VEVAY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2022-OR-3, passed 8-29-2022
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service,
2022 Acts, Pamphlet No. 3
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application of future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Vevay Town Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances”, or “code” may be substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
(Ord. 2-2021, passed - -)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
(Ord. 2-2021, passed - -)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION FOR FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(Ord. 2-2021, passed - -)
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously-existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously-existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted, or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered
by the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only, and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only, and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(Ord. 2-2021, passed - -)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent
or context of this provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words inputting joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of such persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving such authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. Except when otherwise provided, the time within
which an act is required to be done shall be computed by excluding the first
day and including the last day, unless the last day be Sunday or a holiday, in
which case it shall also be excluded.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. The County of Switzerland County, Indiana.
      ET SEQ. The Latin phrase meaning “and the following”.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      I.C. Shall refer to state law found in the Indiana Code.
      LAW. Denotes applicable federal law, the constitution and statutes of the
state, the ordinances of the town, and, when appropriate, any and all rules and
regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
      MAY. Permissive.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      MUST and SHALL. Mandatory.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation or declaration in all cases in which, by
law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words
SWEAR and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words of AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, tenants by the entirety, of the whole,
or a part of such building or land.
      PERSON. Extends to, and includes, person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes money, goods, chattels, things in action, and
evidences of debt.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring the sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street or highway, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school
yard, or open space adjacent thereto, and any lake or stream.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      STREET. All streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts, squares,
places, curbs, or other public ways in the town which have been, or may
hereafter be, dedicated and open to public use, or such other public property
so designated in any law of this state.
      SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by the state’s planning and
development laws, including a fee interest, a life estate, a future interest, a
present possessory interest, or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applies to a building or land, and shall include any
person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole, or a part
of, such building and land, whether alone or with others.
      TOWN. The Town of Vevay, Indiana, or the area within the territorial
limits of the town, and such territory, outside of the town over which the town
has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any unconditional or statutory
provision, including any annexed areas.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Includes printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(Ord. 2-2021, passed - -)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended, or
its application to any person or circumstances, is held invalid, the invalidity
does not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid
section or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division, or part of every section, is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with, and
so dependent upon, the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable, as provided in division (B) above, does not affect the operation of
the division (B) above with respect to that act.
(Ord. 2-2021, passed - -)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever, in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Ord. 2-2021, passed - -)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are, or were, transferred to a different entity; then such named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which such duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(Ord. 2-2021, passed - -)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word, or words, necessary to express attention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word, or words, to which no meaning
can be attached; or the use of a word, or words, when another word, or words,
was clearly intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected
in such word, or words, supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with
the manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though
the correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of such error.
(Ord. 2-2021, passed - -)
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time, or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
(Ord. 2-2021, passed - -)
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any penalty,
forfeiture, or liability incurred under such section, unless the repealing
section so expressly provides.
   (C)   Such section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the
purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of
such penalty, forfeiture, or liability.
(Ord. 2-2021, passed - -)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; But all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code has not been
enacted.
(Ord. 2-2021, passed - -)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, shall remain in full force
and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(Ord. 2-2021, passed - -)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed,
and a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in
its place.
   (B)   Any ordinance, which is supposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section, shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof, as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
(Ord. 2-2021, passed - -)
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the rest of the code section.
   (B)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates that
the text of the section reads substantially the same as a statute. If a
statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text of
the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information.
(Ord. 2-2021, passed - -)
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws enforced prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws. This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (B)   The liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties, or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted. In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize
highway rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the
acceptance, establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of
corporate officers shall remain valid in all respects as if this code had not
been enacted.
(Ord. 2-2021, passed - -)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the term “violation of this code”
means any of the following:
      (1)   Doing and act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an
offense, a violation, or a misdemeanor by ordinance, rule, or regulation
authorized by this section;
      (2)   Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by
ordinance, or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance; or
      (3)   Failure to perform an act if the failure is prohibited or is made
or declared unlawful, an offense, a violation, or a misdemeanor by ordinance,
or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
   (B)   The term does not include the failure of a town officer or own
employee to perform an official duty unless it is specifically provided that
the failure to perform the duty is to be punished as provided in this section.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance:
      (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500 for a first offense and a
fine not to exceed $7,500 for a second or subsequent offense, unless the
violation is of an ordinance that regulates traffic or parking. In such cases,
the fine may not exceed the sum of $2,500; and
      (2)   With respect to violations of this code of ordinances that are not
continuous with respect to time, each violation is a separate offense.
   (D)   The imposition of a penalty does not prevent the suspension or
revocation of a license, permit, franchise, or other administrative sanctions.
   (E)   Violations of this code of ordinances that are continuous with respect
to time are a public nuisance and my be abated by injunctive or other equitable
relief. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent injunctive relief.
   (F)   The imposition of a penalty does not prevent suspension or revocation
of a license, permit, franchise, or other administrative sanctions.
(Ord. 2-2021, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see I.C. 36-1-6-1 et seq.
   Limitations on penalties, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(9) and I.C. 36-1-3-8(10)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Boundaries
§ 11.01 BOUNDARIES.
   The following is a complete definition and declaration of the entire
corporate limits of the town: Beginning in the centerline of State Road 56, 300
feet west of the intersection of State Road 129 and State Road 56; thence north
34 degrees 00 minutes west and parallel to State Road 129, 910 feet to the
centerline of a creek; thence north 56 degrees 00 minutes east 230 feet to east
870 feet to an existing fence corner; thence north 54 degrees 00 minutes east
along an existing property and fence line 1,420 feet to an existing fence
corner; thence north 32 degrees 00 minutes west along an existing property and
fence line 550 feet to a point; thence north 39 degrees 00 minutes east 1,110
feet to an existing fence line; thence north 50 degrees 30 minutes east 4,390
feet to a point being 500 feet northwest from the centerline of State Road 56;
thence south 38 degrees 30 minutes east 400 feet to a point, said line being
northwest of, and perpendicular to, the centerline of Seminary Street; thence
north 47 degrees 30 minutes east 780 feet to a point, said line being northeast
of, and parallel to, the centerline of State Road 56; thence south 56 degrees
00 minutes east 1,000 feet and along a creek to the northeast right-of-way
corner of the intersection of Seminary Street and York Street, said point being
970 feet northwest of the centerline of State Road 156; thence north 51 degrees
00 minutes east 1,254 feet to an existing fence corner; thence south 38 degrees
30 minutes east 932 feet along an existing tree line to a point on the north
right-of-way line of State Road 156, said way being 99 feet wide, said point
being 1,230 feet (measured along the north right-of-way line of said road) east
of the east right-of-way line of York Street; thence north 50 degrees 00
minutes east 315 feet along the north right-of-way of said road to a point;
thence south 40 degrees 00 minutes east 99 feet to an existing steel fence post
on the south right-of-way line of said road; thence continuing south 40 degrees
00 minutes east 732 feet to a point; thence south 50 degrees 00 minutes west
1,563 feet parallel with the centerline of State Road 156 to an existing fence
line; thence south 40 degrees 00 minutes east 1,030 feet along an existing
fence line to the low water mark of the Ohio River; thence south 61 degrees 00
minutes west 9,300 feet with the meanderings of the low water line of the Ohio
River to a point 300 feet west of State Road 129 if extended to the river;
thence north 34 degrees 00 minutes west 820 feet to the centerline of State
Road 56 and the place of beginning, said line being west of, and parallel to,
State Road 129, if extended. Containing 628 acres.
(Prior Code, § VIII.2)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
34.   FINANCES AND TAXATION
      
35.   GENERAL TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Election districts; abolished
§ 30.01 ELECTION DISTRICTS; ABOLISHED.
   Pursuant to state law, the town legislative body districts are abolished in
the town, and all members of the legislative body will be elected at large by
the citizens of said town.
(Ord. 14-92, passed 11-4-1992)
CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
Section
Appointed Officials
   
31.01   Clerk-Treasurer; payment authorization
   
31.02   ADA Coordinator
General Employee Policies
   
31.15   Retirement benefits for employees
   
31.16   Conflict of interest; nepotism
   
31.17   Internal control standards
Substance Abuse Policy
   
31.30   Pre-employment substance screening
   
31.31   Employee responsibilities
   
31.32   Substance screening for current employees
   
31.33   Consequences of sale, distribution, or use of illegal substances
   
31.34   Use of medication and prescription drugs
   
31.35   Confidentiality
APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.01 CLERK-TREASURER; PAYMENT AUTHORIZATION.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is authorized to issue payment for the
obligations of the town listed below in advance of a meeting of the Town
Council:
   (A)   Utilities bills of the town;
   (B)   Payroll and payroll taxes for employees of the town;
   (C)   Insurance for the town;
   (D)   Postage for the town;
   (E)   Credit card expenses charged for official town business; and
   (F)   Emergency expenditures for the water, sewer, and police departments of
the town.
(Ord. passed 1-4-2021)
§ 31.02 ADA COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The ADA Coordinator shall be the individual that holds the position of
Project Manager for the town.
   (B)   Members of the public, including individuals with disabilities and
groups representing individuals with disabilities, are encouraged to submit
suggestions to the ADA Coordinator on how the town might better meet the needs
of individuals with disabilities pursuant to this stated policy.
   (C)   The town hereby adopts the following internal grievance procedure,
found in §
35.02, providing for prompt and equitable resolution of complaints alleging,
and action prohibited by, the U.S. Department of Justice regulations
implementing Title II of the Americans with Disabilities which states, in part,
that “no otherwise qualified individual shall, solely by reason of such
disability, be excluded from the participation in, be denied the benefits of,
or be subjected to discrimination” in programs or activities sponsored by the
town.
(Prior Code, § XIII.1)
GENERAL EMPLOYEE POLICIES
§ 31.15 RETIREMENT BENEFITS FOR EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   PERF Hybrid Plan or PERF My Choice: Retirement Savings Plan.
      (1)   If you are a new employee and your employer chooses to participate
in PERF, you have 60 days from your date of hire to choose between two
retirement options:
         (a)   PERF Hybrid Plan (Defined Benefit (DB) plus a Defined
Contribution (DC)); or
         (b)   PERF My Choice: Retirement Savings Plan (DC plan).
      (2)   If you do not choose within 60 days, you will be defaulted to the
plan that your employer has chosen as the default plan. If your employer does
not participate in the PERF My Choice Plan, you will be enrolled into the PERF
Hybrid Plan.
      (3)   (a)   Note: the State of Indiana has chosen PERF Hybrid Plan as the
default plan. If your position is not with the state of Indiana, the default is
whatever plan your employer has chosen as the default.
         (b)   Your election, or default, is irrevocable so be sure to make an
informed decision within the 60-day election period.
   (B)   Eligibility.
      (1)   Your employer chose to join PERF and decided which positions would
be covered under the PERF Plan.
      (2)   You qualify for PERF when you begin working in a position your
employer covers with PERF benefits.
      (3)   If you are an employee of the state and you are not statutorily
assigned to another pension fund (or excluded from coverage), or you are an
employee (who is not excluded from coverage) of a participating local
government that offers hybrid or both and are working in a covered position,
you have the option to become a member of the PERF Hybrid Plan or the PERF My
Choice: Retirement Savings Plan (formerly the ASA Only Plan).
      (4)   For a position to be PERF-covered, making you eligible for
membership, the position must be:
         (a)   A non-excluded position as noted in I.C. 5-10.3-7;
         (b)   Specified in a resolution passed by the employer's governing
body; or
         (c)   Not covered by another public retirementor pension plan (except
Social Security or the Prosecuting Attorneys' Retirement Fund (PARF),
established by I.C. 33-39-7-9).
      (5)   For details about the PERF My Choice: Retirement Savings Plan,
refer to the PERF My Choice: Local Government Employees Member Handbook or the
PERF My Choice: State Employees Member Handbook.
(Ord. passed 12-11-2000; Ord. passed - -)
Editor’s note:
   The town is a member of the Indiana Public Retirement System/Public
Employees’ Retirement Fund (INPRS/PERF) and should follow their guidelines
related to employee retirement benefits.
§ 31.16 CONFLICT OF INTEREST; NEPOTISM.
   (A)   The town finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the town, and in
contracting with the town, in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective
July 1, 2012, known as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   On July 1, 2012, the town shall have a Nepotism and a Contracting with
a Unit by a Relative policy that complies with the minimum requirements of I.C.
36-1-20.2 (hereinafter “Nepotism Policy”) and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter
“Contracting with a Unit by a Relative Policy”) and implementation will begin
on said date.
   (C)   The town’s Nepotism Policy is hereby established effective July 1,
2012 by adopting the minimum requirements provision of I.C. 36-1-20.2, and
including all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from
time to time, and making them apart hereof as if fully set out herein.
   (D)   The town’s Contracting with a Unit by a Relative Policy is hereby
established effective July 1, 2012 by adopting the minimum requirements
provision of I.C. 36-1-21, and including all future supplements and amendments
thereto which become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if
fully set out herein.
   (E)   The town finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements that are “more stringent or detailed”, and
that more detailed are necessary.
   (F)   The town further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement, or a performance evaluation without prior authority of a majority
of the body, and therefore, without such authority by the majority, he or she
will not be in the direct line of supervision. (See I.C. 36-4-6-11 and I.C. 36-
5-2-9.4.)
   (G)   The town finds that a single member of governing bodies with authority
over employees in the town cannot act for the governing body to make work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement, or a performance evaluation
without prior authority of a majority of the body when statue provides that a
majority is needed to act, and therefore, without such authority by the
majority, the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision.
   (H)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this section, and demonstrating compliance with the same policies.
   (I)   Failure to abide by, or cooperate with, the implementation,
compliance, and certifications connected with the Nepotism Policy is a
violation and may result in the discipline, including termination, of an
employee or a transfer from the direct line of supervision or curative action.
An elected or appointed official of the town who fails to abide by, or
cooperate with, the implementation, with the compliance, and with the mandated
certifications, of either the Nepotism Policy or the Contracting with Unit by a
Relative Policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (J)   Failure to abide by, or cooperate with, the implementation,
compliance, and certifications connected with the Contracting with Unit by a
Relative Policy is a violation, and may result in the discipline, including
termination, of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed
official of the town who fails to abide by, or cooperate with, the
implementation, with the compliance, and with mandate certifications of either
the Nepotism Policy or the Contracting with Unit by a Relative Policy, may be
subject to action allowed by law.
   (K)   (1)   The policies created by this section are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions:
         (a)   Posting a copy of this section in its entirety in at least one
of the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices
to its employees;
         (b)   Providing a copy of this section to its employees and elected or
appointed officials;
         (c)   Providing or posting a notice of adoption of this section; and/
or
         (d)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the
policies established by this section to its employees and elected and appointed
officials.
      (2)   Upon taking any of these actions, these policies are deemed
implemented by the town.
   (L)   Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, and as supplemented or
amended, are on file in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer for the town for
public inspection as maybe required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Prior Code, § X.2)
§ 31.17 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   The town adopts, as policy, the internal control standard as set forth by
the State Board of Accounts Uniform Internal Control Standards for State
Political Subdivisions manual, as expressly written and published by the State
Board of Accounts in September 2015, as amended from time to time. In order to
implement these standards, there is established an Internal Control Standards
Oversight Committee. This Committee will consist of a Town Council member and
the Town Clerk-Treasurer. All officers, elected officials, and employees are
required to comply with the policy. Employees who fail to comply with this
policy are subject to discipline, including, but not limited to, termination of
their employment.
(Prior Code, § X.3)
SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY
§ 31.30 PRE-EMPLOYMENT SUBSTANCE SCREENING.
   (A)   All applicants for full-time positions with the town are required to
submit to a medical examination prior to their appointment to a town position.
As part of this medical examination, prospective employees will be screened for
a range of chemical substances. Said chemical substances shall include, but not
be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Amphetamine/methamphetamine (for example, speed);
      (2)   Benzodiazepines (for example, valium, librium, dalmane, or ativan);
      (3)   Barbiturates (for example, am barbital, butbarbital, pentobarbital,
or phenobarbital);
      (4)   Cocaine;
      (5)   Methadone;
      (6)   Methaqualone (for example, quaalude);
      (7)   Opiates (for example, codeine, heroin, or morphine);
      (8)   Phencyclidine (also known as PCP);
      (9)   THC (marijuana and other cannabanoids); and
      (10)   Alcohol.
   (B)   These drug groups were selected based upon known abuse in the town and
surrounding areas, and the ability of each drug to adversely affect physical
and mental performance. All of the above listed controlled substances are
illegal under state and federal law.
   (C)   At the time of the medical examination applicants for full-time
employment will be told of the substance or controlled substance and alcohol
screening and will be required to sign a consent form. Applicants who refuse to
consent to substance screening, or who attempt to tamper with screening
samples, will not be eligible for employment with the town.
   (D)   An applicant whose initial substance screen shows a positive result
will have said result confirmed by additional studies.
      (1)   If the second screen of the same sample shows a negative result,
the individual will not be disqualified from town employment on account of the
substance screen. If the second test confirms the positive test result, the
applicant may be disqualified from consideration for town employment. The
applicant will be notified of the positive results from the second screen and
be given the opportunity, at the applicant’s expense, to have a third screen
conducted on the same sample within 72 hours after the applicant is notified of
the results of the second screen.
      (2)   If this final screen again confirms the positive test result, the
prospective employee will be disqualified from employment with the town. All
screens will be made on the same sample by a firm selected by the town. An
applicant whose test shows positive result will have 24 hours after receiving
such notification of positive tests results to provide verification of a
current valid prescription in the applicant’s name.
(Prior Code, § X.1)
§ 31.31 EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Employees who have a substance abuse problem are expected to obtain
treatment and counseling through community mental health or a treatment center
approved by the town. Information on the employee’s visit will be reported to
the supervisory personnel of the employee’s work department only upon the
approval of the employee. Given the importance of maintaining a work
environment without the presence of alcohol and drugs, and the opportunities
that employees have to address substance dependencies through treatment and
counseling programs offered through various treatment facilities, substance
abuse which adversely affects job performance will not be tolerated. This
applies to on duty employees as well as employees who are on call.
   (B)   Employees whose on or off duty use of substances impacts job
performance will be appropriately disciplined including, but not limited to,
the sanction of termination from employment with the town.
   (C)   EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES include, but are not necessarily limited to,
the following:
      (1)   An employee must not report to work or be subject to duty while his
or her ability to perform job duties is impaired due to alcohol or illegal drug
use, on or off duty;
      (2)   An employee shall not possess or use, or have the odor of alcohol
or illegal drugs on his or her breath during working hours, on breaks, during
meal periods, while on town property in an official capacity, or while
operating any town vehicle or machinery;
      (3)   An employee shall not directly, or through a third party, sell or
provide illegal drugs or alcohol to any person, or to any other employee while
either or both employees are on duty, or on call;
      (4)   An employee shall submit immediately to reasonable request for
alcohol or drug analysis when requested by a first line supervisor and/or
department head; and
      (5)   An employee shall notify his or her supervisor, before beginning
work, when taking any medication or drugs, prescriptions or non-prescription,
which may interfere with the safe and effective performance of duties or
operations of town equipment, and provide within 24 hours of request a current
valid prescription of any drug or medication identified when a drug screen/
analysis is positive. The prescription must be in the employee’s name.
(Prior Code, § X.1)
§ 31.32 SUBSTANCE SCREENING FOR CURRENT EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Town employees are subject to substance screening if there is a
reasonable suspicion that while on duty that they are impaired. IMPAIRMENT is
defined as being unable to perform their duties safely and completely due to
the use of alcohol and/or controlled substances. REASONABLE SUSPICION is a
belief based on objective facts sufficient to lead a reasonably prudent person
to suspect that an employee is under the influence of drugs or alcohol so that
the employee’s ability to perform the functions of the job is impaired, or so
the employee’s ability to perform his or her job safely is reduced.
   (B)   Observations which constitute a factual basis for determining
reasonable suspicion may include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Odor of alcoholic beverage upon the employee’s breath;
      (2)   Erratic behavior;
      (3)   Violent mood swings;
      (4)   Excessive absenteeism;
      (5)   Repeated tardiness;
      (6)   Inability to walk a straight line;
      (7)   Open and obvious possession of alcohol and/or illegal controlled
substances;
      (8)   Slurred speech; and/or
      (9)   An accident which is caused by the apparent action, or inaction, of
the employee under circumstances giving rise to a reasonable inference that the
accident was caused, or was a result of, the use of alcohol and/or illegal
controlled substances.
   (C)   A supervisor who has reasonable suspicion that an employee is impaired
by alcohol or other illegal controlled substances on the job will, with the
approval of the department head, immediately arrange for a substance screening
through the Town Hall personnel. If such a screening is required after normal
business hours, the supervisor will make direct contact with the medical
facility that has been designated to perform such screening for the town.
Employees who are scheduled for a substance screening must be transported to
the designated medical facility by the employee’s first line supervisor and/or
department head. The testing for substances will be made on a sample provided
at the clinic. The procedures for such sample collection and testing will be
made based upon the medically accepted procedures developed by the chosen
medical facility and, in order to ensure results of tests, no less than a
highly sensitive methodology shall be utilized. Such testing shall be based on
medically acceptable testing procedures, and shall include, but not necessarily
be limited primarily to, tests utilizing enzyme amino acid techniques followed
up by more specific confirmation testing, such as gas chromatography (GC) or
gas chromatography/mass spectrophotometer (GCMS), or other highly sophisticated
methods which are accepted by the medical facility and/or by the courts. After
the sample is given as outlined above, the supervisor will see to it that the
employee is safely transported home. In addition for alcohol testing, the
facilities at the County Sheriff’s Department and the use of the Department’s
Intoxilizer 5000 shall be a sufficient determination for blood alcohol content;
provided statutorily approved procedures are followed.
   (D)   At the testing as outlined above, if the sample provides a negative
result the conclusion will be that the sample contains no alcohol and/or a
controlled substance. However, if the first screen shows a positive result, and
a second screen using a more sophisticated testing technique shows a positive
result, then the employee will be assumed to be under the influence of alcohol
and/or illegal controlled substances. An employee whose test shows a positive
result will have 24 hours after receiving notification of the positive result
to provide a bona fide and verified current valid prescription which may have
caused the positive result. The prescription must be in the employee’s name.
The discipline for being under the influence of alcohol and/or non-prescribed
controlled substances will be the basis for appropriate employee sanctions,
including the sanction of termination. Such determination will be made on the
basis of the employee’s prior work related history, previous disciplinary
actions, and any prior identification of substance abuse problems. An employee
who receives a positive result in substance abuse screening will receive, at a
minimum, a three-day suspension without pay. Employees who refuse to submit to
a substance screen when reasonable suspicion of substance abuse has been
identified will be disciplined as outlined above. In addition to the
disciplinary procedures as outlined above, and if an employee substance abuse
problem has been identified, the supervisor and/or department head will
immediately refer the employee to Community Mental Health Center for evaluation
and treatment as recommended. Based on the determination of the designated
personnel, to be designated by the Town Council, the employee may be required
to undergo a drug/alcohol evaluation and treatment program as a condition of
continued employment.
(Prior Code, § X.1)
§ 31.33 CONSEQUENCES OF SALE, DISTRIBUTION, OR USE OF ILLEGAL SUBSTANCES.
   The sale, distribution, and/or use of illegal substances by an employee
while on duty, or during lunch breaks and other breaks, or at anytime while he
or she is on the town’s work site or on town working time, constitutes cause
for dismissal. Appropriate law enforcement agencies will be notified of any
such sale, distribution, and/or use of illegal substances by employees.
(Prior Code, § X.1)
§ 31.34 USE OF MEDICATION AND PRESCRIPTION DRUGS.
   All employees who are using a prescription or non-prescription drug which
may, in any way, impact their job performance must notify their supervisor. The
town personnel director, department head, and/or supervisor may require a
doctor’s statement if the employee indicates that there is need to use the
prescription drug for an extended period of time.
(Prior Code, § X.1)
§ 31.35 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   The confidentiality of laboratory reports or test results shall appear
in employee’s confidential file. Reports or test results may be disclosed to
town department heads and supervisors on a strictly need to know basis, and to
the tested employee upon request.
   (B)   Disclosures without employee consent may also occur when:
      (1)   The information is compelled by law or by judicial or
administrative process;
      (2)   The information has been placed at issue, and there is a formal
dispute between the employer and employee;
      (3)   The information is to be used in administering any employee benefit
plan; and
      (4)   The information is needed by medical personnel for the diagnosis or
treatment of the employee who is unable to authorize such disclosure.
(Prior Code, § X.1)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
County Area Plan Commission
   
32.01   Membership
   
32.02   Terms of certain members
   
32.03   Appointment of citizen members; terms, removal
   
32.04   Vacancies
COUNTY AREA PLAN COMMISSION
§ 32.01 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-204 and 36-7-4-207,
membership of the County Area Plan Commission shall hereafter consist of a
total of nine members as set forth herein.
   (B)   Six county representatives designated as follows:
      (1)   The County Superintendent of Schools, or a representative appointed
by him or her who is a resident of the unincorporated area of the county;
      (2)   The County Agricultural Agent;
      (3)   The County Surveyor;
      (4)   Two citizen members who are residents of the unincorporated area of
the county, appointed by the County Executive; and
      (5)   One citizen member who is a resident of the unincorporated area of
the county, appointed by the County Fiscal Body.
   (C)   Two town representatives designated as follows:
      (1)   One member of the Town Council appointed by the Town Council; and
      (2)   One citizen member who is a resident of the town appointed by the
Town Council.
   (D)   One representative appointed by the Town Council of the Town of
Patriot, who may be either a member of the Town Council or a citizen member who
is a resident of the Town of Patriot.
(Prior Code, § IX.1)
§ 32.02 TERMS OF CERTAIN MEMBERS.
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-217, the term of
office of a member of the County Area Plan Commission, who is appointed from
the membership of a legislative body, is coextensive with the members term of
office on the Town Council, unless that Council appoints, at its first regular
meeting in any year, another to serve as its representative.
   (B)   In the event a representative is appointed by the Superintendent of
Schools, the term of office of that member is coextensive with the term of
office of the Superintendent of Schools; provided that in no event shall the
term of the member exceed four years, unless reappointed by the Superintendent
of Schools.
(Prior Code, § IX.1)
§ 32.03 APPOINTMENT OF CITIZEN MEMBERS; TERMS, REMOVAL.
   (A)   The appointments of any citizen members shall accompany the passage
and approval of this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   The initial term of the citizen members of the County Area Plan
Commission shall be as set forth herein:
         (a)   If a citizen member is appointed by the Town Council of Patriot:
one year;
         (b)   The citizen member of the Town of Vevay: two years;
         (c)   The citizen members appointed by the County Executive: three
years and four years; and
         (d)   The citizen member appointed by the County Fiscal Body: four
years.
      (2)   Each member’s term expires on the first Monday of January of the
first, second, third, or fourth year, respectively, after the year of the
member’s appointment. (See I.C. 36-7-4-218(e).)
   (C)   When an initial term of office of a citizen member expires, each new
appointment of a citizen member is for a term of four years. A member serves
until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. A member is eligible for
reappointment. (See I.C. 36-7-4-218(a).)
   (D)   In accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-218(f), the
appointing authority may remove a member from the County Area Plan Commission
for cause. The appointing authority must mail notice of the removal, along with
written reasons for the removal, to the member at his or her residence address.
A member who is removed may, within 30 days after receiving notice of the
removal, appeal the notice to the County Circuit Court. The Court may, pending
the outcome of the appeal, order the removal or stay the removal of the member.
(Prior Code, § IX.1)
§ 32.04 VACANCIES.
   If a vacancy occurs among the members of the County Area Plan Commission,
the appointing authority shall appoint a member for the unexpired term of the
vacating member. (See I.C. 36-7-4-220.)
(Prior Code, § IX.1)
CHAPTER 33: PUBLIC SAFETY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
33.01   Establishing reserve police officers
   
33.02   Inspection of residents’ vehicles; fee
§ 33.01 ESTABLISHING RESERVE POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Appointment. The Town Council may appoint as many reserve police
officers as is reasonable to protect the citizens of the town. All said reserve
police officers appointed by the Town Council will be subject to the personnel
plan established by, and for, the town and all other rules and regulations as
is contained herein.
   (B)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   Reserve police officers may not be members of the regular Police
Department, but will have all the same police powers and duties as regular
members, with the exception that reserve officers will have jurisdiction only
within the state, unless in pursuit.
      (2)   Reserve officers will fill in for regular police officers when on
vacation or sick leave, and reserve officers may be utilized when extra man
power is needed.
      (3)   Reserve officers will serve the public and uphold the laws of the
United States of America, the state, and the town.
      (4)   Reserve officers are not eligible to participate in any pension
program provided for regular members of the Police Department.
   (C)   Qualifications.
      (1)   Upon appointment, a reserve office must complete immediate
instruction proper procedure and documentation requirements.
      (2)   There will be a minimum probationary period of 365 days, during
which time a reserve officer must fulfill the following requirements:
         (a)   Complete the State Law Enforcement Academy Pre-Basic Course; and
         (b)   Be trained by a field training officer for 12 weeks.
(Prior Code, § V.1)
§ 33.02 INSPECTION OF RESIDENTS' VEHICLE; FEE.
   (A)   The Town Council has determined that it is in the best interests of
the town to charge a fee for the physical inspection of a state resident’s
vehicle by a town police officer.
   (B)   A fee of $5 shall be charged and collected for each physical
inspection of a state resident’s vehicle by a town police officer, and that
funds collected pursuant to this section be deposited in the local Law
Enforcement Continuing Education Fund, established by I.C. 5-2-8-2.
(Prior Code, § V.3)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCES AND TAXATION
Section
Fees and Schedules
   
34.01   Sale of burial plot; perpetual care fees
Taxation
   
34.15   Income tax rates
Fund Policies
   
34.30   Electronic fund transfers; online banking
FEES AND SCHEDULES
§ 34.01 SALE OF BURIAL PLOT; PERPETUAL CARE FEES.
   (A)   Sale of burial plot and care for cemetery fees.
      (1)   There shall be established, for the sale of burial lots in the town
cemetery, a charge of $600 per burial lot. Baby graves, however, shall be at a
charge of $350 per burial plot.
      (2)   From said burial lot charge, a percentage of said charge will be
set aside for the perpetual maintenance of said town cemetery, pursuant to the
“Ordinance to Establish Perpetual Maintenance Fees for the Vevay Cemetery”,
which is in effect at the time of this section and any amendments thereto.
      (3)   There shall be established, for services rendered for cemetery care
by the town, the following charges:
         (a)   For opening and closing Monday through Friday, a charge of $550;
         (b)   The Town Council has a policy of having no funerals on the
weekends. However, in the event that a weekend funeral cannot be avoided, the
charge for opening and closing for Saturday will be $600, and for Sunday will
be $650; and
         (c)   The charge for opening and closing on a holiday will be $650,
and $350 for baby graves. Holidays, for which this fee will apply, include:
            1.   New Year’s Eve;
            2.   New Year’s Day;
            3.   Martin Luther King Jr. Day;
            4.   President’s Day;
            5.   Good Friday;
            6.   May Election Day;
            7.   Memorial Day;
            8.   Labor Day;
            9.   Columbus Day;
            10.   November Election Day;
            11.   Veteran’s Day;
            12.   Thanksgiving Day;
            13.   Day after Thanksgiving Day;
            14.   Christmas Eve; and
            15.   Christmas Day.
(Prior Code, § VII.2)
   (B)   Perpetual care fees. The Town Council finds it to be in the best
interest of the town and its citizens that a designated amount be established
to be taken from the fees received from the sale of burial lots, and set aside
for the perpetual care and maintenance of said town cemetery.
      (1)   From every burial lot sold from the town cemetery, 30% of the total
fee paid for every burial lot shall be set aside for the perpetual care and
maintenance of said town cemetery.
      (2)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be charged with the responsibility
for setting aside said percentage and depositing said monies in the existing
perpetual care fund.
(Prior Code, § VII.1)
TAXATION
§ 34.15 INCOME TAX RATES.
 
Allocation Rate Category          Existing LIT Rate Proposed LIT Rate
Certified shares (I.C. 6-3.6-6-4) 0.01%             0.01%
Public safety (I.C. 6-3.6-6-4)    0.00%             0.0025%
 
(Ord. 10-23-2020-1, passed 10-23-2020)
FUND POLICIES
§ 34.30 ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS; ONLINE BANKING.
   (A)   Automatic clearing house (ACH) transactions. ACH transactions are
hereby authorized for the Town Clerk-Treasurer to make certain payments via
ACH. Authorized payments are payroll, bonds, and payments for any other bill.
Also authorized are any funds received via ACH.
   (B)   Electronic funds transfers (EFT) including online transfers. The Town
Council authorizes the use of online transfers for the purpose of transferring
funds.
   (C)   Documentation. The Town Clerk-Treasurer is required to maintain
adequate documentation of the above-referenced transactions for future audits,
as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2021)
CHAPTER 35: GENERAL TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   Use of Town Hall
   
35.02   Grievance procedure
   
35.03   Shelter rentals
§ 35.01 USE OF TOWN HALL.
   (A)   The Town Council is responsible to the citizens of the town and for
protection and proper use of the Town Hall.
   (B)   The Town Hall will be available for use by groups and/or
organizations, upon application and approval by the Town Council, under the
following rules and regulations:
      (1)   The time or nature of use shall not interfere with the regular
business of the town or its Police Department. The regular business of the town
and/or its Police Department has priority over all other requests for use;
      (2)   The use of the building will be strictly confined to the area(s)
designated or indicated on the permit. All areas used must be left in
satisfactory condition, suitable for regular use;
      (3)   There is to be at least one representative of the town, approved by
the Town Council in advance, during any uses of the first floor of the Town
Hall;
      (4)   The individual signing the application form, or another designated
adult representative of the applicant, shall be in attendance throughout the
hours and dates of usage, and shall be responsible to the town for the proper
conduct of the meeting and proper care of the facilities, pursuant to these
rules;
      (5)   No food or refreshments, and no food service equipment, shall be
brought into the building without written permission accompanying the approval
of the building use application;
      (6)   Drinking, using, or possessing intoxicants, or gambling in the Town
Hall is specially prohibited;
      (7)    No furniture or equipment shall be used or moved without express
approval on the permit;
      (8)   No nails, screws, scotch tape, or other materials may be used in or
on the floor, walls, curtains, woodwork, blinds, window glass, or equipment
without written approval on the permit;
      (9)   Smoking is prohibited except in designated areas, approved by the
Town Council;
      (10)   The use of obscene or profane language shall not be permitted on
the premises;
      (11)   The Town Council assumes no responsibility for personal belongings
of those conducting or attending meetings;
      (12)   The users shall assume full responsibility and shall reimburse the
Town Council for damages or theft to the buildings and grounds or equipment
during their use of the Town Hall;
      (13)   Each organization/group assumes full responsibility for, and
assumes all liability for, damage which may arise in case of any accident that
may occur during the occupying of the Town Hall. The renter shall furnish the
Town Council with a full written report of such accidents including names of
witnesses;
      (14)   No buying or selling of products or services is allowed, and no
admission fees may be charged by the users;
      (15)   Use applications shall be made to the Town Clerk-Treasurer. After
determining that the applicant is qualified, the Town Hall is available and the
intended activity is in accordance with these rules and regulations, the Town
Clerk-Treasurer shall forward the application to the Town Council for final
approval;
      (16)   Applications should be submitted at least three weeks in advance
of the use date;
      (17)   A fee of $25 will be charged to those groups and/or organizations
that wish to use the Town Hall on a one-time basis. An annual fee of $25 will
be charged for the use of the Town Hall to those organizations that use the
Town Hall on a regular basis. Checks to be made payable to the town. The Town
Council may waive said fee by Board action; and
      (18)   The Town Hall will not be rented on Sundays.
(Prior Code, § II.8)
§ 35.02 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Before filing a grievance, a complainant may seek informal resolution
by contacting the appropriate town department supervisor. If the informal
concern is not resolved in a timely fashion, persons may file a formal
grievance under this procedure. Grievances are to be filed as soon as possible,
within 60 calendar days of the alleged discrimination.
   (B)   The grievance must be in writing on the town’s grievance form; the
grievance form is available at Town Hall.
   (C)   If assistance is needed in completing the grievance form, assistance
will be provided upon request. Contact the ADA Coordinator for assistance.
   (D)   Once the grievance form is completed, it can be mailed to, or hand
delivered to, the following address: ADA Coordinator, Town Hall, 305 Walnut
Street, Vevay, IN 47043.
   (E)   (1)   After receiving the grievance, the ADA Coordinator will
investigate the alleged discrimination within 30 calendar days. The
investigation may include the complainant and any other person(s) the ADA
Coordinator believes to have relevant knowledge concerning the grievance. The
ADA Coordinator may also consider any written evidence submitted.
      (2)   After completing the investigation, the ADA Coordinator will review
the factual information gathered and present the grievance and his or her
findings to the Board of Public Works and Safety at their next scheduled public
meeting. The ADA Coordinator will inform the complainant of the meeting date,
time, and location so that the complainant may attend if he or she wishes.
      (3)   After the Board of Public Works makes a decision regarding the
grievance, the ADA Coordinator will then provide the complainant a written
response within 14 calendar days of the Board of Public Works meeting.
   (F)   If the complainant is not satisfied with the written response, he or
she may submit an appeal within 21 calendar days of receipt of the response.
All appeals must be submitted in writing to the Board of Public Works and
Safety at the following address: Town Hall, 305 Walnut Street, Vevay, IN 47043.
Within 30 calendar days after receipt of an appeal, the ADA Coordinator will
meet with the complainant to discuss a resolution. Within 21 calendar days
after that meeting, the ADA Coordinator will respond with a final resolution.
If the complainant is not satisfied with the results of the appeal, he or she
may file a complaint with the appropriate agency or department of the state or
federal government. Contact the U.S. Department of Justice for information
about how to file a complaint with these agencies (www.ada.gov). Using this
grievance procedure is not required prior to pursuing any of the other
remedies. However, in the interest of a prompt and amicable resolution of the
grievance, the town encourages the complainant to use this procedure in
addition to any other available alternatives he or she may chose.
(Prior Code, § XIII.1)
§ 35.03 SHELTER RENTALS.
   Rental fees for park shelters within the town shall be as follows:
   (A)   Jennings Park and Baird Park: $25; and
   (B)   Ogle Park: $100.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   SEWAGE
      
52.   GARBAGE, COLLECTION, AND DISPOSAL
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Utility Regulatory Commission; removal
Conservation of Water
   
50.15   Application
   
50.16   Declaration of need
   
50.17   Exceptions
   
50.18   Voluntary conservation
   
50.19   Mandatory conservation
   
50.20   Rationing
   
50.21   Notice
Waterworks Rates
   
50.35   Rates
   
50.36   Minimum charge per month
   
50.37   Other charges
   
50.38   Non-metered rates
   
50.39   Meter installations
   
50.40   Water rates for the Firth Addition
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 UTILITY REGULATORY COMMISSION; REMOVAL.
   (A)   The town is no longer in need of the regulation of its water utility
by the State Utility Regulatory Commission due to high and unnecessary costs,
and time related delays for approval of rates, charges, and evidences of
indebtedness and other matters.
   (B)   I.C. 8-1.5-3-9.1 grants certain state municipal and town utilities the
power to remove themselves from the jurisdiction of the Commission for approval
of rates, charges, and evidences of indebtedness by the adoption of an
ordinance by the Town Council.
   (C)   The town wishes to remove its municipal water utility from the
jurisdiction of the State Utility Regulatory Commission, hereinafter referred
to as “Commission”.
   (D)   This section shall apply to the Town Municipal Water Utility.
(Prior Code, § XI.4)
CONSERVATION OF WATER
§ 50.15 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall apply to all persons, firms, partnerships, companies,
associations, corporations, or organizations of any kind connected to the Town
Municipal Public Water System, or using water therefrom (hereafter “users”).
(Prior Code, § XI.3)
§ 50.16 DECLARATION OF NEED.
   Upon determining that the Town Municipal Public Water System is in imminent
danger of a shortage of water, the governing body shall declare a water
conservation emergency and establish the appropriate conservation measures and
the duration thereof.
(Prior Code, § XI.3)
§ 50.17 EXCEPTIONS.
   The governing body of the town reserves the right to establish alternative
rationing requirements for the following:
   (A)   Health care providers;
   (B)   A reasonable use of water to maintain adequate health and sanitary
standards; and
   (C)   Those industrial and agricultural activities declared to be necessary
for the public health and well-being.
(Prior Code, § XI.3)
§ 50.18 VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION.
   (A)   In accordance with §
50.21, users shall be requested to reduce water consumption by practicing
voluntary conservation techniques.
   (B)   The governing body suggests reasonable and meaningful actions which
will alleviate existing or potential water shortage.
(Prior Code, § XI.3)
§ 50.19 MANDATORY CONSERVATION.
   In accordance with §
50.21, users shall be prohibited from the water uses listed below, subject to
reasonable terms, times, and conditions as the governing body shall determine:
   (A)   Sprinkling, watering, or irrigating of shrubbery, trees, grass, ground
covers, plants, vines, gardens, vegetables, or any other vegetation;
   (B)   Washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, mobile homes, railroad cars,
or any other type of mobile equipment;
   (C)   Cleaning or spraying of sidewalks, driveways, paved areas, or other
outdoor surfaces;
   (D)   Washing and cleaning of any business equipment or machinery;
   (E)   The filling of swimming pools, wading pools, and ornamental fountains;
and
   (F)   Knowingly allowing leakage through defective plumbing.
(Prior Code, § XI.3)
§ 50.20 RATIONING.
   In addition to the mandatory conservation measures of §
50.19 and in accordance with §
50.21, users shall be limited to water use per the following schedule:
   (A)   Residential use shall be limited to 25 gallons per person per day; and
   (B)   Business, commercial, and industrial users shall be limited to 25% of
the volume of water used during the corresponding month of the preceding year.
      (1)   Business, commercial, or industrial users that were not in business
and operating in the area served by the Town Municipal Public Water System more
than one year prior to the declaration of need shall be restricted to 20% of
the average monthly volume of water used during the number of months such
business, commercial, or industrial user was in business and operating in the
public water supply area.
(Prior Code, § XI.3)
§ 50.21 NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice of voluntary conservation measures shall be by publication in a
local newspaper of general circulation or other means as deemed appropriate by
the governing body.
   (B)   Said notice shall be effective upon publication.
   (C)   Notice of mandatory conservation or rationing shall be by first class
United States Mail or by door to door distribution to each current user, and by
electronic and print media.
   (D)   Said notice shall be deemed effective at the conclusion of door to
door distribution, or at 12:00 p.m. of the third day after depositing same in
the U.S. Mail.
(Prior Code, § XI.3)
WATERWORKS RATES
§ 50.35 RATES.
   There shall be, and there are hereby established for the use of, and the
service rendered by, the waterworks system of the town, the following rates and
charges shall be effective July 1, 2022, based on the use of water supplied by
said waterworks system:
 
Metered Rates per Month Rates per 1,000 Gallons
First 2,000 gallons     $11.16
Next 2,000 gallons      $4.47
Next 3,000 gallons      $2.85
Next 8,000 gallons      $2.21
Over 15,000 gallons     $1.74
Vending machines        $11.16
 
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 8-28-2017; Ord. 2022-OR-2, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 50.36 MINIMUM CHARGE PER MONTH.
   Each service shall be subject to a minimum charge in accordance with the
following applicable size of meter installed, for which the user will be
entitled to the quantity of water set out in the following schedule of minimum
rates:
Meter Size Gallons Min. Rate per Month
Meter Size Gallons Min. Rate per Month
5/8 in.    2,000   $22.32
3/4 in.    3,000   $26.79
1 in.      5,000   $34.11
1 1/2 in.  11,600  $49.98
2 in.      20,000  $66.19
3 in.      46,000  $111.43
4 in.      82,000  $174.07
 
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 8-28-2017; Ord. 2022-OR-2, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 50.37 OTHER CHARGES.
 
Type of Charge                           Charge
After hours or weekend connect           $77.84
After hours service call charge          $50
Hydrant rental                           $149.69 per hydrant
Reconnect fee                            $59.87
Sundays and holidays service call charge $75
 
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 8-28-2017)
§ 50.38 NON-METERED RATES.
   Non-metered and each multiple user served by a single meter shall pay a
Phase I flat monthly rate of $37.60 per user and a Phase II flat monthly rate
of $44.18.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 8-28-2017)
§ 50.39 METER INSTALLATIONS.
   Each user, at the time he or she is connected with the waterworks system,
shall pay a flat charge to cover the costs of: excavating and tapping the main;
furnishing and laying service pipe; furnishing and installing corporation and
stop cocks; and furnishing and installing yoke, meter, and, if outside, meter
crock.
 
Water Tap Fees      Charge
3/4 in. meter tap   $1,200
1 in. meter tap     $2,000
1 1/2 in. meter tap $4,000
2 in. meter tap     $6,000S
 
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 8-28-2017)
§ 50.40 WATER RATES FOR THE FIRTH ADDITION.
   The owner of each lot, parcel of real estate, or building located in Firth
Addition area who will utilize the town’s water utility shall pay, in addition
to all other rates or charges, either:
   (A)   A surcharge in the amount of $1,170, which surcharge shall be paid on
or before the date which is one month after the town has sent notice to the
owners that they may elect to utilize the town’s water utility; provided,
however, in the event an owner elects to utilize the town’s water utility at
any time after the date which is one month after the town has sent notice to
the owners that they may elect to utilize the town’s water utility, said owner
shall pay, in addition to all other rates and charges, a surcharge in the
amount of $1,170 plus interest thereon at the rate of 5% per annum from the
date which is one month after the town has sent notice to the owners that they
may elect to utilize the town’s water utility through the date that the
surcharge is paid in full; or
   (B)   (1)   A monthly surcharge in the amount of $7.72 (“monthly
surcharge”), which monthly surcharge shall commence on the date which is one
month after the town has sent notice to the owners that they may elect to
utilize the town’s water utility, and shall be paid for a period of 240
consecutive months (the “payment period”). In the event an owner elects to
utilize the town’s water utility at any time after the date which is one month
after the town has sent notice to the owners that they may elect to utilize the
town’s water utility, said owners shall be required to:
         (a)   Commence and continue to pay the monthly surcharge through the
remainder of the payment period; and
         (b)   Immediately pay the sum of all monthly surcharges which accrued
between the date which is one month after the town has sent notice to the
owners that they may elect to utilize the town’s water utility and the date on
which the owner’s lot, parcel, or building is connected to the town’s water
utility, plus interest on said sum at the rate of 5% annum on said sum accruing
from, and after, the date which is one month after the town has sent notice to
the owners that they may elect to utilize the town’s water utility up to, and
including, the date of the payment made for this arrearage.
      (2)   In the event the owner makes payments under division (B)(1)(b)
above and subsequently desires to retire the remaining balance of the
surcharge, said owner shall pay the amount which is set forth in an attachment
to the ordinance contained in this section based on the month in which the
remaining balance will be paid in full.
(Prior Code, § XI.2)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any user who violates §§
50.19 or
50.20 may be punished by a fine of not more than $2,500 (see I.C. 36-1-3-8
(10)). Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense. In addition
to, or in the alternative to, a fine, water service may be terminated for any
user who violates §§
50.19 or
50.20.
(Prior Code, § XI.3)
   (C)   If bills for the services rendered in §§
50.35 through
50.39 are not paid within 17 days of the due date, a penalty of 10% shall be
imposed.
(Prior Code, § XI.6)
CHAPTER 51: SEWAGE
Section
Sewer Rates
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   User serviced, charges
   
51.03   Collection
   
51.04   Minimum charges by water meter size
   
51.05   Meters
   
51.06   Sewer rates basis
   
51.07   New connection fee
   
51.08   Sewer flow charges
   
51.09   Deposit
   
51.10   User charge system
   
51.11   Administrative and billing
   
51.12   Sewage rates for the Firth Addition
   
51.13   Grease traps
 
   
51.99   Penalty
SEWER RATES
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Town Council acting as the Municipal Works Board.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). Shall have the same meaning as defined in
the Use Ordinance.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewer wastes with an average strength in excess of normal domestic
sewage.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid, or gaseous substance or form of energy
discharged, permitted to flow into, or enter, the sewage system or ground form
an industrial, manufacturing, commercial, or business process, or from the
development, recovery, or processing of any natural resource carried on by any
person, and shall further mean any waste form an industrial user, but not
including sanitary sewage or stormwater.
   MAY. Permissive.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Discharged by residential users with a BOD
concentration not in excess of 200 milligrams per liter, a suspended solids
concentration not in excess of 200 milligrams per liter.
   NPDES. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System setting forth
conditions for the discharge of any pollutants or combination of pollutants.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. All costs, direct and indirect, necessary
to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport, and treatment on a
continuing basis, and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform with
all related federal, state, and local requirements.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges, and
other identifiable charges other than user charges, debt service charges, and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any natural person or public or private corporation, or any other
entity whatever.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, and/or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of
the sewage works equipment to maintain the capacity and performance for which
such works were designed and constructed.
   SEWAGE. Shall have the same meaning as defined in the Sewer Use Ordinance.
   SHALL. Mandatory.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (S.S.). Shall have the same meaning as defined in the Use
Ordinance.
   TOWN. The Town of Vevay, Indiana.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of such works pursuant to I.C. 8-1-2-89.
   USER CLASSES. The division of sewage treatment customers by source,
function, water characteristics, and process or discharge similarities.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Transient lodging, retail, and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in providing merchandise for personal,
household, or industrial consumption, and/or rendering service to others.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. A user engaged in legislative, judicial, or
administrative activities of federal, state, and local governments such as
courthouses, police and fire stations, town halls, and similar governmental
users.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user who discharges industrial waste as
defined hereafter.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. A publicly or privately-owned school, hospital,
nursing home, prison, or other similar institution whose wastes are segregated
domestic wastes.
      (5)   MULTIPLE USERS. A user who introduces only normal domestic sewage
from multiple-family dwellings, such as duplexes, apartment houses, or
condominiums into the sewage system, and where the quantity of water is
measured by a single meter.
      (6)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user who introduces only normal, domestic
sewage from a single-family dwelling into the sewage system, and where the
quantity of water usage is measured by a single meter, or whose water usage is
not metered in such a manner that adequate measurement is not available to the
sewer utility.
(Prior Code, § XI.5)
§ 51.02 USER SERVICED, CHARGES.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by said sewage utility shall be
charged for the services provided. These charges are established for each user
class, as defined, in order that the sewer utility shall recover, from each
user and user class, revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment
works in terms of volume and load. User charges are levied to defray the cost
of operation and maintenance. User charges shall be uniform in magnitude within
a user class. No free service shall be provided to any user including
governmental. Annexation shall not be a prerequisite for treatment.
   (B)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, published in the Federal Register (40
C.F.R. § 35.2140). Replacement costs, which may be recovered through the system
of user charges, shall be upon the expected service life of the sewage works
equipment.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 8-28-2017)
§ 51.03 COLLECTION.
   For the use of, and the service rendered by, said sewage utility, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate, or building that is connected with the Town Sanitary Sewage
System, or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or
other liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the Town Sanitary Sewage
System. Such rates and charges include user charges, debt service charges,
excessive strength surcharges, and other service charges, which rates and
charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided, and shall be in an amount
determinable as follows:
 
Schedule of Rates and Charges (per 1,000 Gallons)
Amount              Charges
First 3,000 gallons $7.58
Next 7,000 gallons  $6.32
Next 50,000 gallons $4.94
Over 60,000 gallons $3.56
Notes to Table:
Minimum charge (5/8 in. meter - 2,000 gallons): $15.16
Users of non-metered water (monthly flat fee): $30.57
 
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 8-28-2017)
§ 51.04 MINIMUM CHARGES BY WATER METER SIZE.
Meter Minimum Usage (gallons) Minimum Bill
Meter     Minimum Usage (gallons) Minimum Bill
5/8 in.   2,000                   $15.16
3/4 in.   3,200                   $24
1 in.     5,000                   $35.38
1 1/4 in. 8,000                   $54.34
1 1/2 in. 11,600                  $74.88
2 in.     20,000                  $116.38
3 in.     46,000                  $244.82
4 in.     82,000                  $392.30
 
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 8-28-2017)
§ 51.05 METERS.
   (A)   All users with five-eighth inch meter. The minimum charge shall be
$15.16 for the first 2,000 gallons per month. For all usage in excess of 2,000
gallons per month, the charge shall be based upon the Schedule of Rates and
Charges found in §
51.03.
   (B)   All users with larger than five-eighth inch meters. The minimum charge
shall be in accordance with the prescribed schedule. For all usage in excess of
the minimum allowance, the charge shall be based upon the Schedule of Rates and
Charges found in §
51.03.
   (C)   Users of non-metered water. The monthly charge shall be a flat rate of
$30.57 per month.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 8-28-2017)
§ 51.06 SEWER RATES BASIS.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be in proportion to the
service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not only on the
volume, but also on strength and character of the stronger-than-normal domestic
sewage and wastes which it is required to treat and dispose of. The town shall
require the user to determine the strength and content of all sewage and wastes
discharged, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage system, in
such manner and by such method as the town may deem practicable in the light of
the conditions and attending circumstances of the case, in order to determine
the proper charge. The user shall furnish a central sampling point available to
the town at all times. An excessive strength surcharge shall be assessed to
users determined to be contributors of excessive strength, defined as being in
excess of normal domestic sewage strength. Additional charges for treating
stronger-than-normal domestic sewage shall be made on the following basis:
      (1)   For rate surcharge based upon suspended solids, there should be an
additional charge of $0.26 per pound of suspended solids received in excess of
200 milligrams per liter of fluid; and
      (2)   For rate surcharge based upon BOD, there shall be an additional
charge of $0.26 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in
excess of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid.
   (B)   The determination of suspended solids, five day biochemical oxygen
demand, and ammonia nitrogen contained in the waste shall be in accordance with
the latest copy of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water. Sewage and
industrial wastes, as written by the American Public Health Association, the
American Waterworks Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation,
and in conformance with guidelines establishing test procedures for analysis of
pollutants, regulation 40 C.F.R. part 136, published in the Federal Register on
October 16, 1973.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 8-28-2017)
§ 51.07 NEW CONNECTION FEE.
   For each new connection to the sewage system, there shall be assessed to the
user a connection fee of $450.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 8-28-2017)
§ 51.08 SEWER FLOW CHARGES.
   The sewer flow charges shall be based on the quantity of water as measured
by the water meter used on or in the premises subject to such sewer charges.
Charges for unmetered residential users shall be based on the average volume of
metered residential users. Water meters shall be read once each month or at the
option of the Board at other intervals.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 8-28-2017)
§ 51.09 DEPOSIT.
   The town may assess a use deposit on all persons desiring to be connected to
the town sewage system. Said deposit shall be a fixed rate of $50 beginning in
January of 2022 set by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 9-15-1993)
§ 51.10 USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   A user charge system of sewage collection, treatment, and disposal
should accomplish three primary objectives. They are:
      (1)   The charges should be proportional to cost of service among user
groups and within user groups. All users should pay the same except where it
can be established that the cost of providing service is not the same for all
users or for all classes of users;
      (2)   The charges should be sufficient to provide revenues adequate to
pay for the operation and maintenance of the system, the retirement of debt,
and the establishment of reasonable reserves for contingencies; and
      (3)   The user charge system should provide for a surcharge to be based
upon the contribution of strength determined to be stronger-than-normal
domestic strength.
   (B)   The methodology will be that described in the user charge system
developed pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 35.2140.
(Prior Code, § XI.5)
§ 51.11 ADMINISTRATIVE AND BILLING.
   (A)   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewer system and
obtained form sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be
determined by the Board in such a manner as the Board shall reasonable elect,
and the sewage service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates; further,
as is provided by ordinance, the Board may make proper allowances after
determining the sewage billed for quantities of water shown on the records to
be consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of the town that such
quantities do not enter the sanitary sewage system.
      (1)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate,
or buildings discharging sanitary sewage water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and
the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in each such
case for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged for
each users, and the base charge and the flow rates and charges shall apply to
each of the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate, or buildings
served through the single water meter.
      (2)   In the event two or more dwelling units, such as mobile homes,
apartments, or housekeeping rooms, discharging sanitary sewage, water, or other
liquids into the town’s sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly,
are users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a single water
meter, then in such case, billing shall be for a single service in the manner
set out elsewhere herein, except that the minimum bill shall be not less than
the number of such dwelling units times the applicable minimum bill per month,
based on meter size. In the case of mobile home courts, the number of dwelling
units shall be computed and interpreted as the total number of mobile home
spaces available for rent, plus any other dwelling unit’s services through the
meter. A DWELLING UNIT shall be interpreted as a room or rooms, or any other
space or spaces in which cooking facilities are provided.
   (B)   Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed, and collected by the
town in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
      (1)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
      (2)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants
occupying the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the
owner, but such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in
the event payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties
served, which are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to
examine the collection records of the town for the purpose of determining
whether bills have been paid by such tenant or tenants; provided that such
examination shall be made at the office at which said records are kept and
during the hours that such office is open for business.
      (3)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due
are hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The past due date shall be the
fifteenth day of the month after the period of service. Bills will be dated and
mailed each month.
      (4)   The town shall, at least annually, in conjunction with a regular
billing, notify the user of the rates and charges which are attributable to
them.
   (C)   Any user who disputes any billing by the town or Board may file with
the Board a written request and review of consideration within ten days such
billing is received by the user, setting forth in detail the facts supporting
the user’s request for reconsideration. The appeal shall, if reasonably
possible, be heard by the Board within 30 days of the date of filing. Further
appeal is available through the County Circuit Court under appeal procedure
provided under the State Administrative Adjudication Act, being I.C. 4-21.5 and
I.C. 4-22.
   (D)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services shall be in
proportion to the cost of providing services to the various users or user
classes, the town shall, on a biennial basis, cause a study to be performed.
Such study shall include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the costs
associated with the treatment of excessive strength effluents from industrial
users, volume, and delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to the various
users or user classes, the financial position of the sewage works, and the
adequacy of its revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation and
maintenance, replacement, debt service requirements, and capital improvements
to the waste treatment system. The results of said study shall be utilized by
the town to adjust rates as necessary to align revenues with costs. Said
studies shall be conducted by officers or employees of the town or by a firm of
certified public accountants or engineers as the town shall determine to be
best under the circumstances.
   (E)   For service rendered to any department or agency of the town, the town
shall be subject to the sewer charges provided herein.
   (F)   The town shall make and enforce such ordinances, bylaws, and
regulations as may be deemed necessary for the safe, economical, and efficient
management of the town’s sewage system, pumping station, and sewage treatment
works for the construction and use of house sewers and connections to the
sewage system, and for the regulation, collection, rebating, and refunding of
such rates and charges.
(Prior Code, § XI.5)
§ 51.12 SEWAGE RATES FOR THE FIRTH ADDITION.
   The owner of each lot, parcel of real estate, or building located in Firth
Addition area who will utilize the town’s sewage works system shall pay, in
addition to all other rates or charges, either:
   (A)   A surcharge in the amount of $3,090, which surcharge shall be paid on
or before the date which is one month after the town has sent notice to the
owners that they may elect to utilize the town’s sewage works system; provided,
however, in the event an owner elects to utilize the town’s sewage works system
at any time after the date which is one month after the town has sent notice to
the owners that they may elect to utilize the town’s sewage works system, said
owner shall pay, in addition to all other rates and charges, a surcharge in the
amount of $3,090 plus interest thereon at the rate of 5% per annum from the
date which is one month after the town has sent notice to the owners that they
may elect to utilize the town’s sewage works system through the date that the
surcharge is paid in full; or
   (B)   (1)   A monthly surcharge in the amount of $20.39 (“monthly
surcharge”), which monthly surcharge shall commence on the date which is one
month after the town has sent notice to the owners that they may elect to
utilize the town’s sewage works system, and shall be paid for a period of 240
consecutive months (the “payment period”). In the event an owner elects to
utilize the town’s sewage works system at any time after the date which is one
month after the town has sent notice to the owners that they may elect to
utilize the town’s sewage works system, said owners shall be required to:
         (a)   Commence and continue to pay the monthly surcharge through the
remainder of the payment period; and
         (b)   Immediately pay the sum of all monthly surcharges which accrued
between the date which is one month after the town has sent notice to the
owners that they may elect to utilize the town’s sewage works system, and the
date on which the owner’s lot, parcel, or building is connected to the town’s
sewage works system, plus interest on said sum at the rate of 5% annum on said
sum accruing from and after the date which is one month after the town has sent
notice to the owners that they may elect to utilize the town’s sewage works
system up to, and including, the date of the payment made for this arrearage.
      (2)   In the event the owner makes payments under division (B)(1)(b)
above, and subsequently desires to retire the remaining balance of the
surcharge, said owner shall pay the amount which is set forth in an attachment
to the ordinance contained in this section based on the month in which the
remaining balance will be paid in full.
(Prior Code, § XI.1)
§ 51.13 GREASE TRAPS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GREASE TRAPS. A constructed device, and its appurtenant surfaces and
working parts, with the function of removing fats, oils, and grease from
wastewaters before such wastewaters are discharged to town sewers.
      PROHIBITED CONCENTRATION. Discharges of wastewaters from a grease trap in
the town shall not exceed 250 milligrams per liter (total) of fats, oils, and
grease in any sample, whether obtained as a composite or grab sample.
   (B)   Required installation and use of grease traps. Each person or
operating facility within the town, other than a private residence, which will
be used for the manufacture, processing, or preparation of food or food
products must install and use, at his, her, or its own expense, a grease trap
adequate to prevent a discharge of fats, oils, and grease to town sewers in
prohibited concentrations. Any such facility in operation without such grease
trap on the date of enactment of this section shall be required to install and
use such a grease trap within 12 months of enactment.
   (C)   Required maintenance of grease traps.
      (1)   Each person who owns or operates a grease trap as required by
division (B) above shall cause collected or trapped fats, oils, and grease to
be cleaned and removed from such device on a periodic basis and delivered to a
facility authorized to use, treat, or dispose of such material. Such cleanout
and removal shall be accomplished on a monthly basis, unless the town, upon
receipt of proof from the owner or operator or on the basis of its own
inspection of the grease trap, determines that a less or more frequent
maintenance schedule is required to achieve the purposes of this section and to
minimize the discharge of a prohibited concentration of fats, oils, or grease.
      (2)   No fats, oils, or grease removed from a grease trap may be offered
to a person for transportation, nor transported off the site where such
materials were collected, except by a hauler licensed as required by division
(F) below.
   (D)   Prohibition of discharge of fats, oils, and grease.
      (1)   No person shall discharge a prohibited concentration of fats, oils,
or grease into town sewers from a facility required to install and use a grease
trap.
      (2)   No person shall reintroduce or deposit into the town sewers any
fats, oils, or grease which have been removed from the sewer system by grease
traps.
      (3)   No person shall deposit or discharge into the town sewers any fats,
oils, and grease which have been removed from a grease trap or sewer system
outside the town.
   (E)   Prohibition on introduction of enzymes and emulsifiers. No person
shall introduce, nor allow the introduction of, physical, chemical, or
biological agents into grease traps for the purpose of resuspending,
dissolving, emulsifying, or rendering soluble any fats, oils, or grease removed
from a waste water by such grease traps and reintroducing them into the town
sewer system.
   (F)   Permitting of grease haulers.
      (1)   No person shall own or operate a vehicle used to transport fats,
oils, or grease collected from a grease trap, unless that vehicle is validly
permitted by, and is inscribed with such permit numbers issued by, either:
         (a)   The State Department of Agriculture pursuant to ILCS Ch. 225,
Act 610, §§ 9.1 and 9.21 (“scrap and grease permit”); or
         (b)   The town, pursuant to this division (F).
      (2)   Applications for town vehicle permits shall be accepted only from
the record owner of the vehicles, and shall include such owner’s name and
address, the location of the facility at which each such vehicle is garaged,
the number, type, and registration number of vehicles to be used by the
proposed permittee, and a sworn declaration of the facilities to which such
fats, oils, or grease are to be delivered for use, treatment, or disposal.
      (3)   Permits issued hereunder shall be renewed annually and shall expire
on December 31. A fee of $50 per vehicle shall accompany each application for
an original or renewal permit.
   (G)   Requirements for grease haulers.
      (1)   No person may cause or allow the transportation of fats, oils, or
grease away from the grease trap at which such materials were collected, unless
such materials are accompanied by a shipping paper containing the information
prescribed in division (G)(2) below. No specific form of shipping paper is
required, unless the town prescribes and publishes public notice of the
requirement to use a particular form.
      (2)   Each shipping paper shall contain at a minimum the following
information:
         (a)   The name and telephone number of the owner or operator of the
grease trap from which the fats, oils, or grease were collected, the street
address of the grease trap, the volume of fats, oils, or grease and any
associated water removed, the legible signature of an authorized representative
of the owner or operator and the date of the materials removal; and
         (b)   The name, address, agriculture permit number, and telephone
number of the transporter, an acknowledgment of receipt of the collected
materials, the legible signature of an authorized representative of the
transporter, and the date of collection; and
         (c)   The name, street address, and telephone number of the facility
to which the material was delivered for use, treatment, or disposal, the date
and time of delivery, the volume delivered, and the legible signature of an
authorized representative of the transporter verifying the delivery.
      (3)   The grease trap owner or operator and transporter shall retain a
copy of the shipping papers for a minimum of two years, and shall produce the
documents upon request of the town or the owner or operator of the sewage
treatment works to which the town’s sewers are tributary.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
51.13 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50, nor more than $500, for
such violation. Each day the violation continues shall be a separate and
distinct offense.
      (2)   Any person who knowingly makes a false material statement or
representation in any writing required to be prepared under §
51.13 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50, nor more than $500, for
each submission.
CHAPTER 52: GARBAGE, COLLECTION, AND DISPOSAL
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Prohibiting scavenging of recyclables
   
52.02   Brush collection
Trash, Recyclable Service
   
52.15   Definitions
   
52.16   Establishment of service
   
52.17   Trash collection services to be provided
   
52.18   Authorized containers
   
52.19   Requirements for trash collection pick up
   
52.20   Limitations on trash eligible for collection
   
52.21   Fees
   
52.22   Bulky item collection services
   
52.23   Recyclables collection services
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 PROHIBITING SCAVENGING OF RECYCLABLES.
   (A)   When recyclables are placed at curbside for recyclables collection,
within the corporate boundaries of the town, said recyclables then become
subject to the control of the town.
   (B)   After recyclables are placed at curbside for recyclables collection,
only the contractor authorized by the town to collect the recyclables shall be
permitted to take possession of the recyclables from curbside. All other
persons are prohibited from scavenging and taking recyclables from the curbside
collection location.
(Ord. passed 10-5-1994) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 BRUSH COLLECTION.
   (A)   The town provides for curbside collection of residential tree limbs
and branches weekly. To expedite this collection, the town requires the
following:
      (1)   Said material shall be tied in bundles weighing no more than 20
pounds;
      (2)   Said material shall be no longer that four feet in length;
      (3)   Said material shall be six inches in diameter or less; and
      (4)   Said material shall be placed at curbside no sooner than 24 hours
prior to the weekly pickup schedule which will occur on every Monday.
   (B)   This section prohibits the placement of any materials in front of
property that is not owned by the person putting out waste (for example, must
be on your own property).
   (C)   If the brush load is over one truck load, a door tag will be hung and
a fee of $100 will be charged to the customer.
   (D)   Only materials for which comply with these regulations shall be
collected. No materials from landscapers, developers, or other commercial tree
trimmers or other establishments shall be collected at any time.
   (E)   This section shall be enforced by either, or both the Town Police
Department and/or the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § VI.2)
TRASH, RECYCLABLE SERVICE
§ 52.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   RECYCLABLES. Newsprint, aluminum beverage cans, bi-metal and ferrous cans,
Category #1 (polyethylene terepthalate) plastic containers, Category #2 (high
density polyethylene) plastic containers, and clear glass bottles.
   TRASH. Ordinary household waste and garbage, including putrescible and
nonputrescible solid and semi-solid items of waste, except for:
      (1)   Human and animal waste;
      (2)   Liquids;
      (3)   Liquid or water carried wastes which are normally disposed of in
sanitary sewer systems;
      (4)   Hazardous wastes;
      (5)   Building materials;
      (6)   Appliances, furniture, household fixtures, and/or any other similar
bulky items; and
      (7)   Lead acid batteries.
(Prior Code, § VI.1)
§ 52.16 ESTABLISHMENT OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The Town Council shall assume the authority for the collection of
residential trash and recyclables, as defined above, and provide a trash and
recyclables collection service solely for the benefit of, and shall be used
solely by, the residents of the town. The Council shall provide the service
through the use of inter-local agreements, contracts, licensing, franchise
arrangements, or any method it may deem necessary to ensure that a quality
service is provided to the town’s residents.
   (B)   Prior to awarding any contracts for trash collection under this
section, the town shall assure that competitive bids are obtained. Contracts
shall be re-bid periodically to assure competition for providing trash
collection services hereunder. The town reserves the right to award exclusive
franchises for trash collection services. No entity shall contract for, or
perform residential trash collection services for, town residents without prior
approval of the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § VI.1)
§ 52.17 TRASH COLLECTION SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED.
   The town, acting through the Town Council, and in cooperation with the
Southeastern Indiana Solid Waste District, shall provide a curbside or roadside
trash collection service to residents occupying housing units contained in
structures with four housing units per structure or less, and that lie within
the town. Apartment complexes composed of multiple buildings in a common
location and mobile home courts consisting of multiple units in a common
location are not included. Such trash collection services shall be provided on
a designated day of each week. This schedule, however, is subject to change
necessitated by special circumstances, including, but not limited to: holidays;
special events; severe weather; or equipment breakdown. Any changes in this
schedule will be announced by the town, in advance if possible, through the
local news media.
(Prior Code, § VI.1)
§ 52.18 AUTHORIZED CONTAINERS.
   To be eligible for collection, trash must be contained within disposable
plastic bags of one and one half mil thickness. Such bags shall be designed to
hold 33 gallons or less, and each dwelling unit shall be allowed up to five
bags on each pickup day.
(Prior Code, § VI.1)
§ 52.19 REQUIREMENTS FOR TRASH COLLECTION PICK UP.
   Items which are to be picked up pursuant to this trash collection service
shall be placed adjacent to the curb immediately adjacent to the individual’s
residence, within three feet of the curb or traveled portion of the street
prior to 7:00 a.m. on the date scheduled for said collection, but not earlier
than 9:00 p.m. on the date preceding the scheduled collection. No person shall
place any trash on the property of another. No person shall search through,
alter, deform, or remove any items set out for collection.
(Prior Code, § VI.1)
§ 52.20 LIMITATIONS ON TRASH ELIGIBLE FOR COLLECTION.
   To be eligible for collection, all trash must be placed within, and enclosed
within, an eligible container specified above in §
52.18 and the same must be closed and tied tightly; provided, however, that no
eligible container weighing more than 35 pounds will be collected. No person
shall dispose of, for collection, any needles, syringes, lancets, or other
sharp objects unless the same are placed in hard-plastic or metal container
with a screw-on or tightly secured lid. No person shall dispose of, for
collection, any soiled bandages, disposable sheets, or medical gloves unless
the same are placed in a securely fastened plastic bag. Fabric must be wrapped
in plastic.
(Prior Code, § VI.1)
§ 52.21 FEES.
   (A)   Each unit shall be charged a monthly fee of $14.26 for weekly
collection of trash pick up and twice monthly for recycle pick up. Such charge
shall be due and payable 15 days after billing thereof, and subject to a
delinquent charge of 10% if not paid when due.
   (B)   In the event a resident will be leaving his or her residence
unoccupied by any person for a continuous period of not less than 90 days and,
as a result, shall not require pick up, such resident may notify the town, and
during such period shall be entitled to an abatement of the fees normally
charged under this section. The resident must, within five days of the re-
occupancy of his or her residence, after a period of suspension of charges
under this section, notify the town of the date of occupancy and charges, and
pick up shall resume under the normal fee and pick up schedule.
(Ord. 2017-5, passed - -)
§ 52.22 BULKY ITEM COLLECTION SERVICES.
   (A)   Bulky items, excluded from the definition of trash, will be collected
each week along with the town’s trash collection service. All normal large
household items, such as furniture, stoves, water heaters, and other
appliances, will be acceptable; provided that there is a limit of one bulky
item per week. Refrigerators, air conditioners, or other items which normally
contain CFCs (freon) will not be collected unless documentation is provided
that the CFCs have been properly removed. No hazardous materials, lead acid
batteries, tires, or any other items prohibited by federal, state, county, or
local laws or regulations will be accepted.
   (B)   When preparing material for collection by Rumpkee Waste and Recycling
Services, the following guidelines shall be followed.
      (1)   Trash and recycling must be placed curbside the night before the
scheduled day of collection. Drivers may not return to residences if materials
are unprepared at the scheduled collection time.
      (2)   Cans and bags should not exceed 50 pounds. Trash shall not be
placed at the curb in boxes. All boxes should be broken down and bundled.
Rumpke is not responsible for damaged or missing plastic cans or lids.
      (3)   Service recipients shall contact Rumpke at least 48 hours before
their regularly scheduled collection to request a large item pick-up for
acceptable large items, and/or excessive amounts of trash. Television sets
cannot exceed 32 inches for curbside pick-up. Any mattress or upholstered
furniture must be completely sealed in disposable plastic for removal.
Additional fees may apply.
      (4)   Loose shrubbery, lumber, and carpet must be bundled and tied in
lengths no larger than four feet long and two feet wide. Bundles should not
exceed 50 pounds.
      (5)   Freon-containing appliances require special handling procedures
prior to pick-up. Service recipients may contact Rumpke for guidelines.
      (6)   According to federal law, Rumpke is not permitted to accept
batteries, tires, liquids, combustible materials, or any items identified as
hazardous.
      (7)   Bulky materials including drywall, concrete, bricks, dirt, or rocks
are not acceptable.
      (8)   Drums, barrels, and yard and household containers are not
acceptable trash containers and will be assumed trash if placed at the curb.
      (9)   Rumpke is not responsible for damage beyond the curb line.
      (10)   All rules and regulations may vary according to location. Service
recipients may contact Rumpke for any additional questions.
(Prior Code, § VI.1)
§ 52.23 RECYCLABLES COLLECTION SERVICES.
   As part of the services provided by the town, recyclable items, including
newsprint, aluminum beverage cans, bi-metal and ferrous cans, Category #1
(polyethylene terepthalate) plastic containers, Category #2 (high density
polyethylene) plastic containers, and clear glass bottles, shall be collected
twice monthly on the first and third trash collection days of each month. The
recyclables shall be separated into containers of like substances, newsprint in
a separate container and so forth. Containers may be ordinary plastic trash
bags, grocery bags, boxes, or other appropriate containers. Recyclable items
shall contain no free flowing liquids, but need not be free of labels.
Recyclable beverage containers shall have caps and neck rings removed.
(Prior Code, § VI.1)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99 accompanied by a fine of $150.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
52.01, for each such offense, shall be subject to imposition of a fine up at a
maximum of $500, and community service up to 20 hours for the town.
   (C)   Any person(s), after being duly notified, who continues to be in
violation of §
52.02 shall be subject to a $50 fine for the first offense and a $200 fine for
each subsequent offense. Fines are to be assessed by, and made payable, to the
town.
(Prior Code, § VI.2)
   (D)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions
of §§
52.15 through
52.23 shall be guilty of a municipal ordinance violation punishable by a
municipal fine of $50 for the first offense, $200 for the second offense
occurring during the same calendar year, and $50 for each subsequent offense
occurring during the same calendar year.
      (2)   Fines are to be assessed by, and made payable to, the town. All
monies collected under §§
52.15 through
52.23 shall be deposited into the Trash Fund of the town.
      (3)   In addition to the fine imposed by division (C)(1) above for the
violation of any provision of §§
52.15 through
52.23, the householder shall also be liable to the town for all damages and
expenses incurred by the town by reason of such violation in a civil action
brought for such purpose.
(Prior Code, § VI.1)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Use of engine braking devices prohibited
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 USE OF ENGINE BRAKING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      ENGINE BRAKING DEVICE. A compression braking device installed on large
motor vehicles to assist in reduction, or control, of vehicle speed. When
activated, the engine converts from a power source to a power absorber by
converting the engine into an air compressor. These devices are sometimes
called Jacobs, or Jake, brakes, and can emit large pulses of air resulting in
high sound levels.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is propelled or drawn on land by a motor,
whether tracked or wheeled, such as, but not limited to, passenger cars,
trucks, truck-trailers, semi-trailers, and campers.
      MUFFLER. Any device for the abatement of sound emission while permitting
the transfer of gas. A MUFFLER is considered to be in good working order if the
sound reduction is equal to, or greater than, that of the original equipment.
   (B)   Prohibition.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle with an engine braking
device engaged which does not have a muffler in good working order.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle with an engine braking
device engaged within the town unless required for safety.
   (C)   Enforcement. This section shall be enforced by either or both the Town
Police Department and/or the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § II.10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person(s) who are found to be in violation of §
70.01 shall be subject to a $150 fine for first offense and each subsequent
offense. Fines are to be assessed by, and made payable to, the town. All monies
collected under §
70.01 shall be deposited into the fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § II.10)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Parking prohibited at certain locations
   
71.02   Parking at curb
   
71.03   Loading zone
   
71.04   Alleys
   
71.05   Parking prohibited in spaces for disabled persons
   
71.06   Parking of recreational vehicles for longer than three days
   
71.07   Parking of commercial vehicles
   
71.08   Signs
   
71.09   Unauthorized marking
   
71.10   Refusal to move parked or stopped vehicle
   
71.11   Movement or impoundment
   
71.12   Presumption as to illegal parking
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 PARKING PROHIBITED AT CERTAIN LOCATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to be parked or to stand in any
of the following places at any time:
   (A)   In any intersection;
   (B)   In a crosswalk;
   (C)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb, or within 30 feet of a
point of the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone;
   (D)   Within 30 feet of a traffic signal, beacon, or sign on the approaching
side;
   (E)   Within 30 feet of any intersection or crosswalk;
   (F)   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than 18 feet;
   (G)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (H)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway;
   (I)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire department
station, and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any such
station within 75 feet of such entrance when properly sign posted;
   (J)   On any sidewalk or parkway; or
   (K)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
(Prior Code, § II.2) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 PARKING AT CURB.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to stand or park any vehicle on a street other
than parallel with the curb and with a front and back wheel of the vehicle
within 12 inches of the regularly established curb line.
   (B)   Exception: Upon those streets that have been marked for angle parking,
vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by such marks.
(Prior Code, § II.2) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 LOADING ZONE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stand a passenger
vehicle for a period of time longer than necessary for the loading or unloading
of passengers, not to exceed three minutes.
   (B)   Additionally, it shall be unlawful for the driver to stand any freight
carrying vehicles for a period of time longer than is necessary to load,
unload, and deliver materials, not to exceed two hours, in any place designated
as a loading zone and marked as such, or in any of the following designated
places:
   (C)   At any place along the curb before the entrance to any business,
structure, or loading zone which has been marked as a no parking zone; or
   (D)   At any place along the curb before the entrance to a public building
(including churches and schools) which has been marked as a no parking zone;
provided, however, the driver of a bus, taxi, or other vehicle may stop and
park such vehicle in such spaces while receiving or discharging passengers only
as long as the driver thereof is in fact seated at the steering wheel and the
vehicle’s motor is running.
(Prior Code, § II.2) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley.
(Prior Code, § II.2) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPACES FOR DISABLED PERSONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave standing any
vehicle in a stall or space designed for physically handicapped persons if,
immediately adjacent to, and visible from, such stall or space, there is posted
a sign known as the international wheelchair symbol consisting of a profile
view of a stylized wheelchair with the occupant in white on a blue background,
unless the driver of the car is disabled.
   (B)   As used in this section, DISABLED means either having a physical
condition requiring the use of a wheelchair, artificial limb, crutch, cane, or
walker, or having a physical disease making it difficult or impossible to walk
more than 25 feet without shortness of breath or danger of impairment of
health.
      (1)   A certificate by a person licensed to practice the healing arts in
this state shall be acceptance by the town as evidence under this section.
      (2)   A driver of a vehicle used in transporting such handicapped persons
and actually so engaged at the time may park in such spaces.
(Prior Code, § II.2) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 PARKING OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES FOR LONGER THAN THREE DAYS.
   It shall be unlawful to park a boat trailer, motorcycle trailer, snow mobile
trailer, camp trailer, house car, or any other type of recreation vehicle,
whether self-propelled or not, on any street for a period of time longer than
three days without first securing a permit to do so from the Town Hall.
(Prior Code, § II.2) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 PARKING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any trucks licensed for over 7,000 pounds,
construction equipment, or commercial vehicles to be parked or left standing
upon the public streets except for the purpose of loading and unloading such
vehicles, and then only for periods not exceeding two hours. Owners or
operators of any such vehicles desiring to park for a longer period than two
hours for purposes of loading and unloading shall obtain a written permit for
so doing from the Town Hall for which permit no charge shall be made. Trucks,
while being loaded and unloaded, shall, whenever possible, be kept parallel
with the curb, and at all times shall be kept as close to the right-hand curb
as possible.
(Prior Code, § II.2) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 SIGNS.
   (A)   The Town Marshal, or any other person authorized by the Board of
Trustees shall cause the curbs to be painted yellow and signs to be posted in
all areas where parking is limited or prohibited, indicating such limitations
or prohibitions.
   (B)   The painting of a curb yellow shall be notice that no parking is
permitted at any time unless a sign otherwise stating is posted there. In such
instance, the information on the sign shall be controlling.
(Prior Code, § II.2)
§ 71.09 UNAUTHORIZED MARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone not so authorized by the Board of Trustees
to post any signs, place any barricades, or paint any curbs which are intended
to, or have the effect of creating the impression that parking there is limited
or prohibited by the town.
(Prior Code, § II.2) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 REFUSAL TO MOVE PARKED OR STOPPED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or operator of any vehicle to refuse
to move a vehicle otherwise lawfully parked or stopped when so requested by a
police officer or the operator of an emergency vehicle (for example, an
ambulance, firefighting apparatus, utility department truck, snow plow, and the
like) while discharging his or her duties as such operator.
(Prior Code, § II.2) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 MOVEMENT OR IMPOUNDMENT.
   The Town Marshal, Fire Chief, the Superintendent of Utilities, any town
police officer, and all persons authorized to enforce the laws and ordinances
of the town may cause any vehicle unlawfully parked and any vehicle though
otherwise lawfully parked, but which in the particular situation (for example,
parade, fire, ruptured utility line, snow, and the like) is in danger itself,
or interferes with coping with the situation, to be moved and/or impounded
without prior notice to the owner and at the expense of the operator or owner.
(Prior Code, § II.2)
§ 71.12 PRESUMPTION AS TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   In regards to any violation of this chapter governing the standing or
parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle described in the
pleadings was parked in violation of such chapter, together with proof that the
defendant named in such pleadings was, at the time of such violation, the
registered owner of such vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a prima facie
presumption that such registered owner of such vehicle was the person who
parked or placed such vehicle at the point where, and for the time during
which, such violation occurred.
(Prior Code, § II.2)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, wherever in this chapter an act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful, or the doing of an act is
required, or the failure to do an act is declared to be unlawful, the violation
of any provision of this chapter shall result in a fine of $50, to be assessed
by, and made payable to, the town. All monies collected under this chapter
shall be deposited into the fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § II.2)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles, Mopeds, Skateboards, Roller Blades,
Roller Skates, Golf Carts, UTVs
   
72.01   Purpose
   
72.02   Traffic laws, control
   
72.03   Riding on streets or sidewalks
   
72.04   Speed and safety
Golf Carts and Utility Vehicles
   
72.15   Purpose
   
72.16   Definitions
   
72.17   Operations
   
72.18   Street crossing
   
72.19   Duty to stop
   
72.20   Responsibility
   
72.21   Parental responsibility
   
72.22   Impoundment
   
72.23   Registration form
 
   
72.99   Penalty
BICYCLES, MOPEDS, SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER BLADES,
ROLLER SKATES, GOLF CARTS, UTVS
§ 72.01 PURPOSE.
   The regulations of this subchapter are applicable to bicycles, mopeds,
skateboards, roller skates, and roller blades and shall apply whenever operated
on any street, sidewalk, highway, or path in the town.
(Prior Code, § II.1)
§ 72.02 TRAFFIC LAWS, CONTROL.
   (A)   Every person riding a bicycle, moped, skateboard, roller skates, or
roller blades on a street or highway shall be granted all the rights and shall
be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by the
laws of this state or by the traffic ordinances of this town applicable to the
driver of a vehicle.
   (B)   Any person operating a bicycle, skateboard, roller skates, or roller
blades shall obey the instructions of official traffic control signals, signs,
and other control devices applicable to vehicles.
(Prior Code, § II.1)
§ 72.03 RIDING ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle, moped, skateboard, roller skates, or
roller blades on a street or highway shall ride as near to the right side of
the street or highway as practicable, exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles, mopeds, skateboards, roller skates, or roller
blades on a street shall not ride more than two abreast.
   (C)   No person shall ride a bicycle, moped, skateboard, roller skates, or
roller blades on a sidewalk within the Central Business District, which shall
be designated as a rectangular area from Main Cross Street, Walnut Street, and
Market Street to Seminary Street.
   (D)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle, moped, skateboard, roller
skates, or roller blades on a sidewalk other than the Central Business
District, the person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian, and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing a pedestrian.
   (E)   No person shall ride a gas or electric transporter or vehicle on a
sidewalk at any time.
(Prior Code, § II.1)
§ 72.04 SPEED AND SAFETY.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle, moped, skateboard, roller skates,
or roller blades at a speed greater than is reasonable under the conditions
then existing.
   (B)   The operator of a bicycle, moped, skateboard, roller skates, or roller
blades emerging from an alley, driveway, or building shall, on approaching a
sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yield the right-
of-way to all pedestrians, and on entering the roadway shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
   (C)   No person operating a bicycle or moped shall carry any article which
prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand on the handlebars.
(Prior Code, § II.1) Penalty, see §
72.99
GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY VEHICLES
§ 72.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the operation of golf carts
and utility vehicles within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 72.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ALLEY. Any dedicated public way affording secondary means of access to
abutting property.
   GOLF CART. Any motorized vehicle designed for travel primarily on a golf
course, steered by wheels.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on, and to control the operation of a golf cart or
utility vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a golf
cart or utility vehicle.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The portion of a street or highway less the roadway and any
shoulders.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway ordinarily used for vehicular
travel.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   UNQUALIFIED OPERATOR. Any person operating a golf cart or utility vehicle
who does not possess a valid driver’s license and does not carry proof of
liability insurance, and must be 16 years of age.
   UTILITY VEHICLE. A motor driven utility vehicle, such as a mule. Such
vehicles are required to have a bench seat or side-by-side bucket seats and a
steering wheel.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 72.17 OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Within the town, no golf cart or utility vehicle shall be operated:
      (1)   That is not equipped with operating headlights and taillights, if
operated after dark;
      (2)   That is not insured for liability coverage;
      (3)   Except in a single file, with the flow of traffic, and at the far
right-hand side of the alley, street, or highway being traveled, in groups no
larger than four vehicles;
      (4)   In a careless or reckless manner, or in any way that endangers any
person or any property;
      (5)   At a rate of speed greater than the posted speed limits, and in no
event greater that 30 miles per hour;
      (6)   By anyone under the influence of intoxicating liquor or any
controlled substance, or by anyone whose ability to operate said golf cart or
utility vehicle may be impaired thereby;
      (7)   By an unqualified operator, as that term is defined in this
subchapter; and
      (8)   Without the standard reflective “Slow Moving Vehicle” triangle.
   (B)   Beginning January 1, 2022, all golf carts operated on the town streets
shall be registered with the town and bear a registration sticker. The town
shall collect a $25 fee per year for said registration.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 72.18 STREET CROSSING.
   All golf carts and utility vehicles shall come to a complete stop before
proceeding, at right angles, across any public sidewalk, alley, street,
highway, or intersection. All golf carts and utility vehicles shall yield the
right-of-way to cars, trucks, and pedestrian traffic. Towing of sleds,
toboggans, or other such devices occupied by people is prohibited.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 72.19 DUTY TO STOP.
   (A)   Upon request or signal of a police officer, a golf cart or utility
vehicle operator shall immediately stop the golf cart or utility vehicle in a
safe place and outside of the flow of traffic.
   (B)   If the police officer directs that the golf cart or utility vehicle be
removed from the streets, the operator shall take such vehicle home and park
it.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 72.20 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The operator of a golf cart or utility vehicle involved in any accident
resulting in any property damage, personal injury, or death shall report such
accident to the local police immediately.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 12-19-2016) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.21 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   Any parent or guardian who knowingly permits or allows any minor to operate
a golf cart or utility vehicle in violation of any provision of this subchapter
shall be in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 12-19-2016) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.22 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   A law enforcement officer may impound any golf cart or utility vehicle
used or operated in violation of any provision of this subchapter for a period
not to exceed 30 days, and the owner or operator of the golf cart or utility
vehicle shall be responsible to pay for all costs involved in the storage and/
or removal of the impounded golf cart or utility vehicle.
   (B)   If the operator of the impounded golf cart or utility vehicle is not
the owner, the law enforcement officer shall notify the owner of such
impoundment by telephone, letter, or personal contact as soon as practical, but
within 24 hours.
   (C)   The golf cart or utility vehicle used by any unqualified operator may
be impounded by the order of any police officer of the Town Police Department
for a period not to exceed 30 days and, in addition, the unqualified operator
shall also be subject to the same penalties set forth herein.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 72.23 REGISTRATION FORM.
Town of Vevay
305 Walnut St.
Vevay, IN 47043
Golf Cart Registration
Permit Number:
                                                                                                              
Year Valid:
                                                                                                                    
Owner Name:
                                                                                                                 
Address:                                                    
                                                                                                                              
Insurance Co.:
                                                                                                                 
Year:
                                                                                                                              
Make:
                                                                                                                             
Color:
                                                                                                                             
Serial Number:
                                                                                                                 
Owner Signature:
                                                                       Date:
                               
Employee Signature:
                                                                   Date:
                              
Registration fee:
$25.00      Cash                           Check                     
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
72.01 through
72.04 may be fined $50. Said fine to be assessed by, and made payable to, the
town. All monies collected under §§
72.01 through
72.04 shall be deposited into the fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § II.1)
   (C)   Any violation of any provision of §§
72.17,
72.18,
72.19,
72.20, and
72.21 shall constitute a violation of the Town of Vevay Town Code. An owner,
lessee or operator may be cited to appear in court of competent jurisdiction by
issuance of an Indiana uniform traffic ticket. Upon a finding by such court
that an owner, lessee or operator of a golf cart has violated any provisions of
§§
72.17,
72.18,
72.19,
72.20, and
72.21, such person shall be subject to a find of $25 for the first offense, $50
for the second offense, not less than $100 for the third offense and in any
event not to exceed $200 for each offense along with court costs.
(Ord. 2016-001, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2022-OR-3, passed 8-29-2022)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop signs
      
II.   One-way streets
SCHEDULE I. STOP SIGNS.
Streets or Location Location(s) of Stop Signs
Streets or Location                  Location(s) of Stop Signs
Arch Street and Seminary Street      Four-way stop at the corners
Brindley Street and Woodfill Street  Four-way stop at the corners
Cedar Street and Pike Street         Four-way stop at the corners
Dupraz Street and Pike Street        Three-way stop at the corners
Dupraz Street and Seminary Street    Three-way stop at the corners
Exit from the IGA parking lot        At the point where the exit intersects
                                     with Swiss Avenue
Ferry Street and Market Street       Four-way stop at the corners
Greeley Avenue and Seminary Street   Three-way stop at the corners
Jackson Street and Walnut Street     Four-way stop at the corners
Main Cross Street and Jackson Street Three-way stop at the corners
Main Cross Street and Pike Street    Four-way stop at the corners
Main Street and Market Street        Three-way stop at the corners
Ohio Street and Seminary Street      Three-way stop at the corners
Pike Street and Pearl Street         Three-way stop at the corners
Pike Street and Vineyard Street      Four-way stop at the corners
Pike Street and Walnut Street        Four-way stop at the corners
York Street                          Three-way stop at the corners
Silver Street and Seminary Street    Three-way stop at the corners
Vineyard Street and Market Street    Three-way stop at the corners
 
(Ord. 1-88, passed 7-6-1988; Ord. 1-90, passed 10-3-1990; Ord. passed 9-18-
1991; Ord. 2-93, passed 7-21-1993; Ord. 3-94, passed 5-18-1994; Ord. passed 6-
5-1996; Ord. passed 6-5-1996; Ord. passed 9-18-1996; Ord. passed 6-17-1998;
Ord. passed 1-20-1999; Ord. passed 1-20-1999; Ord. passed 10-20-1999; Ord.
passed 3-13-2000; Ord. 4002, passed 4-8-2002; Ord. 9-02, passed 9-22-2002)
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS.
 
One-Way Starting Point                            One-Way Ending Point
Kirk Works Way, east to west from Ferry Street    Walnut Street
Liberty Street, northbound from Main Street       Pike Street
Walnut Street, south to north from Kirk Works Way Franklin Street
 
(Ord. passed 9-6-1995; Ord. 4-03, passed 4-28-2003)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION; CEMETERIES
      
93.   PARADES AND SPECIAL EVENTS
      
94.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Common law, statutory nuisances
   
90.03   Certain conditions declared nuisances
   
90.04   Maintaining premises free of nuisances
   
90.05   Abatement
   
90.06   Means of appeal
   
90.07   Violations
   
90.08   Waiver
   
90.09   Street cleaning; yard waste
Open Burning
   
90.20   Exceptions
   
90.21   Exceptions with prior approval
   
90.22   Requirements for exceptions
 
   
90.99   Penalty
NUISANCES
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
      (1)   Any motor vehicle parts which are left on public or private
property within the town limits under circumstances indicating a desertion,
relinquishment, non-use, or divestment of the vehicle.
      (2)   In accordance with town regulations and I.C. 9-13-2-1, a vehicle is
determined to be abandoned if it falls under any of the following:
         (a)   Parked on public property, including an easement, and has not
been moved for three consecutive days;
         (b)   Mechanically inoperable, meaning it cannot be started and
legally driven (e.g., flat tires, no battery, no drive train, broken windows,
or the like); or
         (c)   License plate is expired or not registered to the vehicle, or
has no plate at all.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. Any building other than a dwelling.
   DANGEROUS DISREPAIR. Dangerous or detrimental to life or health due to want
or lack or repair, defects in drainage systems, sewage systems, plumbing
systems, or due to lighting, ventilation, or construction deficiencies, or due
to infection with contagious disease, infestation with vermin, rodents, or
insects, or due to the existence of unsanitary conditions likely to cause
sickness among occupants of the dwelling or adjoining properties.
   DWELLING. Any building or part of a building, or its premises, used as a
place of residence or habitation and/or sleeping by any person that is in the
town limits.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
   LITTER. Rubbish, refuse, waste material, offal, paper, glass, cans, bottles,
trash, debris, or any foreign substance of whatever kind or description,
whether it is of value which is not contained or disposed of in accordance with
the Town Council.
   NUISANCE. Public nuisance or health hazard.
   OBNOXIOUS GROWTH. Any unkept grass and weed growth exceeding eight inches in
height.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and non-putrescible solid waste (except body waste)
including, but not limited to, garbage, rubbish, street cleanings, dead
animals, abandoned motor vehicles, machines, or other similar scrap or salvage
materials, or industrial waste.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed - -)
§ 90.02 COMMON LAW, STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this subchapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of the state as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as provided in
this subchapter, or in accordance with any other provision of law.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed - -)
§ 90.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED NUISANCES.
   (A)   The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Dwellings that are in dangerous disrepair which are visible from
any public roadway;
      (2)    Any dwelling, accessory building, house, or other structure
visible from any public roadway that is so out of repair and dilapidated such
that it constitutes a fire hazard or such that it is liable to communicate
fire, or which, due to inadequate maintenance or neglect, endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners and occupants of adjacent property;
      (3)   An accumulation or dumping on any premises of garbage, litter,
refuse, or other waste material which endangers the public health, welfare, or
safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful enjoyment by owners or
occupants of adjacent property because of the danger of said material catching
or communicating fire, or of said material attracting or propagating vermin,
rodents, or insects, or of said material blowing into any highway, road,
street, sidewalk, or adjoining property;
      (4)   (a)   Abandoned vehicles, abandoned mobile home trailers intact
and/or stripped, boat trailer, portable boat docks, motorcycle trailer,
snowmobile trailer, camp trailer house car, or any other type of recreation
vehicle, whether self-propelled, motor or not, other appliances, devices, or
machinery;
         (b)   Any parking or storage of abandoned vehicles, as defined herein,
or any other junked, inoperative, partially dismantled, or wrecked automobiles,
vehicles, machines, or similar scrap or salvage materials, on any private or
public property within an area of high population density for a period of time
which exceeds 30 days, except as otherwise permitted or authorized by law. This
provision includes refrigerators, stoves, washers, dryers, or any other machine
or appliance or salvage materials except as may be otherwise permitted or
authorized by law;
      (5)   Any parcel of land consisting of six acres or less containing
obnoxious growth; and
      (6)   Any condition that endangers public health or that creates or
causes a health hazard.
      (7)   Any signs for yard/garage type sales must be removed within 24
hours after sale;
      (8)   Animals or fowl, except:
         (a)   Pet dogs, cats and birds within the town limits;
         (b)   Fowl being kept in the facilities used by and on behalf of 4-H;
         (c)   Chicken hens that are kept for the production of eggs and housed
in a sanitary, dedicated chicken coop that provides a minimum of four square
feet of space for each hen; and
      (9)   Dogs which by loud or frequent barking, howling or yelping cause
annoyance or disturbance to the citizens of the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant, or person having control
or management of any land covered under this subchapter to permit public
nuisance or health hazard to develop thereon, or to fail or refuse to correct
and remedy a public nuisance or health hazard that may exist on any land that
they may own, occupy, control, or manage.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, business, or organization to
place, leave, dump, or accumulate any garbage, refuse, or litter on any
property or in any building subject to this subchapter so as to cause, allow,
or afford harborage for vermin, rodents, or insects, or which creates a health
hazard or public nuisance.
   (D)   No person, business, or organization shall operate, or cause to be
operated, any automobile, vehicle, machinery, or material recycling
establishment, scrap or salvage operation, or any other place of business that
fails to comply with all County Zoning Regulations and all state statutes.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 MAINTAINING PREMISES FREE OF NUISANCES.
   (A)   The maintenance of a litter-free environment at all construction and
demolition sites shall be the responsibility of the owner(s), contractor(s),
and subcontractor(s) thereof.
   (B)   All owners and lessees of loading and unloading docks shall maintain
those docks to prevent the accumulation and circulation into the environment of
refuse, garbage, and litter.
   (C)   All owners and tenants of private dwellings shall maintain those
premises to prevent the accumulation and circulation into the environment of
refuse, garbage, and litter, as well as the accumulation of obnoxious growth.
   (D)   All owners and tenants of vacant lots shall maintain the premises to
prevent the accumulation and circulation into the environment of refuse,
garbage, and litter, as well as the accumulation of obnoxious growth.
   (E)   All owners and tenants of public and private parking lots shall
maintain the premises to prevent the accumulation and circulation into the
environment of refuse, garbage, and litter, as well as the accumulation of
obnoxious growth.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed - -)
§ 90.05 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Abatement.
      (1)   Upon expiration of the seven-day notice period (and any subsequent
appeal, if filed), the town may proceed at once to cause the nuisance to be
abated and charge the cost thereof against the owner and/or occupant of said
property.
      (2)   The liability created herein shall be joint and severe as to the
owners and occupants or tenants, and shall include any attorneys’ fees incurred
as part of collection.
   (B)   Abatement procedure.
      (1)   In addition to any other remedies or penalties available under the
law, the following procedures may be utilized for the abatement of nuisances.
         (a)   Any personnel so designated by the town and/or the County
Commissioners shall be responsible for serving notice upon the owner, occupant,
and/or person having control or management of any land, subject to the
provisions of this subchapter, of any violation or violations of the provisions
of this subchapter, and to demand that the violation or violations be abated
within seven days of said service unless the violation constitutes an immediate
danger to the health or well-being of the community.
            1.   In the event that the violation or violations constitutes an
immediate danger to the health or well-being of the community, the demand for
abatement shall require the violation or violations be abated within 24 hours
of said service.
            2.   Notice shall be served by personal service or certified mail.
However, if the address of the owner, occupant, and/or person having control or
management of the subject property cannot be ascertained in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, the designated person appointed by the town or the County
Commissioners, or other designated personnel, shall make an affidavit to that
effect and service may be made by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation for two consecutive publications. In addition to newspaper
publication, a copy of the notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
subject premises.
         (b)   In the event that the owner, occupant, and/or person having
control or management of the subject property fails to abate any violation or
violations within the time periods contained herein, the town may proceed to
abate the violation.
            1.   The town may utilize independent contractors to assist in
abating any violations of this subchapter.
            2.   Any person or persons utilized by the town to abate any
violation of this subchapter shall have full access to the subject property
with all necessary personnel, machinery, and equipment.
            3.   The town shall keep records detailing all costs incurred in
order to abate the nuisance with the owner, occupant, and/or person having
control or management of the subject property being responsible to the town for
those costs.
         (c)   In the event the town abates any violation or violations of the
provisions of this subchapter, the town shall obtain a lien upon the subject
property for all costs and expenses incurred as a result thereof including, but
not limited to, all costs for labor, equipment, fuel, oil, attorneys’ fees,
filing fees, publication fees, court costs, and any other costs or expenses
incurred in the enforcement of the lien and any foreclosure action resulting
therefrom.
         (d)   In the event that the owner, occupant, and/or person having
control or management of property subject to a lien pursuant to this subchapter
fails to reimburse the town of all costs and expenses incurred by the town in
abating a violation or violations within 30 days of the violation having been
abated, the town or its designated representative may file a statement of lien
claim with the County Clerk and Recorder.
            1.   The statement of lien claim shall contain the legal
description for the subject property, the amount of the costs and expenses
incurred by the town related to the abatement of the violation or violations as
of the date filing, the lien amount claimed by the town, and the date that the
nuisance was abated.
            2.   Notice of the statement of lien claim shall be mailed to the
owner, occupant, and/or person having control or management of the property
subject to the lien if that person or persons’ address is known.
            3.   Failure to record the notice of lien statement or to mail said
notice to the owner, occupant, and/or person having control or management of
the property subject to the lien, or the failure of the owner, occupant, and/or
person having control or management of the property subject to the lien shall
not affect the town right to proceed with a foreclosure action.
         (e)   All property subject to a lien for unpaid nuisance abatement
expenses and costs shall be sold for nonpayment and the proceeds from such sale
shall be applied to pay all costs and expenses incurred by the town in abating
said nuisance after deducting costs.
      (2)   All foreclosure actions brought pursuant to this subchapter shall
be in equity and in the name of the town.
   (C)   Abatement of nuisances.
      (1)   Whenever a complaint is made that a public nuisance exists or has
existed within the town, the Town Marshal shall inspect, or cause to be
inspected, the premises and shall make a written report of its findings.
Whenever practicable, the Town Marshal shall include photographs in his or her
report.
      (2)   Whenever the Town Marshal determines that a nuisance exists, a
notice of violation and demand for abatement shall be given to the owner or the
person or persons responsible for the property, including, but not limited to,
any tenant. The town will take enforcement action only with the owner or
responsible party at the time the violation is identified.
      (3)   Such notice shall be in writing, include a description of real
estate sufficient for identification, include a statement or the violation or
violations and section(s) of the code violated and why the notice is being
issued; include a correction order allowing a reasonable amount of time, of at
least seven days (excepting cases of emergency or safety concerns), from the
time when the notice is served, to abate the nuisance, and include a notice
containing the right to appeal the determination to the Town Council.
      (4)   When an official finds that a condition existing on a property
qualifies as an emergency or safety concern as defined herein the official
shall include on the notice of correction order a statement indicating such a
finding and allowing a period of time of not less than 24 hours to abate the
nuisance.
      (5)   When an official has reason to believe that there is a property
maintenance or servicing company monitoring a given property on behalf of a
bank holding mortgage rights to property, or a corporate operator, the official
may provide duplicate notice to said property maintenance or servicing company.
Providing additional notice under this section shall not eliminate any notice
requirement for the owner or responsible party of the property, and shall not
render the property maintenance or servicing company liable for failure to
abate unless otherwise provided in this subchapter.
      (6)   Notice shall be deemed to be properly served if a copy is sent by
certain return receipt mail, hand delivered by an employee of the town, or by
leaving a copy of the notice at the location of the property in a conspicuous
location and mailing a copy of the notice by first class mail to the last known
address of the person to whom notice must be given.
      (7)   If an initial notice of violation was provided, a continuous
abatement notice may be posted at the property at the time of abatement instead
of by equivalent service. A continuous abatement notice shall serve as notice
to the real property owner and/or responsible party that each subsequent
violation during the same year for which the initial notice of the violation
was provided may be abated by the municipality or its contractors.
   (D)   Fees and collection. In the event the town shall cause to be abated a
nuisance on any property, then as compensation of the town for its services in
causing the abatement, the owner and/or occupant shall be charged the following
fees:
      (1)   Twenty-five dollars for each inspection necessary to determine
compliance;
      (2)   Fifty dollars for determining private property ownership when
necessary;
      (3)   Twenty dollars for each time a first class letter is written to the
occupant or owners;
      (4)   Fifty dollars per man hour, or fraction thereof, for labor
necessary to abate the nuisance;
      (5)   Seventy-five dollars per machine hour, or fraction thereof, for
each piece of equipment used in abating the nuisance;
      (6)   The actual costs of all material and parts used in abating the
nuisance; and
      (7)   The work is performed by an independent contractor, the owner/
occupant shall be required to reimburse the town for all such costs.
(Ord. 1-2021, passed - -; Ord. 3-2021, passed - -)
§ 90.06 MEANS OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Appeal to Town Council. Any person aggrieved by determination of the
Town Marshal to the effect that a notice of violation or order served is in
error, or should, due to hardship, be modified or be entitled to a variance
from enforcement, or that a reasonable extension of time for the compliance
should be granted upon the grounds of a demonstrated case of hardship and
evidence of an actual undertaking to correct the violation, together with a
legitimate intent to comply with a reasonable time period, may appeal to the
Town Council for rescission of the notice or order, or for a modification,
variance, or extension of time for compliance.
   (B)   Procedure and hearing. A request for rescission, modification,
variance, or extension of time shall be made, in writing, to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer, to be placed on the Town Council agenda, within ten days of the
petitioner’s receipt of a copy of the notice or order. The Town Council shall
schedule a hearing within 30 days of receipt of the request.
   (C)   Open hearing. All hearings before the Town Council shall be open to
the public. The petitioner, the petitioner’s representative, the official who
issued the violation, and any persons whose interests are affected shall be
given an opportunity to be heard.
   (D)   Findings. Prior to ruling on an appeal, the Town Council shall make
the following findings:
      (1)   The violator was served with a notice of violation;
      (2)   The notice of correction order that was served stated the specific
nature of the violation, corrective action needed to be taken to break
violation, exit description of a punch the violations exist, and a specific
time period for abatement of violation;
      (3)   Within the time period stipulated by the notes of correction order
the violator failed to comply with the correction order by not abating the
violation, and/or not bringing the property into compliance with this
subchapter;
      (4)   Upon expiration of the date indicated for compliance in the
correction order, the premises or structure was being maintained in violation
of specific provisions of law and/or conditions imposed by the Town Council as
a prerequisite to the modification of a previous compliance order; and
      (5)   Determination that a violation exists on the property.
   (E)   Board decision. At the conclusion of a hearing at which a continuance
is not granted, the Town Council may reverse, affirm, or modify the order,
notice, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from, and may make
such order, requirement, decision, or determination as justice would require.
The Council’s determination and findings of fact shall be recorded in the Town
Council minutes, and if a notice or order is affirmed or modified the Town
Council shall, in the determination on appeal, reestablish a reasonable
timeline to make the repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling
unit, structure, or improvement into compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (F)   Court review. Any interested person, whether or not a previous party
to the appeal, shall have the right to apply to the appropriate court for a
writ of certiorari to correct errors of law.
   (G)   Stays of enforcement. Appeals of notice and orders (other than
imminent danger notices) shall stay the enforcement of the notice and order
until the Board of Public Works and Safety rules on the appeal.
(Ord. 3-2021, passed - -)
§ 90.07 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The town prohibits the doing of an act, or the omission of a duty, or
the suffering or permitting of a condition that injures or endangers the
comfort, repose, health or safety of others; offends decency; is offensive to
the senses; unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch, or drainage; in any way renders other persons insecure in life
or the use of property; or essentially interferes with the comfortable
enjoyment of life and property, or tends to depreciate the value of the
property of others.
   (B)   Examples of common nuisances include: tall grass and weeds;
accumulation of trash or rubbish; accumulation of stagnant water; and
conditions which provide shelter for rats, mice, snakes, and other vermin.
   (C)   If the Town Marshal determines that a nuisance exists on your
property, you will receive either a written warning citation or an official
citation. The citation will provide a statement of the violation and the
actions needed to be taken to correct the violation/abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Unless it is an emergency condition where safety is impacted, you will
be provided at least seven days to correct the nuisance. It will also provide
you a method to appeal the citation to the Town Council. If you do not timely
abate the violation or successfully appeal it to the Town Council, the town is
entitled to enter your property to correct the condition and place a lien on
your property for the cost of the correction.
(Ord. 3-2021, passed - -)
§ 90.08 WAIVER.
   A person may apply for a waiver from the court requirements of this section
to the Town Council which may grant such a waiver in its sole discretion when
it deems it to be in the public interest. Such waiver must specify the
property, date, and hours which applies.
(Ord. 3-2021, passed - -)
§ 90.09 STREET CLEANING; YARD WASTE.
   (A)   No persons shall discharge, or permit the discharge, of grass
clippings or other yard waste upon any public street, alley, or any surface
water, gutter, drain, or ditch in the town.
   (B)   The Town Police Department shall issue a citation to any person found
to be in violation of this section, and said person shall be fined $50.
(Ord. passed 9- -2005) Penalty, see §
90.99
OPEN BURNING
§ 90.20 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The exceptions to the open burning provisions are:
      (1)   Fires used for celebrating Twelfth Night Ceremonies;
      (2)   Fires used for celebrating school pep rallies;
      (3)   Fires used for celebrating scouting activities;
      (4)   Fires used for recreational and cooking purposes (for example, camp
fires); and
      (5)   Residential burning where the residence contains four or fewer
units.
   (B)   Burning shall be in a noncombustible container sufficiently vented to
induce adequate primary combustion air with enclosed sides, a bottom, and a
mesh covering with openings no larger than one-fourths inches square. Burning
is prohibited in apartment complexes and mobile home parks.
   (C)   Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to, the following
types: all combustible and flammable materials and liquids, including animal
carcasses, asbestos, cardboard, excelsior, fabric, garbage, grasses, greases,
hazardous materials, leaves, medical wastes, oil, including used motor oil, oil
base paint, shellac, paint thinner and any other oil-type product, gasoline and
diesel fuel, including any other combustible and flammable liquids, paper,
plastics, rags, refuse, rubbish, shrubbery prunings, vinyl, wood, wood products
which have been painted, stained, or otherwise chemically treated, including
railroad ties, yard waste, any materials listed as “combustible flammable
waste”, and any other materials capable of being burned.
(Prior Code, § II.4) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 EXCEPTIONS WITH PRIOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   Emergency burning of spilled petroleum products when all reasonable
efforts to recover the spilled material have been made and failure to burn
would result in an imminent fire hazard or water pollution problem (upon prior
approval of all state and local authorities).
   (B)   Burning of refuse, consisting of material resulting from a natural
disaster (upon prior approval of all state and local authorities).
   (C)   Burning for the purpose of fire training (upon prior approval of all
state and local authorities).
   (D)   Burning of natural growth derived from a clearing operation, for
example, removal of natural growth for change in use of the land (upon prior
approval of all state and local authorities).
(Prior Code, § II.4)
§ 90.22 REQUIREMENTS FOR EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Only wood products shall be burned unless otherwise stated above.
   (B)   Fires shall be attended at all times until completely extinguished.
   (C)   If fires create an air pollution problem, a nuisance, or a fire
hazard, they shall be extinguished.
   (D)   All residential burning shall occur during daylight hours during which
the fires may be replenished, but only in such a manner that nearly all of the
burning material is consumed by sunset.
   (E)   No burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorological
conditions such as temperature inversions, high winds, air stagnation, and the
like.
   (F)   Burn barrels are prohibited.
   (G)   All open burning shall be subject to the rules and regulations of the
state.
(Prior Code, § II.4)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   In addition to any other remedy provided in §§
90.01 through
90.05(A), or under any applicable law, any person or persons violating any
provision of §§
90.01 through
90.05(A) shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,500. Each day’s continued
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
90.05(B) through 90.08 shall be subject to the following fines (escalating
fines shall be measured on a calendar year basis):
         (a)   First offense: $1,000;
         (b)   Second offense: $1,500;
         (c)   Third offense: $2,000; and
         (d)   Subsequent offenses: $3,000.
      (2)   Each day a violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   Enforcement of first offense within a calendar year shall be within
the jurisdiction of the town.
      (4)   All enforcement of offenses subsequent to the first offense within
a calendar year shall be within the jurisdiction of the town.
      (5)   A custodial parent shall be responsible for ensuring that any child
under 18 years of age is responsible for any fine imposed.
      (6)   Citations for violation of §§
90.01 through
90.08 may be issued by any sworn member of the town, the Town Marshal,
designated town employees, or by any sworn special police officer.
   (D)   The penalty for violation of §
90.09 is a fine of $50 per each occurrence.
   (E)   Any person, persons, firm, or corporation who violates §§
90.20 through
90.22 shall be fined not less than $50. All fines are to be assessed by, and
made payable to, the town. All monies collected under §§
90.20 through
90.22 shall be deposited into the fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § II.4)
(Ord. passed 9- -2005; Ord. 1-2021, passed - -; Ord. 3-2021, passed - -;)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs and Cats
   
91.01   Scope
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Animal Control Officer
   
91.04   Violations
Vicious Dogs
   
91.15   Definition
   
91.16   Vicious dogs prohibited
 
   
91.99   Penalty
DOGS AND CATS
§ 91.01 SCOPE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to permit any dog(s) or
cat(s) belonging to such person or persons to run at large and not under
restraint in the town, or on the streets, alleys, sidewalks, parks, or other
public places within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   The owners of any dog(s) and/or cat(s) under restraint at all times
and shall not permit dog(s) and/or cat(s) owned by them to be at large in the
town.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owners of dog(s) and/or cat(s), which are
subject to rabies, for which an inoculation is available, and which are
harbored within the corporate limits of the town, to fail to have said dog(s)
and/or cats(s) inoculated by a licensed veterinary.
(Prior Code, § III.1) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Any dog or cat, for all intents and purposes of this subchapter,
shall be deemed to be AT LARGE when it is off the property of its owner or
keeper, and not under the restraint of a competent person.
   DOG AND/OR CAT. For the purposes of this subchapter, is considered to be
“under restraint” if the animal is controlled by leash, at heel beside a
competent person, or on or within a vehicle being driven or parked on the
public streets of the town, or within the property limits of its owner or
keeper.
(Prior Code, § III.1)
§ 91.03 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   There is established the position of Animal Control Officer for the county,
and by agreement with the town, said Animal Control Officer is authorized to
enforce this subchapter as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § III.1)
§ 91.04 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Dogs and cats found to be running at large and not under restraint are
in violation of this subchapter and are subject to be taken by the Animal
Control Officer and impounded at a suitable animal shelter and there confined
in a humane manner for a period of five days or until such time as claimed by
the owner thereof, whichever occurs sooner, unless said animal is confined due
to the animal biting a person. In said case such animal shall be confined for
14 days.
   (B)   Any animal impounded under the provisions of this subchapter may be
re-claimed by the owner upon proper identification and upon payment of
impounding fees as set forth herein.
   (C)   Any animal so impounded under the provisions of this subchapter and
not reclaimed by the owner or agent thereof within the stated time period may
be placed in the custody of some suitable person which will agree to comply
with the provisions of this subchapter and any amendments thereto, and provide
a good home for the animal, or such animal may be destroyed and disposed of in
a humane manner.
   (D)   When, in the judgment of the Animal Control Officer, upon advice from
a licensed veterinary, it is deemed that an animal should be destroyed for
humane, health, or safety reasons, it shall be the duty of the Animal Control
Officer to see that such animal is destroyed, and such animal shall not be
permitted to be redeemed by any person.
   (E)   Immediately upon the impounding of dogs or cats the Animal Control
Officer shall make every effort possible to notify the owner of such animal
being so impounded and shall further notify the owner of the conditions under
which they may regain custody of the animal.
   (F)   The owner of any animal impounded under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be entitled to resume possession of such animal upon the
payment of the impounding fees and any and all other conditions set forth
herein.
   (G)   No animal shall be delivered to its owner or claimer by the Animal
Control Officer until such time as the person claiming such animal has paid the
fine and fees required by this subchapter, and has further established the fact
to the Animal Control Officer that such animal is duly licensed and has
received all necessary rabies shots.
(Prior Code, § III.1)
VICIOUS DOGS
§ 91.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   VICIOUS DOG. A dog which, by its behavior, disposition, and/or conduct, has
a known or reasonably foreseeable aggressive nature or a tendency to vicious
conduct.
(Prior Code, § III.2)
§ 91.16 VICIOUS DOGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor upon any
property within the limits of the town any vicious dog unless the owner
complies with the following requirements:
   (A)   Any such vicious dog must be securely chained at all times when left
outside, unless the animal is kept in a locked, tight-linked, fenced enclosure
of sufficient height to absolutely prevent its escape;
   (B)   A sign must be conspicuously posted in a prominent place on the
property where such vicious dog is kept stating “Vicious Dog on the Premises”.
A similar sign is required to be posted on the pen or kennel of the vicious
dog;
   (C)   Any such vicious dog must be kept muzzled and on a leash under the
control of an adult or sufficiently large person to control such animal at all
times while being taken or transported anywhere within the town, whether kept
in a car or walked on a public street or way; and
   (D)   The owner or person in control of such vicious dog must maintain
liability insurance on such vicious dog in an amount of at least $300,000 for
personal injuries caused by the dog. A certificate of such insurance must be
available for viewing by any police officer upon the request of such officer.
(Prior Code, § III.2) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   There is a $50 fine for an animal found in violation of §§
91.01 through
91.04 that dogs and cats are not to be running at large and shall be under
restraint. Any animal impounded under the terms of §§
91.01 through
91.04 may be reclaimed, as herein provided, upon the payment by the owner or
person reclaiming such animal to the Animal Control Officer the sum of $50 for
the first and second occurrence, and $100 for the third and subsequent
occurrences for each animal so impounded. All fees collected by the Animal
Control Officer under the terms of §§
91.01 through
91.04 shall be deposited with the Town Clerk-Treasurer, together with a
detailed report of the same. All fines and fees shall be paid to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer, or as agreed with in the agreement with the county.
(Prior Code, § III.1)
   (C)   The following penalties shall apply in case of a violation of §§
91.15 and
91.16:
      (1)   Violation of §§
91.15 and
91.16 shall result in the issuance of a citation with a fine of not more than
$10,000 and, in addition, the dog owner might be subject to criminal
prosecution under I.C. 15-20-1-4 et seq.;
      (2)   A court may also order the vicious dog be humanely destroyed by a
licensed veterinarian, the dog catcher, or a police officer; and
      (3)   The offender may also be required to reimburse the town for the
cost of impounding the dog, including, but not limited to, food, medicine, cost
of humane destruction, burial, daily boarding fee, and attorneys’ fees incurred
in enforcement.
(Prior Code, § III.2)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION; CEMETERIES
Section
   
92.01   Opening, closing hours of town parks
   
92.02   Cemetery visitation policy
§ 92.01 OPENING, CLOSING HOURS OF TOWN PARKS.
   All town parks shall be open between the hours of 5:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m.,
and shall be closed between the hours of 12:00 midnight to 5:00 a.m. It is
intended that the town streets and sidewalks that pass through the town parks
(particularly Kirk Works Way and Franklin Street, and Ferry Street, Walnut
Street, Jefferson Street, and Washington Street between Kirk Works Way and
Franklin Street) are included in the park closure. Signs notifying persons of
these provisions shall be posted at the entrances and exits of each park. It
shall be a violation of this section for any person or persons to enter or
remain in any town park unless authorized by a member or members of the Town
Council, the Town Park Board, or the Town Police Department. The Town Council
reserves the right to adjust the opening and closing hours of town parks if
need be to accommodate special events (for example, the Swiss Wine Festival and
the Festival of Lights at Paul Ogle Riverfront Park). The Town Marshal or the
Deputy Town Marshals will be the legal enforcers of this section.
(Prior Code, § II.9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 CEMETERY VISITATION POLICY.
   (A)   In an effort to properly maintain the town’s cemetery grounds and
burial sites, the town respectfully requests cooperation on the following:
      (1)   Remove all damaged, faded, and worn wreathes, artificial flowers,
urns, and the like;
      (2)   Place all flowers, wreathes, and decorations on the headstands or
base (nothing shall remain in the grass);
      (3)   Keep all shepherd hooks as near to the stone as possible;
      (4)   No benches or decorations shall be allowed on the grass;
      (5)   Do not make any live plantings without permission of the Town
Council, as live plantings will be difficult to mow around. Live plantings
shall therefore be cut down;
      (6)   If the items are not in proper places, they shall be removed and
disposed of by the town. Anything that is of great expense shall be stored at
the Town Garage and can be picked up by family members. Relatives and concerned
persons may contact Town Hall at 812-427-3131 to make arrangements for pickup;
      (7)   Items may be set out a week prior to Memorial Day, but must be
removed within ten days after;
      (8)   No decorative stone, gravel, or rock shall be allowed on graves;
and
      (9)   Contracted mowing services or town employees will do any planting,
mowing, digging, trimming, and the like. All other services are prohibited.
   (B)   These provisions shall pertain to graves and lots both already in
existence and those yet to be constructed. An appropriate amount of time shall
be given to accomplish the requirements of this section. Questions pertaining
to this section may be directed to Town Hall at 812-427-3131.
(Ord. passed 11-8-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: PARADES AND SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Permits required
   
93.03   Exceptions
   
93.04   Application
   
93.05   Police protection
   
93.06   Standards for issuance
   
93.07   Non-discrimination
   
93.08   Notice of denial
   
93.09   Appeal procedure
   
93.10   Notice to town and other official
   
93.11   Contents of permit
   
93.12   Duties of permittee
   
93.13   Prohibitions
   
93.14   Public conduct during parades; public assemblies
   
93.15   Revocation of permit
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any march, demonstration, procession, street solicitation, or
motorcade consisting of persons, animals, or vehicles, or a combination
thereof, upon the streets, sidewalks, parks, or other public grounds within the
town with an intent of attracting public attention that interferes with, or has
a tendency to interfere with, the normal flow or regulation of traffic upon the
streets, sidewalks, parks, or other public grounds.
   PARADE OR PUBLIC ASSEMBLY OR SOLICITATION PERMIT. A permit as required by
this chapter.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   PUBLIC ASSEMBLY. Any meeting, demonstration, picket line, rally, or
gathering of more than five persons for a common purpose as a result of prior
planning that interferes with, or has a tendency to interfere with, the normal
flow or regulation of pedestrian or vehicular traffic or occupies any public
area in a place open to the general public/pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or
occupies any public area in a place open to the general public.
   PUBLIC SOLICITATION. Soliciting on a public right-of-way, street, highway,
alley, sidewalk, or park owned, operated, or under the control of a government
unit.
   SIDEWALK. Any area or way set aside or open to the general public for
purposes of pedestrian traffic, whether or not it is paved.
   SOLICITATION. Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions for the support or
benefit of any charitable or nonprofit association, organization, corporation,
or project, and seeking to distribute any advertising, literature, or other
material.
   STREET. Any place or way set aside or open to the general public for
purposes of vehicular traffic, including any berm or shoulder, parkway, right-
of-way, or median strip thereof.
   TOWN. The Town of Vevay, Indiana.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The Council for the town.
(Prior Code, § II.6)
§ 93.02 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in or conduct any parade public solicitation unless a
permit is issued by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § II.6)
§ 93.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Funeral processions;
   (B)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities; provided that such conduct is under the immediate
direction and supervision of the proper school authorities;
   (C)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions; and
   (D)   Lawful picketing in a labor dispute on a sidewalk that does not
violate the provision of this chapter or other state or local laws.
(Prior Code, § II.6)
§ 93.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   A person seeking a permit shall file an application with the town on a
form provided by the town, and the application shall be signed by the applicant
under oath.
   (B)   An application for a permit shall be filed with the Town Council at
least 30 days and not more than 365 days before the parade, solicitation, or
public assembly is proposed to commence. The President of the Town Council may
waive the minimum 30-day filing period and accept an application filed within a
shorter period if, after due consideration of the date, time, place, and nature
of the parade or public assembly, the anticipated number of participants, and
the services required in connection with the event, the President of the Town
Council determines that the waiver will not present a hazard to the public
safety. In no circumstances will the shorter period be less than ten days.
   (C)   The application for a parade, public solicitation, or public assembly
permit shall set forth the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct such parade, public solicitation, or public assembly;
      (2)   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the headquarters of
the organization for which the parade or public assembly is to be conducted, if
any, and the authorized and responsible head of the organization;
      (3)   The requested date of the parade or public assembly;
      (4)   The route to be traveled, including the starting point and the
termination point;
      (5)   The approximate number of persons who will participate;
      (6)   The hours when such parade, public solicitation, or public assembly
will start and terminate;
      (7)   A statement as to whether the parade, public solicitation, or
public assembly will occupy all or only a portion of the width of the streets
proposed to be traversed;
      (8)   The location by street of any assembly areas for such parade,
public solicitation, or public assembly;
      (9)   The time at which units of the parade, public solicitation, or
public assembly will begin to assemble at any such area;
      (10)   The type of public assembly, including a description of activities
planned during the event;
      (11)   A description of any recording equipment, sound amplification
equipment, banners, signs, or other attention getting devices to be used in
connection with the parade, public solicitation, or public assembly;
      (12)   Any additional information that the Town Council reasonably finds
necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should be issued; and
      (13)   Liability insurance record sent to the Town Hall.
(Prior Code, § II.6)
§ 93.05 POLICE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Upon a receipt of an application for a parade, public solicitation, or
public assembly permit, the Town Council shall provide a copy of the
application to the Town Marshal. The Town Marshal shall determine whether and
to what extent additional police protection is reasonably necessary for the
parade, public solicitation, or public assembly for traffic control and public
safety. The Town Marshal shall base this decision on the size, location,
duration, time and date of the event, the number of streets and intersections
blocked, and the need to detour or preempt citizen travel, and use of the
streets and sidewalks. The speech content of the event shall not be a factor in
determining the amount of police protection necessary to the extent the Town
Marshal does not reasonably foresee that same will affect public safety or the
probability of injury to persons or property. If possible, without disruption
of ordinary police services or compromise of public safety, regularly scheduled
on-duty personnel will police the event.
   (B)   Persons engaging in parades, public solicitations, or public
assemblies conducted for the sole purpose of public issue speech protected
under the First Amendment are not required to pay for any police protection
provided by the town.
(Prior Code, § II.6)
§ 93.06 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   The Town Council shall issue a permit as provided for herein when, from a
consideration of the application and from such other information as may
otherwise be obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade, public solicitation, or public assembly
will not substantially interrupt the safe and orderly movement of other
pedestrian or vehicular traffic contiguous to its route or location;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade, public solicitation, or public assembly
will not require the diversion of so great a number of police officers to
properly police the line of movement, and the areas contiguous thereto, as to
prevent normal police protection of the town;
   (C)   The concentration of participants will not unduly interfere with
proper fire and police protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous
to such public assembly areas;
   (D)   There is an unacceptable risk that the conduct of the parade or public
assembly will cause injury to persons or property;
   (E)   Adequate sanitation and other required health facilities are, or will
be, made available in or adjacent to any public assembly areas;
   (F)   There are sufficient parking places near the site of the parade or
public assembly to accommodate the number of vehicles reasonably expected;
   (G)   Such parade, public solicitation, or public assembly is not for the
primary purpose of advertising any product, goods, or event that is primarily
for the purpose of private profit and the parade itself is not for private
profit. The prohibition against advertising any product, goods, or event shall
not apply to signs identifying organizations or sponsors furnishing or
sponsoring exhibits or structures used in the parade;
   (H)   No parade, public solicitation, or public assembly permit application
for the same time and location is already granted or has been received and will
be granted;
   (I)   No parade, public solicitations, or public assembly permit application
for the same time but a different location is already granted or has been
received and will be granted, and the police resources required for that prior
parade or public assembly are so great that, in combination with the subsequent
proposed application, the resulting deployment of police services would have an
immediate and adverse effect upon the welfare and safety of persons and
property;
   (J)   No event is scheduled elsewhere in the town where the police resources
required for that event are so great that the deployment of police services for
the proposed parade, public solicitations, or public assembly would have an
immediate and adverse effect upon the welfare and safety of persons and
property; and
   (K)   The parade or public assembly would not be in violation of valid law.
No permit shall be granted that allows for the erection or placement of any
structure, whether permanent or temporary, on a town street, sidewalk, or
right-of-way unless advance approval for the erection or placement of the
structure is obtained from the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § II.6)
§ 93.07 NON-DISCRIMINATION.
   The Town Council shall uniformly consider each application upon its merits
and shall not discriminate in granting or denying permits under this chapter
based upon political, religious, ethnic, race, disability, sexual orientation,
or gender related grounds.
(Prior Code, § II.6)
§ 93.08 NOTICE OF DENIAL.
   The Town Council shall act promptly upon a timely filed application for a
parade, public solicitation, or public assembly permit, but in no event shall
grant or deny a permit less than 48 hours prior to the event. If the Town
Council disapproves the application, they shall notify the applicant either by
personal delivery or certified mail at least 48 hours prior to the event of the
action and state the reasons for the denial.
(Prior Code, § II.6)
§ 93.09 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any applicant shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade,
public solicitation, or public assembly permit to the Town Council. The denied
applicant shall make the appeal within five days after receipt of the denial by
filing a written notice with the Town Council and a copy of the notice with the
Town Clerk-Treasurer. The Town Council shall act upon the appeal at the next
scheduled meeting following receipt of the notice of appeal.
   (B)   In the event that the Town Council rejects an applicant’s appeal, the
applicant may file an immediate request for review with a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § II.6)
§ 93.10 NOTICE TO TOWN AND OTHER OFFICIAL.
   Immediately upon the issuance of a parade, public solicitation, or public
assembly permit, the Town Council shall send a copy thereof to the following:
   (A)   The Town Marshal;
   (B)   The Jefferson-Craig Fire and Rescue Inc.;
   (C)   The county EMS; and
   (D)   Any other person the Town Council may reasonably determine will
facilitate the implementation of the parking, public solicitation, or public
assembly.
(Prior Code, § II.6)
§ 93.11 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade, public solicitation, or public assembly permit shall state the
following information:
   (A)   Starting and approximate ending time;
   (B)   Minimum speed of parade units;
   (C)   Maximum speed of parade units;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between parade units;
   (E)   The portions of streets that may be occupied by the parade, public
solicitations, or public assembly;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Such other information as the Town Council shall reasonably find
necessary to the enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § II.6)
§ 93.12 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   (A)   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and
conditions, and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
   (B)   The parade, public solicitation, or assembly chairperson or other
person heading such activity shall carry the permit upon his or her person
during the conduct of the parade or public assembly.
(Prior Code, § II.6)
§ 93.13 PROHIBITIONS.
   The following prohibitions shall apply to all parades, public solicitation,
and public assemblies:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to stage, present, or conduct any
parade, public solicitation, or public assembly without first having obtained a
permit as herein provided;
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to participate in a parade, public
solicitation, or public assembly for which the person knows a permit has not
been granted;
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of, or responsible for
the conduct of, a duly licensed parade, public solicitation, or public assembly
to knowingly fail to comply with any condition of the permit; and
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any parade, public
solicitation, or public assembly activity that would constitute a substantial
hazard to the public safety or that would materially interfere with, or
endanger the public peace, or rights, of residents to the quiet and peaceful
enjoyment of their property.
(Prior Code, § II.6) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.14 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES; PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, or impede, or interfere
with, any parade, public solicitation, or public assembly or with any person,
vehicle, or animal participating or used in a parade, public solicitation, or
public assembly.
   (B)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or person
comprising a parade, public solicitation, or public assembly when such vehicles
or person are in motion and are conspicuously designated as a parade, public
solicitation, or public assembly.
   (C)   The Town Marshal shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary,
to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a street constituting a
part of the route of a parade, public solicitation, or public assembly. The
Town Marshal may cause signs to be posted to that effect, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation
thereof.
(Prior Code, § II.6) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.15 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Town Council shall have the authority to revoke a parade, public
solicitation, or public assembly permit instantly upon violation of the
conditions or standards for issuance set forth in this chapter, or when a
public emergency arises where the police resources required for that emergency
are so great that a deployment of police services for the parade, public
solicitation, or public assembly would have an immediate and adverse effect
upon the welfare and safety of persons or property.
(Prior Code, § II.6)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of any section of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be subject to a civil penalty fine of not less than $50 and
not more than $2,500. All fines are to be assessed by, and made payable to, the
Switzerland County Clerk. All monies collected under this chapter shall be
deposited into the fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § II.6)
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Policy statement
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Unlawful practice
   
94.04   Discrimination; sale, rental of housing
   
94.05   Discrimination; residential real estate-related transactions
   
94.06   Discrimination; provision of brokerage services
   
94.07   Interference, coercion, intimidation
   
94.08   Prevention of intimidation
   
94.09   Exemptions
   
94.10   Enforcement
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., as
amended, the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § IV.1)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The State Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-9-
1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
94.04,
94.05,
94.06,
94.07, or
94.08, or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of
18 years) being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody
of such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
The protections afforded against discrimination on this basis of familial
status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of
securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. A single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of such
family being further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS.
   HANDICAP. With respect to a person:
      (1)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or
more of such person’s major life activities;
      (2)   A record of having such an impairment;
      (3)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
      (4)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; or
      (5)   Any other impairment or disability within the meaning of I.C. 22-9-
5-6 et seq., noting the specific exclusions therein.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint stock
companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases
under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers, and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. To lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Prior Code, § IV.1)
§ 94.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
94.09, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
94.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (B)(3) below, nothing in §
94.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale, or who
was not the most recent resident of such house prior to the sale, the exemption
shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The private
individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or reserved on his
or her behalf, title to or any right to, all or a portion of the proceeds from
the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses at any one
time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be excepted to
application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities,
or services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent, or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
94.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied, or
intended to be occupied, by no more than four families living independently of
each other if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence; and
      (3)   For the purposes of division (B) below, a person shall be deemed to
be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
         (a)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
         (b)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
         (c)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Prior Code, § IV.1)
§ 94.04 DISCRIMINATION; SALE, RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
94.03 and except as exempted by §§
94.03(B) and
94.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial
status, or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sell or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
familial status, or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published, any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status,
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or
discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce, or attempt to induce, any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin; and/or
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in, or intending to reside in, that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in, or intending to reside in, that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (F), DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied, or to be occupied, by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodation in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling;
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1988, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to, and usable by, handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
               c.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later
installation of grab bars.
            4.   Usable kitchens and bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
         (d)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans
With Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for
buildings and facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically
handicapped people (commonly cited as “ANSI Al 17.1") suffices to satisfy the
requirements of division (F)(3)(c)2. above; and
         (e)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Prior Code, § IV.1)
§ 94.05 DISCRIMINATION; RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction because of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Prior Code, § IV.1) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 DISCRIMINATION; PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to, or membership or
participation in, any multiple listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national
origin.
(Prior Code, § IV.1) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
94.03,
94.04,
94.05, or
94.06.
(Prior Code, § IV.1) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin, and because he or she is, or has been,
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting, or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for, or participating in, any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is, or has been, or in order to
intimidate such person or any other person, or any class of persons, from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in subsection 15
(a); or
      (2)   Affording another person, or class of persons, opportunity or
protection so to participate.
(Prior Code, § IV.1)
§ 94.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B)(2)(b) and (B)(2)(c) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by, or in conjunction with, a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of said lodgings.
      (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state of federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Prior Code, § IV.1)
§ 94.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
subsection (b) hereof shall be vested in the Chief Executive Officer of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of a lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this
chapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission (“Commission”) for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6, and the Chief
Executive Officer of the town shall refer all said complaints to the Commission
as provided for under subsection (a) of this section to said Commission for
purposes of investigation, resolution, and appropriate relief as provided for
under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter,
and shall cooperate with the Chief Executive Officer and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Executive Officer of the town, or the Chief Executive
Officer’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Prior Code, § IV.1)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
    Any citizen, because he or she is, or has been, or in order to discourage
such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other
persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in §
94.04(B)(1), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to participate, shall be fined not more than
$1,000, or imprisoned not more than one year, or both; and if bodily injury
results shall be fined not more than $10,000, or imprisoned for not more than
ten years, or both; and if death results shall be subject to imprisonment for
any term of years or for life.
(Prior Code, § IV.1)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
      
111.   HORSE DRAWN CARRIAGE SERVICE
CHAPTER 110: TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
110.01   Definition
   
110.02   Exclusions
   
110.03   Necessity for license
   
110.04   Application for license
   
110.05   Surety bond
   
110.06   License fee
   
110.07   License issuance
   
110.08   Exceptions
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. All persons, firms, and corporations, both as principals
and agents, who engage in, do, or transact any temporary or transient business
in this state, either in one locality or in traveling from place to place,
offering for sale or selling goods, wares, or merchandise, and those who, for
the purpose of carrying on such business, hire, lease, or occupy any permanent
or mobile building, structure, or real estate for the exhibition by means of
samples, catalogues, photographs, and price lists or sale of such goods, wares,
or merchandise.
(Prior Code, § II.5)
§ 110.02 EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   Any person, individual, copartner, or corporation which grows the
goods, wares, or merchandise that is sold or is offered for sale;
   (B)   A person who makes crafts or items by hand and sells them, or offers
them for sale;
   (C)   A licensed auctioneer;
   (D)   A resident of the town in which the sale takes place, and who conducts
a sale of tangible personal property, for no more than four days per calendar
year;
   (E)   Any established school, civic, or not for profit organization; and
   (F)   A person who holds a registered retail merchant’s certificate.
(Prior Code, § II.5)
§ 110.03 NECESSITY FOR LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any transient merchant to transact business in the
town unless such transient merchant and the owners of any goods, wares, or
merchandise to be offered for sale or sold, if such are not owned by the
vendor, shall have first secured a license, and shall have complied with all
other requirements as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § II.5) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any transient merchant desiring to transact business in the town shall
file application for a license with the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The application shall state the following facts:
      (1)   The name, residence, and post office addresses of the person, firm,
or corporation making the application, and if a firm or corporation, the name
and address of the members of the firm or officers of the corporation, as the
case may be;
      (2)   If the applicant is a corporation, then there shall be stated on
the application form the date of incorporation, the state of incorporation, and
if the applicant is a corporation formed in a state other than this state, the
date on which such corporation qualified to transact business as a foreign
corporation in the state;
      (3)   A statement showing the kind of business proposed to be conducted,
the length of time for which the applicant desires to transact business, and
if, for the purpose of transacting such business, any permanent or mobile
building, structure, or real estate is to be used for the exhibition by means
of samples, catalogues, photographs, and price lists or sale of goods, wares,
or merchandise, the location of such proposed place of business;
      (4)   A detailed inventory and description of such goods, wares, and
merchandise to be offered for sale or sold, the manner in which the same is to
be advertised for sale and the representations to be made in connection
therewith, the names of the persons from whom the goods, wares, and merchandise
so to be advertised or represented were obtained, the date of receipt of such
goods, wares, and merchandise by the applicant for the license, the place from
which the same were taken, and any and all details necessary to locate and
identify all goods, wares, and merchandise to be sold; and
      (5)   Attached to the application shall be a receipt showing that
personal property taxes on the goods, wares, and merchandise to be offered for
sale or sold have been paid.
(Prior Code, § II.5)
§ 110.05 SURETY BOND.
   At the time of filing the application, the applicant shall also file and
deposit with the Town Clerk-Treasurer a bond with sureties to be approved by
the Town Clerk-Treasurer in the penal sum of $750, or three times the value of
the goods, wares, and merchandise to be offered for sale or sold as shown by
the inventory filed, whichever sum is greater. The bond shall be forfeited and
used for the benefit of any persons, firm, or corporation aggrieved by the
action of the applicant, and is awarded a judgment as a result of a cause of
action against the applicant.
(Prior Code, § II.5)
§ 110.06 LICENSE FEE.
   The applicant desiring to file an application with the Town Clerk-Treasurer
for a transient merchant license, including those granted to food trucks, shall
pay a license fee of $50 for each six-month period in which the applicant
proposes to transact business.
(Prior Code, § II.5)
§ 110.07 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of such application, and after the applicant has
established that he or she has fully complied with all the provisions of this
chapter, the Town Clerk-Treasurer may issue to the applicant a license
authorizing the said applicant to transact business as proposed in said
application. Such license shall not be transferable and shall be valid only in
the town. No license shall be good for more than one person, unless such
persons shall be co-partners or employees of a firm or corporation obtaining
such license. No license shall be good for more than one location in said town
if said transient merchant is transacting business in a building or structure
in said town.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a record of such license, which
shall, at all times, be open to public inspection.
   (C)   Any license issued shall state the name of the person, firm, or
corporation which is licensed, and the number of days for which the license is
issued.
(Prior Code, § II.5)
§ 110.08 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to sales made to dealers by commercial
travelers or selling agents in the usual course of business, nor to bona fide
sale of goods, wares, or merchandise by sample for future delivery, or to
sheriffs, constables, or other public officers selling goods, wares, and
merchandise according to law, nor to bona fide assignees or receivers appointed
in this state selling goods, wares, and merchandise for the benefit of
creditors.
(Prior Code, § II.5)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   A transient merchant who transacts business without having first obtained a
license or knowingly violates any provision of this chapter shall be punished
by a fine of not more than $50.
(Prior Code, § II.5)
CHAPTER 111: HORSE DRAWN CARRIAGE SERVICE
Section
   
111.01   Permit
   
111.02   Term
   
111.03   Warranties of permit holder
   
111.04   Independent contractor
   
111.05   Indemnification
   
111.06   Termination
   
111.07   Waiver
§ 111.01 PERMIT.
   Any person(s) wishing to establish a horse drawn carriage service in the
town shall be required to petition the town for permission to operate such a
service. If the town determines that the person(s) seeking said permit are
suitable to receive said permit, the town shall issue the permit under the
terms and conditions set forth in this chapter. The permit is not transferable
or assignable without the express written consent of the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2004)
§ 111.02 TERM.
   Any permit issued under this chapter shall be for a one-year period, and may
be renewed annually by the permit holder, at the sole discretion of the Town
Council.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2004)
§ 111.03 WARRANTIES OF PERMIT HOLDER.
   The permit holder shall do the following:
   (A)   Notify the County Tourism Office and the County Historical Society of
its hours of operation at least one month in advance;
   (B)   Properly train its personnel and maintain high standards of quality in
appearance, service, and safety and provide and use a horse diaper/manure bag;
   (C)   Maintain liability insurance for all operations of the carriage
service;
   (D)   Add the town as an insured to any policy of liability insurance
carried for the purpose of insuring the carriage operation(s);
   (E)   Obtain any licenses and permits required by state law;
   (F)   Provide veterinarian certification regarding the health of horses used
in the carriage operation when requested by the town; and
   (G)   Provide the town with a copy of any certificate of insurance covering
the carriage operation(s). Failure to provide insurance verification will
result in immediate, automatic cancellation of the permit.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2004)
§ 111.04 INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR.
   The permit holder shall, at all times, be an independent contractor and not
an agent of the town. The town assumes no liability for the operations or
actions of the permit holder. The permit holder shall not incur any obligations
or otherwise bind the town by any representations or warranties, and shall not
represent to anyone that he or she has such authority.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2004)
§ 111.05 INDEMNIFICATION.
   The permit holder shall hold the town harmless from any claims, demands,
liabilities, actions, suits, or proceedings asserted or claimed by third
parties and arising out of the operations of the permit holder, and agrees that
by receiving a permit to operate a carriage service they are obligated to
undertake the cost of defending any such claim.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2004)
§ 111.06 TERMINATION.
   The permit will automatically terminate should any of the following occur:
   (A)   Failure by the permit holder to meet any requirement of this chapter;
   (B)   Failure to maintain adequate insurance coverage; or
   (C)   Failure to provide carriage service in a manner acceptable to the Town
Council.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2004)
§ 111.07 WAIVER.
   Failure by the town to enforce any provision of this chapter shall not
constitute a waiver of rights for subsequent violations of said chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-24-2004)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
Alcohol in Public
   
130.01   Scope
   
130.02   Definition
   
130.03   Exceptions; special events
 
   
130.99   Penalty
ALCOHOL IN PUBLIC
§ 130.01 SCOPE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess any open container having
therein any alcoholic beverage or any alcoholic beverage in any constituent
part, on any street, alley, sidewalk, or in any other public area or private
area open to the public within the corporate limits of the town, except within
any private area open to the public and licensed by the Alcoholic Beverage
Commission of the state to sell alcoholic beverages for consumption within the
premises.
(Prior Code, § II.7) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. A liquid or solid which is, or contains, alcohol and
which is fit for human consumption and which is reasonably likely, or intended,
to be used as a beverage.
   CONTAINER. A receptacle in which an alcoholic beverage is immediately
contained and with which the alcoholic beverage contained in it is in immediate
contact.
(Prior Code, § II.7)
§ 130.03 EXCEPTIONS; SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   Upon application to, and approval of, the Town Council a special event
permit may be granted to allow the possession of alcoholic beverages on the
streets, alleys, and sidewalks of the town.
   (B)   All special event permits granted under this section shall be subject
to the following conditions:
      (1)   The area for which the permit is granted shall be described in the
permit;
      (2)   The area for which the permit is granted shall be enclosed with a
suitable fence or partition wall;
      (3)   The special event permit shall be limited to no more than four
days;
      (4)   The special event permit shall be valid only upon compliance with
all requirements of state law and the regulations of the State Alcoholic
Beverage Commission; and
      (5)   Such other conditions as may be imposed at the time the special
event permit is granted by the Town Council.
(Prior Code, § II.7)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §§
130.01 through
130.03 shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $100. All fines are to be
assessed by, and made payable to, the town. All monies collected under this
subchapter shall be deposited into the fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § II.7)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   TREES
      
152.   FLOOD REGULATIONS
      
153.   LAND USE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Appointment of Building Commissioner
   
150.04   Authority
   
150.05   Scope
   
150.06   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
150.07   Permit required
   
150.08   Permit application
   
150.09   Fees; required inspections
   
150.10   Inspections
   
150.11   Review of application
   
150.12   Entry
   
150.13   Stop order
   
150.14   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.15   Standards
   
150.16   Violations
   
150.17   Right of appeal
   
150.18   Remedies
   
150.19   Fencing
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.30   Definitions
   
150.31   Adoption; administration
   
150.32   Unsafe buildings
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the “Building Code of Switzerland County, Indiana”, or “Building
Code”, and may be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as “this
subchapter”.
(Prior Code, § XII.1)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards for the
protection of life, limb, health, environment, public safety, and welfare, and
for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Prior Code, § XII.1)
§ 150.03 APPOINTMENT OF BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established the office of County Building
Commissioner. The Building Commissioner shall be appointed by the Board of
County Commissioners. He or she shall not be actively engaged in the
construction field or related activities (including real estate sales,
development, or rentals) within the county during his or her employment as
Building Commissioner. The Executive Director of the County Area Plan
Commission may be appointed and serve as the Building Commissioner, also.
   (B)   The town does hereby designate the County Building Commissioner as its
Building Commissioner, and authorizes the building inspection services in
accordance with the terms and fees set forth in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § XII.1)
§ 150.04 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce all of the provisions of this subchapter. Whenever, in the building
regulations, it is provided that anything must be done to the approval of, or
subject to the direction of, the Building Commissioner, or any other officer of
the state or county, this shall be construed to give such officer only the
discretion of determining whether the rules and standards established by
ordinance have been complied with; and no such provision shall be construed as
giving such officer discretionary powers as to what such regulations, codes, or
standard shall be, or power to require conditions not prescribed by ordinances
or to enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner.
Any variance from adopted building rules are subject to approval under the
provisions of I.C. 22-13-2-7(b). The Building Commissioner is authorized to
employ sufficient qualified inspectors, assistants, or other employees, subject
to the approval of the Board of County Commissioners and the County Council.
(Prior Code, § XII.1)
§ 150.05 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter apply to the construction, alteration,
repair, use, occupancy, maintenance, and additions to all buildings and
structures, other than industrialized building systems or mobile structures
certified under I.C. 22-15-4, and fences and farm accessory buildings, in the
county. Repair of existing buildings or structures are covered by the
provisions of this subchapter only if they effect the exterior perimeter and/or
structural strength of such building or structure.
(Prior Code, § XII.1)
§ 150.06 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The following building rules, regulations, and codes of the State Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission, as set out in the following articles
of I.A.C. 675, are hereby incorporated by reference in this section as the
rules and regulations governing the construction and alteration of buildings
and structures in the county, and shall include later amendments to those
articles as the same are published in the State Register or the State
Administrative Code with effective dates as fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 13, Building Codes.
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards;
         (b)   State Building Code;
         (c)   State Building Code Standards; and
         (d)   State Handicapped Accessibility Code.
      (2)   Article 14, One- and Two-Family Dwelling Codes.
         (a)   Council of American Building Officials One- and Two-Family
Dwelling Code; and
         (b)   CABO One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code; Amendments.
      (3)   Article 16, Plumbing Code. State Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17, Electrical Codes.
         (a)   State Electrical Code; and
         (b)   Safety Code for Health Care Facilities.
      (5)   Article 18, Mechanical Codes. State Mechanical Codes;
      (6)   Article 19, Energy Conservation Codes.
         (a)   State Energy Conservation Code; and
         (b)   Modifications to the Model Energy Code.
      (7)   Article 20, Swimming Pool Code. State Swimming Pool Code.
   (B)   All National Flood Insurance Program regulations governing the
construction and alteration of buildings and structures in the county
(contained in 42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq., as specified on Attachment A (section
10 Review Sheet for NFIP Regulations) pertaining to state and federal permits,
subdivision review, building permit review, floodproofing non-residential
structures, manufactured home standards, utility construction record keeping
(including lowest floor elevations), and watercourse alteration and
maintenance, are hereby incorporated by reference in this subchapter and shall
include later amendments to these regulations.
   (C)   Copies of these codes, rules, and regulations, adopted herein by
reference, are on file as required by law in the office of the Building
Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § XII.1)
§ 150.07 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A permit, using forms furnished by the Building Commissioner as
approved by the County Commissioners, shall be obtained before beginning new
construction, or altering or repairing existing buildings or structures if the
alterations or repairs effect the exterior perimeter, and/or structural
strength of such buildings or structures; and the cost of which construction,
alteration, or repair exceeds $1,000; and the size of which exceeds 191 square
feet; or which construction involves the installation of a permanent new
electric service for any reason; or the changing or alternation of an existing
service entrance; or the installation of temporary service for new
construction. An exception would be residential satellite television
installations. All permits shall be issued by the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued unless the application for the same
shall be accompanied by the fees due therefor. These fees shall be paid to the
Building Commissioner who shall forthwith pay over such fees to the County
Auditor to the credit of the County General Fund, daily, and no part of the
fees shall be returnable to the applicant, unless specifically authorized by
the Building Commissioner.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any work for which a permit
is required unless the person doing the work shall maintain a building permit
for the work in a full and conspicuous place on the site of the work until the
work shall be finished and finally inspected. No permit issued pursuant to this
subchapter shall be removed from the site of the work authorized thereby until
permission for its removal is granted by the Building Commissioner. (See §
150.10(B).)
   (D)   Where the Building Commissioner has issued a building permit pursuant
to the provisions of this subchapter, such permit shall become null and void
unless work thereon is under way within six months, or if the work thereon is
not completed within three years of the date of issuance of such permit.
(Prior Code, § XII.1) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.08 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Drawings required. No permit shall be issued for the purposes
specified in §
150.07 unless the application for the permit is accompanied by two copies of
drawings, plans, and specifications showing in complete detail the following:
      (1)   Plat or map of the parcel of land involved, showing the location of
the proposed or existing building or structure, and setback from streets or
property lines of the proposed building or structure on the lot or premises;
      (2)   A complete survey, showing all property lines and the size of the
lot or premises where any building is to be erected or constructed, certified
by a professional engineer or land surveyor registered in the state, unless, in
the opinion of the Building Commissioner, the survey is not necessary;
      (3)   All construction and details;
      (4)   Electrical work, wiring, or installations showing the exact
location of all apparatus, and the size and capacity thereof; the size of all
main and branch conduits; the location of all openings and cabinets, and the
capacity of all conductors; provided, however, that the requirements of this
division (A)(4) shall not be applicable to meter and service installations, or
maintenance, repairs, or alterations to equipment used by public utilities; and
      (5)   Except for single-family dwellings, plumbing work showing the exact
location of all fixtures and apparatus, and the capacity thereof; the size of
all pipes; the location of all openings and traps, and the capacity of all
conductors; provided, however, that the Building Commissioner may dispense with
the requirement that drawings be furnished in cases of repairs, the cost value
of which does not exceed $200.
   (B)   “Approved” stamp. Both copies of the drawings, plans, and
specifications, referred to in division (A) above, shall be stamped “approved”
(if approved by him or her) by the Building Commissioner, and one such copy
shall be returned to the applicant to be kept on the job site at all times.
   (C)   Release for construction required. All plans for building construction
under the authority of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of
the state must also be filed with the State Building Commissioner. No local
permits shall be issued until a copy of a release for construction from the
State Building Commissioner is received by the Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § XII.1)
§ 150.09 FEES; REQUIRED INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Permits required by §
150.07 hereof shall be issued upon prior payment of inspection and permit fees
according to the following schedule:
Type of Construction Permit Fees
Type of Construction                  Permit Fees
Accessory buildings and structures    $25 each
Additional (all occupancies)          $40 each
Alterations (all occupancies)         $40 each
Business, commercial                  $120, plus 0.0015 times the total
                                      construction cost with $1,500 maximum
Educational, commercial               $100, plus 0.001 times the total
                                      construction cost with $1,000 maximum
Industrial, warehouse, bulk storage   $100, plus 0.0005 time the total
                                      construction with $500 maximum
Mobile homes, temporary structures    $40 each
Multi-family dwelling, hotels, motels $100 first unit, $30 each unit 2-10, $20
                                      each unit over ten units
Nursing homes                         $60 each unit
Pole barns (in agriculture districts) $10 (in non-agriculture districts: $40)
Re-inspection, additional inspection  $25 each
Single-family dwelling                $100
Swimming pools (in ground)            $60 (above ground and exceeding 250
                                      square feel in area: $25)
Two-family dwelling                   $130
 
   (B)   All work done under any permit issued hereunder shall be in full
compliance with all other ordinances pertaining thereto, and in addition to the
fees for permits hereinafter provided for, there shall be paid the fees
prescribed in such ordinances.
(Prior Code, § XII.1)
§ 150.10 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   After the issuance of any building permit, the Building Commissioner
shall make, or shall cause to be made, such inspections of the work being done
under the permit as are necessary to ensure full compliance with the provisions
of this subchapter and the terms of the permit. The Building Commissioner will
make the following inspections for buildings and structures included within the
scope of this subchapter together with additional inspections which may be
requested by the State Building Commissioner:
      (1)   Footing;
      (2)   Rough-in, including framing, plumbing, beating, and electrical; and
      (3)   Final inspection of work found to be incomplete or not ready for
inspection are subject to assessment of re-inspection fees as prescribed in §
150.09. The Building Commissioner shall, in all cases, designate the stage of
construction when each required inspection must be requested by the permit
holder.
         (a)   The permit holder shall be responsible for notifying the
Building Commissioner, orally or in writing, not less than eight working hours,
for example, the hours between 8:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., before covering or
concealing work to be inspected except that the permit holder shall be
responsible for notifying the Building Commissioner, orally or in writing, not
less than four working hours, for example, the hours between 8:30 a.m. and 4:00
p.m. prior to installation of footings.
         (b)   No concrete shall be placed for foundations without prior
inspection. No electrical, mechanical, plumbing, thermal insulation, or
structural framing shall be covered without prior inspection.
   (B)   A sticker or tag shall be attached to the building permit certifying
each phase of construction or renovation. In cases where the work is not
approved, the Building Commissioner shall cause a tag or sticker to be fastened
to the building permit stating that the work is deemed in noncompliance. It
shall be unlawful for any person to disturb or remove the tag until authorized
to do so by the Building Commissioner.
   (C)   The permit holder shall repair, or cause to be repaired, defective
work deemed in noncompliance to this subchapter or documents listed in §
150.06, and shall notify the Building Commissioner after the work is completed
so that re-inspection can be made. No further work can progress until the
previous phase of construction has been approved by the Building Commissioner.
   (D)   During any inspection of any electrical installation, the Building
Commissioner shall affix a tag to such electrical service installation
authorizing the utility to make its connections and provide electrical service,
and without which no utility shall provide electrical service to any building,
mobile home, or structure.
(Prior Code, § XII.1) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.11 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of any building hereunder, the Building
Commissioner shall:
      (1)   Review all building permit applications to determine full
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter;
      (2)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the
floodplain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed
repair:
         (a)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
         (b)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      (3)   Review building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements within the floodplain area having special flood
hazards to assure that the proposed construction (including prefabricated and
mobile homes):
         (a)   Is protected against flood damage;
         (b)   Is designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure or flood damage; and
         (c)   Used construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      (4)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
   (B)   The above services shall be completed within three working days after
the date of filing of the application except in cases where approval of the
State Building Commissioner is required, in which case the review of the
application shall be completed within three working days after receipt, or
copy, of release for construction from the State Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § XII.1)
§ 150.12 ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Commissioner, or his
or her duly authorized representatives, may enter, at reasonable times, any
building, structure, or premises in the county to perform any duty imposed upon
him or her by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § XII.1)
§ 150.13 STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this
subchapter, the Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in
writing served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be
done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by
the Building Commissioner to proceed with the work.
(Prior Code, § XII.1)
§ 150.14 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   A certificate of occupancy shall be issued within three working days after
completion of final inspection for any building or structure erected, altered,
or repaired; provided such building or structure was erected, altered, or
repaired in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § XII.1)
§ 150.15 STANDARDS.
   All work on the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner using accepted
standards and practices in the trade.
(Prior Code, § XII.1)
§ 150.16 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, whether as
owner, lessee, sub-lessee, or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any
building or structure, covered by this subchapter, in the county, or cause or
permit the same to be done, contrary to, or in violation of, the provisions of
this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, utility, or corporation to
supply or provide electricity, or to cause or permit the same to be done, to
any building, mobile home, or any other structure unless and until there has
been performed an inspection by the County Building Commissioner, or his or her
authorized agent, and proper indication has been made by such Building
Commissioner in the form of a tag that electrical service may be provided
thereto.
   (C)   In the event of an emergency, the Building Commissioner is authorized
to verbally approve establishment of service if the delay would cause such harm
or damage to persons as to jeopardize life or health.
(Prior Code, § XII.1) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal the Building Commissioner’s
decision first through the County Board of Commissioners and then to the State
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission in accordance with the
provisions of I.C. 22-13-2-7 and I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 as applicable.
(Prior Code, § XII.1)
§ 150.18 REMEDIES.
   The Building Commissioner shall, in the name of the County Commissioners,
bring actions in the County Circuit Court for mandatory and injunctive relief
in the enforcement of, and to secure compliance with, any order or orders made
by the Building Commissioner, and any such action for mandatory or injunctive
relief may be joined with an action to recover the penalties provided for in
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § XII.1)
§ 150.19 FENCING.
   (A)   Construction and maintenance.
      (1)   Fence construction shall be of good workmanship, with material
reasonably suited for its intended purpose.
      (2)   Fences shall be maintained on both sides in a condition of good
repair, and shall not be in, or remain in, the condition of disrepair,
including, but not limited to, leaning or sagging.
      (3)   A fence that is in disrepair is a public nuisance and may result in
a fine or removal. Barbed wire, sharp-pointed wire, sheet metal, pallet
material, and electrical fences are not allowed.
      (4)   The following materials are approved for fence construction:
         (a)   Wrought iron;
         (b)   Aluminum (wrought iron design);
         (c)   Wood;
         (d)   Vinyl/PVC and composite fencing (e.g., Trex and the like); and
         (e)   Chain-link with approved posts and caps, provided they are of a
woven-type material at least 12 gauge.
      (5)   The following materials are not approved for fence construction:
         (a)   Farm fence of any kind, which includes, but is not limited to,
woven or welded wire, chicken wire, plastic deer fence, snow fence, steel bar
fence, and similar-type fencing, except as allowed for gardens;
         (b)   T-post, pipes, and metal stakes;
         (c)   Barbed wire (except for security fences around power
substations);
         (d)   Pallet material; and
         (e)   Temporary barriers not permanently affixed to the ground.
   (B)   Height. Fences shall meet the following height requirements:
      (1)   No fencing in front yards shall exceed four feet above ground
level; and
      (2)   No fencing in side and rear yards shall exceed six feet in height.
(Ord. passed 11-5-2021) Penalty, see §
150.99
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. As defined by I.C. 36-7-9-2, means the Town Marshal
who is hereby invested with all powers, duties, and privileges set forth in
I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-29.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. As defined by I.C. 36-7-9-2, means the Town Council.
   SUSTAINABLE PROPERTY INTEREST. As set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2 is hereby
incorporated by reference herein as if copied in full.
(Prior Code, § XII.2)
§ 150.31 ADOPTION; ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-4, the Town Unsafe Building
Ordinance is hereby adopted.
   (B)   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-29 is incorporated by reference as the
Town Unsafe Building Ordinance. All proceedings within the town for inspection,
repair, and removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by the provisions of
this ordinance.
   (C)   All buildings, or portions thereof, which are determined after
inspection by the Town Marshal in which the alleged unsafe building is located
to be unsafe, as defined herein, are public nuisances and shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal in accordance with the procedure
specified in this subchapter.
   (D)   The Town Marshal shall order the repair or removal of any buildings
found to be unsafe as defined in this subchapter.
   (E)   (1)   Whenever the Town Building Code or the Town Unsafe Building
Ordinance provide that any act must be done with the approval of the Building
Commissioner, or any other town officer, this shall be construed to give such
officer only the discretion of determining whether the rules and standards
established by this subchapter have been complied with.
      (2)   No such provisions shall be construed as giving any officer
discretionary powers as to what such regulations or standards shall be, power
to require conditions not prescribed by this subchapter, or to enforce the
provisions of this subchapter in an arbitrary or discretionary manner.
   (F)   (1)   All work for the reconstruction, alteration, repair, or
demolition of buildings and other structures shall be performed in a good
workmanlike manner according to the accepted standards and practices in the
trade.
      (2)   The rules and regulations promulgated by the State Administrative
Building Council shall be considered standard and acceptable practice for all
matters covered by this subchapter or issued pursuant to this subchapter by the
Town Marshal.
   (G)   The Town Marshal is hereby designated the enforcement authority in
accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-2 and for the purpose of
conducting hearings in accordance with I.C. 36-7-9-7.
   (H)   No person, whether owner, lessee, sublessee, or occupant, shall erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, demolish, equip, use,
occupy, or maintain any building or premises, or cause or permit the same to be
done in violation of any of the provisions of this section or any order issued
by the Town Marshal.
   (I)   The Town Council is hereby designated as the hearing authority in
accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-2. The hearing authority shall
perform those functions specific by the Act.
   (J)   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY shall be defined as it is in I.C. 36-7-9-2 and is
hereby specifically incorporated by reference into this subchapter as if fully
set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § XII.2)
§ 150.32 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   Any building or structure which has any, or all, of the conditions or
defects in the divisions below shall be deemed to be an unsafe building;
provided that such conditions or defects endanger the life, health, property,
or safety of the public or its occupants:
   (A)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood, or by other cause to such an extent that the structural strength,
or stability thereof, is materially less than it was before such catastrophe,
and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of similar
structure, purpose, or location;
   (B)   Whenever any portion, member, or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
   (C)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled, or settled
to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have materially less
resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case of similar new
construction;
   (D)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, is likely
to partially or completely collapse because of:
      (1)   Dilapidation, deterioration, or decay;
      (2)   Faulty construction;
      (3)   The removal, movement, or instability of any portion of the ground
necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
      (4)   The deterioration or decay, or inadequacy of its foundation; or
      (5)   By any other cause.
   (E)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
   (F)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind,
earthquake, or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to
become:
      (1)   An attractive nuisance to children; or
      (2)   Freely accessible to persons for the purpose of committing unlawful
acts.
   (G)   Whenever a building or structure used, or intended to be used, for
dwelling purposes, because of maintenance, dilapidation, decay, damage, faulty
construction, or arrangements inadequate light, air, or sanitation facilities,
or otherwise, is determined by the Building Commissioner, Board of Health,
township, or local Fire Chief, or Administrative Building Council State
Inspector, to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such a condition
that is likely to cause sickness or disease;
   (H)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas
connections, or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the Town
Marshal or Administrative Building Council State Inspector to be a fire hazard;
and
   (I)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure. Further,
whenever any building or structure has been abandoned and deteriorated to the
point of becoming an attractive nuisance or hazard to the public.
(Prior Code, § XII.2)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   If any person, firm, or corporation shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
150.01 through
150.18, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to perform any
duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Building
Commissioner, or shall fail, neglect, or refuse to obey any lawful order given
by the Building Commissioner in connection with the provisions of §§
150.01 through
150.18, for each violation, failure, or refusal, such person, firm, or
corporation shall be subject to one or more of the following penalty
provisions:
         (a)   Any person(s), firm, or corporation failing to obtain a permit
as set forth in §§
150.01 through
150.18 shall be required to obtain a permit at three times the cost set forth
in the permit fee schedule herein above;
         (b)   Any person, firm, or corporation failing to abide by any other
section of §§
150.01 through
150.18 shall be required to pay a civil penalty in an amount no less than three
times the permit fee set forth in the permit fee schedule herein above; and/or
         (c)   Any person, firm, or corporation found in violation of §§
150.01 through
150.18 shall be enjoined from any further building or construction until such
time, as they comply with the terms of §§
150.01 through
150.18, to the satisfaction of the Building Commissioner.
      (2)   Any violation of §§
150.01 through
150.18 shall constitute a Class A infraction; for all violations prosecuted
under this section, the prosecuting attorney shall represent the Building
Commissioner; the remedies set forth in this section are not mutually
exclusive; and the Building Commissioner may pursue any or all remedies set
forth in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(1)(b), or (B)(1)(c) above.
(Prior Code, § XII.1)
CHAPTER 151: TREES
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Public tree, shrub, and hedge care
   
151.04   Subdivisions; development of commercial property
   
151.05   Permits
   
151.06   Appeals
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote and protect the public
health, safety, and general welfare by providing for the regulation of the
planting, maintenance, and removal of trees, shrubs, and other plants within
the land publicly owned by the town.
   (B)   In addition, it is the intent of this chapter to positively affect the
general appearance of the townscape and the quality of life in the town.
(Ord. passed 10-9-2001)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   PARK TREE. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in public
parks and all other areas owned by the town, or to which the public has free
access as a park.
   STREET TREE. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation located
on rights-of-way of streets or alleys, or on real estate owned or controlled by
the town.
(Ord. passed 10-9-2001)
§ 151.03 PUBLIC TREE, SHRUB, AND HEDGE CARE.
   (A)   The town shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove
trees, plants, and shrubs within the easement of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary.
   (B)   The Tree Board, or those under its direction, may act on behalf of the
Town Council to fulfill this responsibility. In all instances, property owners
who may be effected by this work shall be notified in writing and consulted
prior to the start of the work.
(Ord. passed 10-9-2001)
§ 151.04 SUBDIVISIONS; DEVELOPMENT OF COMMERCIAL PROPERTY.
   In subdivisions or when the development of commercial property occurs, the
Tree Board will review landscaping plans and may require street trees to be
planted in or along the rights-of-way, parking lots, parks, or other public
places.
(Ord. passed 10-9-2001)
§ 151.05 PERMITS.
   No person shall plant, remove, cut above the ground, or disturb any tree on
any town right-of-way, park, or other public place without first procuring a
tree care permit from the town. There shall be no charge for the tree care
permit.
(Ord. passed 10-9-2001)
§ 151.06 APPEALS.
   The Town Council has the right to review the conduct, acts, and decisions of
the Tree Board and make changes. Any person may appeal a ruling or order of the
Tree Board to the Town Council who may hear the matter and make final
decisions.
(Ord. passed 10-9-2001)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   The Town Council, or its agents, shall enforce this chapter. Any person who
violates any provision of this chapter, or who fails to comply with any notice
issued pursuant to provision of the chapter, upon being found guilty of
violation shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500 for each offense.
(Ord. passed 10-9-2001)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD REGULATIONS
Section
   
152.01   Authorization, findings of fact, purpose, objectives
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   General provisions
   
152.04   Administration
   
152.05   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
   
152.06   Variance procedures
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The State Legislature has in I.C. 36-7-
4 granted the power to local government units to control land use within their
jurisdictions. Therefore, the County Commissioners, the Town Council of
Patriot, Indiana, and the Town Council of Vevay, Indiana, does hereby adopt the
following floodplain management regulations.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the county and the Towns of Patriot and
Vevay are subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life and
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief,
and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely effect the public
health, safety, and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities,
and by the occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately flood-
proofed, or otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
      (6)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available for structures
and their contents in the
county and the Towns of Patriot and Vevay by fulfilling the requirements of the
National Flood Insurance Program.
   (D)   Objectives. The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To protect human life and health;
      (2)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains; and
      (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood
blight areas.
(Ord. 03-17-2014, passed 3-17-2014)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A ZONES,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR, and Zone A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are
presented below.
      (1)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent annual
chance flood event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of
an under-construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of
special flood hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of
a protection system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete
for insurance rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood
protection system has reached specified statutory progress toward completion.
No base flood elevations or depths are shown.
      (2)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent annual
chance flood event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been
performed, no base flood elevation or depths are shown.
      (3)   ZONE AE AND A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent
annual chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations
are shown within these zones, (Zone AE is on new and revised maps in place of
Zones A1-A30.)
      (4)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent annual
chance shallow flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (5)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent annual
chance shallow flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average
depths are between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from
detailed hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (6)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure with a floor area
400 square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure, and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation, and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of floodings
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the one-percent annual chance
flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, and installations which produce, use, or store hazardous
materials or hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT. 
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing, resurfacing
roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings, or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source (see FLOOD).
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA (see FREEBOARD).
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage prevention
ordinance, and floodplain management requirements.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. The portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP. As related to variances of this chapter, means the exceptional
hardship that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The
Board of Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and
peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is
not exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,1997,
will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA), LETTER OF MAP REVISION
(LOMR), and LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in
a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is
only issued by FEMA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations, and elevations.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision
by letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars; and
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of floodwaters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of mitigation
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929 is a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading, or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the
effective date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993, is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across, or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard, or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or, due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD (see REGULATORY
FLOOD).
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR).
      (1)   An official republication of a community’s FEMA map to effect
changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain boundary
delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features.
      (2)   These changes typically occur as a result of structural works or
improvements, annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or
correction to base flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to, and approved by, the State Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
      (1)   The REGULATORY FLOOD elevation at any location is as defined in §
152.03(B) of this chapter.
      (2)   The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE FLOOD, 1%
ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD, and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq., as amended, which states that no new flood insurance
coverage shall be provided for any property that the Administrator finds has
been declared by a duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other
authorized public body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations,
or ordinances that intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land
development or occupancy in flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The lands within the jurisdiction of the
county, the Town of Patriot, and the Town of Vevay subject to inundation by the
regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the county, the Town of Patriot, and the Town of
Vevay are generally identified as such on the county, and incorporated areas,
Flood Insurance Rate Map dated April 16, 2014, as well as any future updates,
amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
with the most recent date (these areas are shown on a FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1-
A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT, and means the date
the building permit was issued; provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation, or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement.
      (1)   This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss or
substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not include improvements of structures to correct
existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code
requirements or any alteration of a historic structure; provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter, is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X ZONES (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See definition for A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C, AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(ZONE X is used on new and revised maps in place of ZONES B and C.)
(Ord. 03-17-2014, passed 3-17-2014)
§ 152.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this chapter applies. This chapter shall apply to all
SFHAs and known flood-prone areas within the jurisdiction of the county and the
Towns of Patriot and Vevay.
   (B)   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data. This chapter’s
protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best available regulatory
flood data is listed below.
      (1)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the county, the Town of Patriot, and
the Town of Vevay shall be as delineated on the one-percent annual chance flood
profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of the county and incorporated areas and
the corresponding Flood Insurance Rate Map dated April 16, 2014, as well as any
future updates, amendments, or revisions prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency with the most recent date.
      (2)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for
each of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the county, the Town of Patriot,
and the Town of Vevay, delineated as an A Zone on the county and incorporated
areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated April 16, 2014, as well as any future
updates, amendments, or revisions prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency with the most recent date, shall be according to the best data available
as provided by the State Department of Natural Resources; provided the upstream
drainage area from the subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a
party disagrees with the best available data, the party needs to replace
existing data with better data that meets current engineering standards. To be
considered, this data must be submitted to the State Department of Natural
Resources for review, and subsequently approved.
      (3)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of
identification on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and
fringe limits of any watercourse in the community’s known flood-prone areas
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the State
Department of Natural Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile.
      (4)   Upon issuance of a letter of final determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective, less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
   (C)   Establishment of floodplain development permit. A floodplain
development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities in areas of
special flood hazard.
   (D)   Compliance. No structure shall hereafter be located, extended,
converted, or structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with
the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations. No land or stream
within the SFHA shall hereafter be altered without full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (F)   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations.
      (1)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
      (2)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
      (3)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above
the base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall
be considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be
applied. The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
   (G)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this chapter
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (H)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on available information derived from engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions.
Therefore, this chapter does not create any liability on the part of the
county, the Town of Patriot, the Town of Vevay, the State Department of Natural
Resources, or the state, for any flood damage that results from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 03-17-2014, passed 3-17-2014)
§ 152.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of Administrator. The county and incorporated areas shall
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter, and is herein referred
to as the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Permit procedures. Application for a floodplain development permit
shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her
prior to any development activities, and may include, but not be limited to,
the following: plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures, earthen fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage
facilities, and the location of the foregoing. Specifically, the following
information is required:
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD;
         (f)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed; and
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering study is required, and any watercourse changes submitted
to DNR for approval and then to FEMA as a letter of map revision. (See division
(C)(6) below for additional information.)
      (2)   Construction stage. Upon establishment/placement of the lowest
floor, before framing continues, to include any approved floodproofing, it
shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD elevation of the lowest floor or
floodproofed elevation, as built. Said certification shall be prepared by, or
under the direct supervision of, a registered land surveyor or professional
engineer and certified by the same. When floodproofing is utilized for a
particular structure, said certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the floodproofing
certification shall be at the applicant’s risk (the Floodplain Administrator
shall review the lowest floor and floodproofing elevation survey data
submitted). The applicant shall correct deficiencies detected by such review
before any further work is allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make said corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the
elevation certification shall be at the applicant’s risk. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the lowest floor or floodproofed elevation survey
data submitted. The applicant shall correct any deficiencies detected by such
review. Failure to submit the elevation certification or failure to make
correction required shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project;
and
      (3) Finished construction. Upon completion of construction, an elevation
certification which depicts the “as-built” lowest floor elevation is required
to be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator. If the project includes a
floodproofing measure, floodproofing certification is required to be submitted
by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
      (2)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the
permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and
complete substantial damage determinations;
         (c)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
State Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject §
152.05(E) and (G)(1), and maintain a record of such authorization (either copy
of actual permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment);
         (d)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit;
         (e)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway;
         (f)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
         (g)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, letters of map change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and “as-built” elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter;
         (h)   Utilize and enforce all letters of map change (LOMC) or physical
map revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community;
         (i)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished;
         (j)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
         (k)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with division (B) above;
         (l)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with
division (B) above;
         (m)   For stop-work orders:
            1.   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure, or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease; and
            2.   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the
owner of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work,
and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
         (n)   For revocation of permits:
            1.   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of this chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based; and
            2.   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-17-2014, passed 3-17-2014)
§ 152.05 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas the
following provisions are required:
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure;
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not
limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard
shall be in addition to, and consistent with, applicable state requirements for
resisting wind forces;
      (3)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG;
      (4)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      (5)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG;
      (6)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      (7)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      (8)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding; and
      (9)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet
the requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
   (B)   Specific standards. In all SFHAs, the following provisions are
required:
      (1)   In addition to the requirements of all structures to be located in
the SFHA shall be protected from flood damage below the FPG. This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
         (a)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
         (b)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land);
         (c)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred;
         (d)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site
for more than 180 days;
         (e)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new
manufactured home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning
the existing manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage;
         (f)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure;
and
         (g)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community’s first
floodplain ordinance.
      (2)   New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation). Should
solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings
sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be
provided in accordance with the standards of division (B)(4) below.
      (3)   New construction or substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or non-residential structure (or manufactured home) shall either
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above the FPG (two
feet above the base flood elevation) or be floodproofed to or above the FPG.
Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure,
openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall
be provided in accordance with the standards of division (B)(4) below.
Structures located in all A Zones may be floodproofed in lieu of being elevated
if done in accordance with the following:
         (a)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
152.04(C)(12); and
         (b)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
      (4)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG. Elevated structures with fully
enclosed areas, formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the flood
protection grade, shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls. Designs must meet the
following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher;
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices; provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions;
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms; and
         (f)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade.
      (5)   A residential or non-residential structure may be constructed on a
permanent land fill in accordance with the following:
         (a)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
standard or modified proctor test method, which shall be retained in the permit
file;
         (b)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE;
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical;
         (d)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties; and
         (e)   The top of the lowest floor, including basements, shall be at or
above the FPG.
      (6)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or
substantially improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the
following requirements (these requirements apply to all manufactured homes to
be placed on a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision):
         (a)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision; in an expansion
to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision; or in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred
“substantial damage” as a result of a flood:
            1.   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at, or above, the FPG and
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement;
            2.   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (B)(4) above; and
            3.   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
         (b)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed
on a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not
been substantially damaged by a flood:
            1.   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest
floor of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above
grade and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to
resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement;
            2.   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (B)(4) above; and
            3.   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
         (c)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
            1.   Be on site for less than 180 days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
            3.   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes as stated in this
division (B)(6).
      (7)   Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing standards may be
granted for accessory structures. Such structures must meet the following
standards:
         (a)   Shall not be used for human habitation;
         (b)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
         (c)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (d)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
         (e)   Service facilities, such as electrical and heating equipment,
shall be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG; and
         (f)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters
to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as
required for elevated structures in division (B)(4) above.
      (8)   All above ground gas or liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to
prevent flotation or lateral movement.
   (C)   Standards for subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
      (2)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      (4)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
      (5)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA
and/or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
      (6)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of the
SFHA for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
   (D)   Critical facility. Construction of new critical facilities shall be,
to the extent possible, located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of
new critical facilities shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to
the extent possible.
   (E)   Standards for identified floodways.
      (1)   (a)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
152.03(B), are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential.
         (b)   If the site is in an identified floodway, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the State Department of Natural
Resources and apply for a permit for construction in a floodway. Under the
provisions of I.C. 14-28-1 a permit for construction in a floodway from the
State Department of Natural Resources is required prior to the issuance of a
local building permit for any excavation, deposit, construction, or obstruction
activity located in the floodway.
         (c)   This includes land preparation activities such as filling,
grading, clearing and paving, and the like undertaken before the actual start
of construction of the structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial
additions/improvements to existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river
floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26 allows construction of a non-substantial addition/
improvement to a residence in a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a
permit for construction in the floodway from the State Department of Natural
Resources. Please note that if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the
existing grade, prior approval for the fill is required from the State
Department of Natural Resources.)
      (2)   (a)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator
until a permit or letter of authorization (when applicable) has been issued by
the State Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in
the floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the State Department of Natural Resources, the
Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit;
provided the provisions contained in this section have been met.
         (b)   The floodplain development permit cannot be less restrictive
than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by the State Department
of Natural Resources. However, a community’s more restrictive regulations (if
any) shall take precedence.
      (3)   No development shall be allowed, which acting alone or in
combination with existing or future development, that will adversely affect the
efficiency of, or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This adverse
affect is defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at
least fifteen-hundredths of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory
flood elevation under the project condition to that under the natural or pre-
floodway condition as proven with hydraulic analyses.
      (4)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the Floodplain Administrator shall submit the data and request that the
Federal Emergency Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per
mapping standard regulations found at 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
   (F)   Standards for identified fringe. If the site is located in an
identified fringe, then the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit; provided the provisions contained in this
section have been met. The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of
any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
   (G)   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes.
      (1)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile:
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the State Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment;
         (b)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway permit (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the one-
percent annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection
grade has been received from the State Department of Natural Resources; and
         (c)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway permit (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued; provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the State Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in this section been met.
      (2)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile:
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area
upstream of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the
limits of the floodplain and the one-percent annual chance flood elevation for
the site; and
         (b)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit; provided the provisions contained in this
section have been met.
      (3)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the regulatory flood more than fourteen-hundredths of one foot and will not
increase flood damages or potential flood damages.
   (H)   Standards for flood-prone areas. All development in known flood-prone
areas not identified on FEMA maps, or where no FEMA published map is available,
shall meet applicable standards as required in this section.
(Ord. 03-17-2014, passed 3-17-2014)
§ 152.06 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board. The Board of Zoning Appeals
shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from requirements of
this chapter.
   (B)   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board. The board shall hear and decide
appeals when it is alleged an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the
Board may appeal such decision to the County Circuit Court.
   (C)   Variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the Board
shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage, and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (4)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (5)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (7)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (9)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
of transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (D)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
      (2)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §
152.05(E) or (G)(1) may be granted.
      (3)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §
152.05(E) or (G)(1) will require a permit from the State Department of Natural
Resources.
      (4)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
152.05(B) may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to, and surrounded by, lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (6)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of
any structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places
or the State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
      (7)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built, and stating that the cost
of the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting
from the reduced lowest floor elevation (see division (E) below).
      (8)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the State Department of Natural Resources upon request.
   (E)   Variance notification.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
      (2)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
flood protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood
insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases
risks to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the
Floodplain Administrator in the Office of the County Recorder and shall be
recorded in a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected
parcel of land.
   (F)   Historic structure. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as an historic structure, and the variance is the minimum to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (G)   Special conditions. Upon the consideration of the factors listed in
this section, and the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-17-2014, passed 3-17-2014)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or
conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All
violations shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in
accordance with the provisions of the zoning code. All violations shall be
punishable by a fine not exceeding $2,500.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages, and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the county or the towns from taking such
other lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 03-17-2014, passed 3-17-2014)
CHAPTER 153: LAND USE REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Uniform Zoning Ordinance adopted by reference
§ 153.01 UNIFORM ZONING ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Switzerland County Uniform Zoning Ordinance, and any and all amendments
made thereto by ordinance by either the town, as seen in the citation, or the
county, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated into this code as if
fully set out herein.
(Ord. passed 4-5-1995; Ord. 6-5-95-C, passed 6-5-1995)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   LAND VACATIONS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS AND INCORPORATIONS
      
III.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
IV.   FUNDS
      
V.   STREET NAMES
      
VI.   LEASE AGREEMENTS; PURCHASES
TABLE I: LAND VACATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Passed Date Description
Ord./ Passed
Res.  Date   Description
No.
             Larry D. Gault, Sheila Ann Gault; vacating a portion of an alley located south
-     1-2-   of Market Street, and running southerly from Market Street to Morrow Street in
      1991   the John Sheet’s Addition that borders Lot 188 of the town on the west and Lot
             1 of the John Sheets Addition on the east.
      8-4-   Vacating a portion of Walnut Street located on the north side of State Road
-     1993   56, being an area in the shape of a trapezoid, 66 feet in width and with a
             long base of 136.54 feet and a short base of 125.58 feet.
      7-17-  Vacating a portion of Brindley Avenue located between Ohio Street and the
-     1996   drainage ditch, said drainage ditch being located between, and parallel to,
             Ohio Street and Pearl Street.
             Kent A. Deaton, Angelia M. Deaton, Jerry E. Boggs, Linda M. Boggs; vacating a
-     9-17-  portion of Jefferson Street, in the John Sheet’s Addition, running north and
      1997   south along the east line of Block 1 and along the west line of Block 2 from
             Market Street on the north to Monroe Street on the south.
      7-24-  Fire Wood Corporation, Roderick E. Dickerson, Myra Sue Dickerson, G.A.L.S.,
-     2000   LLC; vacating a portion of a cul-de-sac on Pearl Street, north of Seminary
             Street.
      5-10-  Temporarily vacating a portion of Pike Street lying between Liberty Street and
5-04  2004   Main Cross Street, and an alley located between Liberty Street and Main Cross
             Street, north of Pike Street.
8-    8-22-  Vacating an alley located north of Pike Street, south of Seminary Street, east
2005  2005   of Main Cross Street, and west of Liberty Street, but the utility right-of-way
             shall remain.
10-1- 10-8-  Valley Limited L.P.; vacating part of Eaglin Alley in the Julia McCormick’s
12    2012   Addition, beginning at the southwestern corner of Lot 11, containing 0.1034
             acres.
-     5-27-  Vacating an alley located between Cedar Avenue and Arch Street, as it appears
      2013   on the plat of the Dupraz Addition, recorded in plat 55.
            
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS AND INCORPORATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Passed Date Description
-             3-4-1992    Gerri Lynn Dickerson; a part of Section 22, Township
                          2 north, Range 3 west, located in Jefferson Township.
                         
 
TABLE III: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord./Res. No. Passed Date Description
Ord./ Passed
Res.  Date   Description
No.
12-04 - -    Changing the zoning classification of two parcels of land, with exceptions.
-     10-7-  Changing the zoning classification of Lots 35 and 36 in the Sheet’s and
      1992   Defour Addition from Residential (R-2) to General Business (GB).
-     8-2-   Changing the zoning classification of a parcel of land located on Lot 128.
      1995
-     10-4-  Changing the zoning classification of Lot 32 in the Sheet’s and Defour’s
      1995   Addition from Residential (R-1) to General Business (GB).
      5-5-   Changing the zoning classification of Section 14, Township 2 north, Range 3
-     1999   west parcel of land from Forest Recreation (FR) and Multi-Family Residential
             (R-2) to General Business (GB).
-     6-27-  Changing the zoning classification of Lot 11 in Slawson’s Addition from
      2005   Residential (R-1) to Local Business.
      9-9-   Changing the zoning classification of a part of Section 22 and a part of
-     2009   Section 23, Township 2 north, Range 3 west from Enclosed Industrial (I-2) to
             a Unit Development Plan (UD).
-     11-26- Changing the zoning classification of Lots 108 and 109 from Residential (R-
      2012   1) to General Business (GB).
-     1-14-  Changing the zoning classification of parts of Lots 152 and 153 from
      2013   Residential (R-1) to Multi-Family Residential (R-2).
      3-23-  Changing the zoning classification of Section 14, Township 2, Range 3 west,
-     2015   north side of Seminary Street, from Residential (R-1) to Multi-Family
             Residential (R-2).
            
 
TABLE IV: FUNDS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Establishing a Revenue Special Fund from the
-             - -         collection of fees and service charges for trash
                          collection.
                        (Prior Code, § VI.1)
-             - -         Establishing the Unsafe Building Fund.
                        (Prior Code, § XII.2)
-             10-9-2001   Establishing a Capital Tree Improvement Fund for
                          programs of the Tree Board.
2-2005        2-14-2005   Establishing non-reverting storm drain fund.
                          Amending the ordinance for a fund for revenue sharing
-             5-26-2020   for the appropriation and expenditure of revenue
                          sharing funds.
-             6-7-2021    Establishing a Town Improvement Fund.
-             6-7-2021    Establishing a Town Unsafe Building Fund.
                         
 
TABLE V: STREET NAMES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
2018-001      3-12-2018   Changing the street previously named Lafayette Street
                          to Kirk Works Way.
                         
 
TABLE VI: LEASE AGREEMENTS; PURCHASES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          The sale of 5567 East State Road 56, Vevay, IN 47043
Res. -        4-12-2021   to Michael L. Broshears of BDL Properties, Inc.,
                          otherwise know as the Whiskey Hollow Landfill.
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cite Code Section
I.C. Cite                  Code Section
4-21.5                     51.11
4-21.5-3-7                 150.17
4-22                       51.11
5-2-8-2                    33.02
5-10.3-7                   31.15
6-3.6-6-4                  34.15
8-1-2-89                   51.01
8-1.5-3-9.1                50.01
9-13-2-1                   90.01
14-28-1                    152.05
14-28-1-26                 152.05
15-20-1-4 et seq.          91.99
22-9-1-4 et seq.           94.02
22-9-5-6 et seq.           94.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.           94.01
22-9.5-2-2                 94.02
22-9.5-2-3                 94.02
22-9.5-2-4                 94.02
22-9.5-2-8                 94.02
22-9.5-2-9                 94.02
22-9.5-2-11                94.02
22-9.5-2-13                94.02
22-9.5-3                   94.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.           94.09
22-9.5-4-8                 94.10
22-9.5-5                   94.02
22-9.5-5-1                 94.03
22-9.5-6                   94.10
22-9.5-6                   94.02
22-13-2-7                  150.17
22-13-2-7(b)               150.04
22-15-4                    150.05
33-39-7-9                  31.15
36-1-3-8(9)                10.99
36-1-3-8(10)               10.99,
                           50.99
36-1-5-4                   31.16
36-1-6-1 et seq.           10.99
36-1-20.2                  31.16
36-1-21                    31.16
36-4-6-11                  31.16
36-5-2-9.4                 31.16
36-7-4                     152.01
36-7-4-204 and 36-7-4-207  32.01
36-7-4-217                 32.02
36-7-4-218(a)              32.03
36-7-4-218(e)              32.03
36-7-4-218(f)              32.03
36-7-4-220                 32.04
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-29 150.30;
                           150.31
36-7-9-2                   150.30;
                           150.31
36-7-9-4                   150.31
36-7-9-7                   150.31
                           
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2021 Code
Prior Code 2021 Code
           72.01-
II.1       72.04;
           72.99
           71.01-
II.2       71.12;
           72.99
           90.20-
II.4       90.22;
           90.99
           110.01-
II.5       110.08;
           110.99
           93.01-
II.6       93.15;
           93.99
           130.01-
II.7       130.03;
           130.99
II.8       35.01
II.9       92.01
II.10      70.01;
           70.99
           91.01-
III.1      91.04;
           91.99
           91.15;
III.2      91.16;
           91.99
           94.01-
IV.1       94.10;
           94.99
V.1        33.01;
           TSO Table IV
V.3        33.02
           52.15-
VI.1       52.23;
           52.99
VI.2       52.02;
           52.99
VII.1      34.01
VII.2      34.01
VIII.2     11.01
IX.1       32.01-
           32.03
X.1        31.30-
           31.35
X.2        31.16
X.3        31.17
XI.1       51.12
XI.2       50.40
           50.15-
XI.3       50.21;
           50.99
XI.4       50.01
           51.01;
XI.5       51.10;
           51.11
XI.6       50.99
           150.01-
XII.1      150.18;
           150.99
           150.30-
XII.2      150.32;
           TSO Table IV
XIII.1     31.02;
           35.02
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        4-12-2021   TSO Table VI
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
-            - -         51.13;
                         51.99
                         10.01-
2-2021       - -         10.16;
                         10.99
                         90.05-
3-2021       - -         90.08;
                         90.99
12-04        - -         TSO Table III
2017-5       - -         52.21
I-88         7-6-1988    Ch. 73, Schd. I
I-90         10-3-1990   Ch. 73, Schd. I
-            1-2-1991    TSO Table I
-            9-18-1991   Ch. 73, Schd. I
-            3-4-1992    TSO Table II
-            10-7-1992   TSO Table III
14-92        11-4-1992   30.01
2-93         7-21-1993   Ch. 73, Schd. I
-            8-4-1993    TSO Table I
-            9-15-1993   51.09
3-94         5-18-1994   Ch. 73, Schd. I
-            10-5-1994   52.01
-            4-5-1995    153.01
6-5-95-C     6-5-1995    153.01
-            8-2-1995    TSO Table III
-            9-6-1995    Ch. 73, Schd. II
-            10-4-1995   TSO Table III
-            6-5-1996    Ch. 73, Schd. I
-            6-5-1996    Ch. 73, Schd. I
-            7-17-1996   TSO Table I
-            9-18-1996   Ch. 73, Schd. I
-            9-17-1997   TSO Table I
-            6-17-1998   Ch. 73, Schd. I
-            1-20-1999   Ch. 73, Schd. I
-            1-20-1999   Ch. 73, Schd. I
-            5-5-1999    TSO Table III
-            10-20-1999  Ch. 73, Schd. I
-            3-13-2000   Ch. 73, Schd. I
-            7-24-2000   TSO Table I
-            12-11-2000  31.15
                         151.01-
-            10-9-2001   151.06;
                         151.99;
                         TSO Table IV
4002         4-8-2002    Ch. 73, Schd. I
9-02         9-22-2002   Ch. 73, Schd. I
4-03         4-28-2003   Ch. 73, Schd. II
-            1-24-2004   111.01-
                         111.07
5-04         5-10-2004   TSO Table I
2-2005       2-14-2005   TSO Table IV
-            6-27-2005   TSO Table III
8-2005       8-22-2005   TSO Table I
-            9- -2005    90.09;
                         90.99
-            9-9-2009    TSO Table III
10-1-12      10-8-2012   TSO Table I
-            11-26-2012  TSO Table III
-            1-14-2013   TSO Table III
-            5-27-2013   TSO Table I
                         152.01-
03-17-2014   3-17-2014   152.06;
                         152.99
-            3-23-2015   TSO Table III
                         72.15-
2016-001     12-19-2016  72.22;
                         72.99
2017-03      8-28-2017   51.02-
                         51.08
2017-04      8-28-2017   50.35-
                         50.39
2018-001     3-12-2018   TSO Table V
-            5-26-2020   TSO Table IV
10-23-2020-1 10-23-2020  34.15
                         90.01-
1-2021       - -2021     90.05;
                         90.99
-            1-4-2021    31.01
-            6-7-2021    TSO Table IV
-            6-7-2021    TSO Table IV
-            11-5-2021   150.19
-            11-8-2021   92.02
-            12-20-2021  34.30
-            - -         31.15
2022-OR-2    7-5-2022    50.35;
                         50.36
2022-OR-3    8-29-2022   72.99
                        
 
