City of Vincennes, Indiana
Code of Ordinances
2024 S-16 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 15-2023, passed 10-11-23; and
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service, 2023 Acts,
Pamphlet No. 3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ADOPTING ORDINANCE 4-94
ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE, A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF VINCENNES
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SAID CODE.
   WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of Vincennes are
incomplete and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and
indexing thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City, and
   WHEREAS, The Acts of the State Legislature of the State of Indiana empower
and authorize the Common Council of this City to revise, amend, restate, codify
and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new ordinances not
heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate said ordinances into one
ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Common Council of the City of Vincennes has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of
a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
VINCENNES, INDIANA, THAT:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the City of Vincennes as herein
revised, amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Vincennes,
Indiana."
   Section 2. Said Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
titles, to wit:
                     Title I
                     Title III
                     Title V
                     Title VII
                     Title IX
                     Title XI
                     Title XI II
                     Title XV
                     Tables of Special Ordinances
                     Parallel References
                     Index
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in said
Code shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of said Code
except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in said Code;
provided such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred
or any right established prior to the effective date of said Code, nor shall
such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating
money, annexing or detaching territory establishing franchises or granting
special rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements authorizing
the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale
of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements plat or
dedication of land to public use, naming or vacating or setting the boundaries
of streets, alleys or other public places, nor to any other ordinance of a
temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained therein.
   Section 4. Said Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the City Legislative Body and the Clerk of the City of
Vincennes is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of said Code in the
Office of the City Clerk.
   Section 5. Said Code shall be in full force and effect from the date of its
publication and filing thereof in the Office of the Clerk, and said Code shall
be presumptive evidence in the courts and places of the ordinance and all
provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained and of the
date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded and
approved and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law
have been given.
   PASSED and adopted by the Common Council this 14th day of February, 1994, by
a vote of  6  to  O  with  0  abstaining.
   Belle Kasting /s/
   Presiding Officer
ATTEST:
City Clerk-Treasurer
   PRESENTED to the Mayor for her approval and signature at  Nine  o'clock  A
.M., this  15th  day of  February , 1994.
   Mary Hurt /s/
   City Clerk-Treasurer
   APPROVED AND SIGNED by me this  15th  day of  February  1994.
   Belle Chattin Kasting /s/
   Mayor of the City of Vincennes
ORDINANCE 24-99
AN ORDINANCE OF THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VINCENNES, INDIANA ENACTING
AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF VINCENNES,
INDIANA AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY. (Board of Public Works and Safety)
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 1999 supplement to the Code of Ordinances for the City of
Vincennes, Indiana, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the City of Vincennes, Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Common Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
VINCENNES, INDIANA, THAT:
   Section 1.   That the 1999 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Vincennes, Indiana, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Common Council and the Clerk-Treasurer of the City
of Vincennes, Indiana is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such a
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   Section 4. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage and approval by the Mayor.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Common Council this  9th  day of  August , 1999 by
a vote of  7  to  0  with  0  abstaining.
   Howard Wm. Hatcher /s/
   Presiding Officer
ATTEST:    Beverly S. Marsh /s/
       Clerk-Treasurer
      PRESENTED to the Mayor for his approval and signature this  10th  day of
August , 1999.
      Beverly S. Marsh /s/
      Clerk-Treasurer
      APPROVED AND SIGNED by me this  10th  day of  August  1999.
      Howard Wm. Hatcher /s/
      Mayor of the City of Vincennes
ORDINANCE 14-2012
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF VINCENNES, INDIANA AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation, Ohio has completed the S-
9 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political Subdivision, which
supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this Political
Subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE CITY OF VINCENNES, INDIANA:
   Section 1.   That the S-9 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
   Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Common Council of the City of Vincennes, Indiana
this  27th  day of  August , 2012 by a vote of  7  to  0  with  0  abstaining.
                         Joe Yochum /s/
                        Joe Yochum, Presiding Officer
ATTEST:
David L. Culp /s/
David L. Culp, City Clerk-Treasurer
   PRESENTED to the Mayor of the City of Vincennes, Indiana this  28th  day of
August , 2012 at the hour of 8:00 a.m.
   This Ordinance is requested by Shirley Rose
ORDINANCE 30-2013
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF VINCENNES, INDIANA AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation, Ohio has completed this S-10
supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political Subdivision, which
supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this Political
Subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE CITY OF VINCENNES, INDIANA:
   Section 1.   That the S-10 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
   Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
      PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Common Council of the City of Vincennes,
Indiana this  25th  day of  November , 2013 by a vote of  6  to  0  with  0
abstaining.
    Joe Yochum /s/
   Joe Yochum, Presiding Officer
ATTEST:
  David L. Culp /s/
David L. Culp, City Clerk-Treasurer
      PRESENTED to the Mayor of the City of Vincennes, Indiana this  26th  day
of  November , 2013 at the hour of 8:00 a.m.
   This Ordinance is requested by Mayor Yochum
ORDINANCE 7-2019
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF VINCENNES, INDIANA
AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation, Ohio has completed the City
of Vincennes supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political Subdivision,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this Political
Subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE CITY OF VINCENNES, INDIANA:
   Section 1.   That the City of Vincennes supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
   Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
      PASSED by the Common Council of the City of Vincennes, Indiana this 12th
day of August , 2019, by a vote of  7  to  0  with  0  abstaining.
    Joe Yochum /s/
   Joe Yochum, Presiding Officer
ATTEST:
  Sharon K. Meek /s/
Sharon K. Meek, City Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE 16-2020
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF VINCENNES, STATE OF INDIANA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the City of Vincennes supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general
and permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of
Ordinances of this Political Subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE CITY OF VINCENNES, INDIANA:
   Section 1.   That the City of Vincennes supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
   Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
      PASSED by the Common Council of the City of Vincennes, Indiana this 26th
day of  October , 2020, by a vote of  7  to  0  with  0  abstaining.
    Joe Yochum /s/
   Joe Yochum, Presiding Officer
 
ATTEST:
  Catherine M. M. Lane /s/
Catherine M. M. Lane, City Clerk-Treasurer
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the city of Vincennes shall be
designated as the Code of Vincennes and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Vincennes,
Indiana.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COMMON COUNCIL or COUNCIL. The legislative body of the city.
   COUNTY. Knox County, Indiana.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Indiana.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
Common Council or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)    AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants.  When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the Common Council requiring publication shall take
effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise expressly
provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the Common Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (IC 36-5-2-2) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 31.10 MAYOR.
      The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Common Council.
   (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
   Statutory reference:
      For the powers and duties of the Mayor, see IC 36-4-5-3
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $ 2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   City seal
   
11.02   City flag
§ 11.01 CITY SEAL.
   The corporate seal of the city shall consist of a circular disc containing a
representation of the George Rogers Clark Memorial in the city, surrounded by
the words: “Seal of the City of Vincennes, Indiana.”
('71 Code, § 2.01)
§ 11.02 CITY FLAG.
    (A)   There is created, established and adopted the official flag of the
city, described as follows:
   The flag shall have a blue field with the insignia of the city in the center
of the field. This insignia is designed with a center circle of red and
inscribed thereon in white, the letter “V” in old English, representative of
the rule of the English Government over Vincennes. Also three fleur-de-lys, one
above the “V” and one on each side, slightly below the center of the circle,
representative of the rule of the French Government over Vincennes. Around the
red center is a blue circular band, and inscribed on this are the words,
“Vincennes” (above) “Indiana” (below).
   (B)   Radiating from this band are 19 points, indicating that Indiana was
the nineteenth state admitted into the union. These points are divided into two
parts from the tip of the point to the circle, one side red and the other side
white.
('71 Code, § 2.02)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   COMMON COUNCIL
         
31.   CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
         
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
         
33.   POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
         
34.   BI-STATE AIRPORT AUTHORITY
         
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
         
36.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
CHAPTER 30: COMMON COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Councilmanic districts
Rules of Procedure
   
30.15   Meetings
   
30.16   Election of officers; duties of presiding officer and president pro-
tempore
   
30.17   Parliamentary authority
   
30.18   Amendment and suspension of rules
   
30.19   Convening meetings; quorum
   
30.20   Seating of members
   
30.21   Limits on debate
   
30.22   Absence from meeting; leaving meeting in session
   
30.23   Orderliness of members
   
30.24   Right to express dissent
   
30.25   Conflict of interest
   
30.26   Address on personal privilege
   
30.27   Order of business
   
30.28   Council agenda
   
30.29   Voting procedures
   
30.30   Appointments to boards and commissions
   
30.31   Motions
   
30.32   Decorum; protocol
   
30.33   Violation of rules
   
30.34   Expulsion of member
   
30.35   Investigatory powers
Committees
   
30.45   Standing committees
   
30.46   Special committees
   
30.47   Committee of the whole
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
30.60   Definitions
   
30.61   Title and enacting clause for ordinances
   
30.62   Filing and copies of ordinances and resolutions
   
30.63   Readings required
   
30.64   Vote required
   
30.65   Public inspection and publication
   
30.66   Amendment of ordinances and resolutions
   
30.67   Veto procedure
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 COUNCILMANIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   District I. North at corner of 7th Street/Washington Avenue and St.
Clair Street to corner of St. Clair Street and Oliphant Drive; East on Oliphant
Drive to corner of Oliphant Drive and Portland Avenue; North on Portland Avenue
to city boundary; Follow city boundary around Northwest part of city to corner
of 6th Street and city boundary; West on 6th Street to corner of 6th Street and
Hart Street; South on Hart Street to corner of Hart and 7th Street/Washington
Avenue; East on 7th Street/Washington Avenue to corner of 7th Street/Washington
Avenue and St. Clair Street.
   (B)   District II. South at corner of 7th Street and Shelby Street to corner
of Shelby and 12th Street; East on 12th Street to corner of 12th Street and
Ridgeway Avenue; North on Ridgeway Avenue to corner of Ridgeway Avenue and
Washington Avenue; East on Washington Avenue to corner of Washington Avenue and
Niblack Boulevard; North on Niblack Boulevard to corner of Niblack Boulevard
and Old Bruceville Road; East on Old Bruceville Road to city boundary; Follow
city boundary around Northeast part of city to corner city boundary and
Portland Avenue; South on Portland to corner of Portland and Oliphant Drive;
West on Oliphant Drive to corner of Oliphant Drive and St. Clair Street; South
on St. Clair Street to corner of St. Clair Street and Washington Avenue; West
on Washington Avenue to corner of 7th and Shelby Street.
   (C)   District III. East at corner of 15th Street and Willow Street to
corner of 15th and Hart Street; North on Hart Street to the corner of Hart and
12th Street; East on 12th Street to corner of 12th Street and Shelby Street;
North on Shelby Street to corner of Shelby Street and 7th Street; West on 7th
Street to corner of 7th Street and Hart Street; North on Hart Street to corner
of Hart and 6th Street; West on 6th Street to corner of 6th and city boundary;
Follow city boundary around Western part of city to Old Decker Road/Willow
Street; North on Old Decker Road/Willow Street to corner of Willow Street and
15th Street.
   (D)   District IV.  South at corner of 15th Street and Willow Street to city
boundary; Follow city boundary around Southwest part of city to US Highway 41;
West US 41 to Wabash Avenue; North Wabash Avenue to corner of Wabash Avenue and
St. Clair Street; North on St. Clair Street to corner of St. Clair Street and
14th Street; West on 14th Street to corner of 14th Street and Wabash Avenue;
North on Wabash Avenue to corner of Wabash Avenue and 12th Street; West on 12th
Street to corner of 12th Street and Hart Street; South on Hart Street to corner
of Hart Street and 15th Street; West on 15th Street to corner of 15th Street
and Hart Street.
   (E)   District V. South at corner of 12th Street and Wabash Avenue to corner
of Wabash and 14th Street; East on 14th Street to corner of 14th Street and St.
Clair Street; South on St. Clair St. corner of St. Clair and Wabash Avenue;
South on Wabash Avenue to US Highway 41; East on US 41 around Southeast side of
City boundary to corner of US 41 and Old Bruceville Road; West on Old
Bruceville Road to corner of Old Bruceville Road and Niblack Boulevard; South
on Niblack Boulevard to corner of Niblack Boulevard and Washington Avenue; West
on Washington Avenue to corner of Washington Avenue and Ridgeway Street; South
on Ridgewasy Street to corner of Ridegway Street and 12th Street; West on 12th
Street to corner of 12th Street and Wabash Avenue.
('71 Code, § 30.01) (Ord. 61-74, passed 12-30-74; Am. Ord. 33-92, passed 12-21-
92; Am. Ord. 28-2002, passed 12-16-02; Am. Ord. 22-2012, passed 11-13-12)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 30.15 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The Common Council shall hold its first regular
meeting on the first Monday in January of each year. Thereafter the Council
shall meet in regular session on the second and fourth Mondays of each month at
7:00 p.m. local time. When any day fixed by this section for the regular
meeting of the Common Council is designated by law as a legal holiday, the
meeting shall be held on the following day, at the times specified. The Council
may agree by majority vote to dispense with any regular session or to change
the day or hour of any meeting, but the Council shall meet at least once each
month.
('71 Code, § 29.02(A)) (Am. Ord. 1-96, passed 1-9-96)
   (B)   Special meetings; emergency meetings.
      (1)   Special meetings of the Council may be held on call of the Mayor,
President Pro-Tempore or any three members of the Council. It shall be the duty
of the President Pro-Tempore or the members calling the special session to
notify the City Clerk-Treasurer of the meeting, of its date, hour and agenda.
The City Clerk-Treasurer shall, at least 48 hours before the time set for the
meeting, notify each member of the Council, either in person, by telephone or
by notice left at the member's place of residence. Notice shall be given at
least 48 hours in advance of the meeting to the news media and to the public as
required by state law.
      (2)   Emergency meetings may be held provided there is compliance with
the notice requirements of state law.
      (3)   At special or emergency meetings of Council, only such matters of
business as are specifically stated in the call for the meeting may be
conducted or acted upon.
('71 Code, § 29.02(B))
   (C)   Budget meetings. Each year on or before the last Monday in August, the
Council shall meet at 7:30 p.m. local time to fix the budget.
('71 Code, § 29.02(C))
(Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 2-88, passed 2-22-88)
§ 30.16 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; DUTIES OF PRESIDING OFFICER AND PRESIDENT PRO-
TEMPORE.
   (A)   Election of officers. The City Executive shall preside at all meetings
of the Common Council. At its first regular meeting on the first Monday of each
succeeding January, the Council shall choose from its members a President Pro-
Tempore.
   (B)   Duties of Presiding City Executive. The Presiding Officer shall rule
on all points of order subject to an appeal to the Council by any two members,
shall state all questions properly proposed, shall put all questions which come
to a vote and shall declare the results of each vote. After any ordinance,
resolution, address or order is adopted by the Council, the Presiding Officer
shall certify the action and certification shall be attested by the Clerk-
Treasurer. The Presiding Officer shall preserve order and decorum in the
Council chambers. The Presiding Officer may take part in debate by passing the
chair to the President Pro-Tempore and announcing “The chair wishes to speak.”
   (C)   Duties of President Pro-Tempore.
      (1)   The President Pro-Tempore shall appoint all standing committees at
the first meeting in January or as soon thereafter as possible; provided that
the standing committees shall serve only during the term of the President Pro-
Tempore. The President Pro-Tempore shall appoint all special committees which
may be ordered by the Council and fill all temporary and permanent vacancies
which may occur in any of the standing or special committees. The President
Pro-Tempore shall exercise any power or perform a function proper and necessary
for the effective and efficient operation and function of the Council.
      (2)   It shall be the prerogative of the President Pro-Tempore to assign
an ordinance and/or resolution to a standing or special committee. The
President Pro-Tempore, or a Council member he designates, shall preside when
the City Executive is absent or relinquishes the chair. The President
ProTempore shall sit to the Mayor's right at all Council meetings.
('71 Code, § 29.01) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-88)
§ 30.17 PARLIAMENTARY AUTHORITY.
   All meetings of the Common Council and its committees shall be conducted in
accordance with the procedures set forth in “Robert's Rules of Order” except
where a different procedure is required by state law, this chapter or other
ordinances of the city. A majority of the members of the Council shall decide
all matters of procedure not covered by the authority stated in this section.
('71 Code, § 29.02(D)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88)
§ 30.18 AMENDMENT AND SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   These rules may be suspended by a two-thirds vote of the members of the
Common Council. If a rule is suspended, a majority of the members present shall
decide procedure to follow in lieu of the suspended rule. The power to suspend
these rules shall not apply to rules which are required by state or federal
statutory or constitutional law.
('71 Code, § 29.02 (E)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88)
§ 30.19 CONVENING MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Presiding Officer shall take the chair at the hour designated for
convening and shall call the members to order. The roll shall then be called by
the City Clerk-Treasurer who shall enter in the minutes of the meeting the
names of members present.
   (B)   A majority of the members of the Common Council shall constitute a
quorum. If the roll call establishes that a quorum is present, the Presiding
Officer shall proceed in the manner and order prescribed by this chapter. In
the absence of a quorum, the members present may, by a majority vote of those
present, adjourn, set a time at which to adjourn, or take a recess.
('71 Code, § 29.02(F)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord, 288, passed 2-22-
88)
§ 30.20 SEATING OF MEMBERS.
   Members shall occupy the seats assigned them by the President Pro-Tempore,
but any two or more members may exchange seats by joining in a written
memorandum to that effect.
('71 Code, § 29.02(G)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88)
§ 30.21 LIMITS ON DEBATE.  
   No member shall speak more than once on a question until every other member
has had the opportunity to speak and shall be limited to five minutes. Debate
cannot be closed so long as any member having pertinent input on the topic
desire the floor, except by order of the Common Council which requires a two-
thirds vote.
('71 Code, § 29.02(H)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88; Am. Ord. 19-95, passed 12-18-95)
§ 30.22 ABSENCE FROM MEETING; LEAVING MEETING IN SESSION.
   No member shall be absent from a properly convened meeting of the Common
Council without notifying the City Clerk-Treasurer or Mayor. Any member
desiring to be excused while the Council is in session shall notify the
Presiding Officer.
('71 Code, § 29.02(I)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88)
§ 30.23 ORDERLINESS OF MEMBERS.
   Members shall confine their remarks to the questions under consideration and
avoid differences of personalities.
('71 Code, § 29.02(J)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88)
§ 30.24 RIGHT TO EXPRESS DISSENT.
   Any member shall have the right to express dissent from or protest against
any ordinance or resolution and have the reason entered into the record. This
dissent or protest shall be in respectful language and may be filed in writing
and presented to the Common Council not later than the next regular meeting
following the date of passage of the ordinance or resolution.
('71 Code, § 29.02(L)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88)
§ 30.25 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   In the event a Common Council member would be required to take any action
that would directly affect the financial interest of that member other than an
interest of minimal nature or an interest that is not distinct from that of the
general public, the member shall either explain the potential conflict and ask
that he be excused from voting, deliberating or taking action on the matter, or
explain the potential conflict and state why he is able to participate fairly,
objectively and in the public interests despite the personal conflict.
('71 Code, § 29.02(K)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88)
§ 30.26 ADDRESS ON PERSONAL PRIVILEGE. 
   The right of a member to address the Common Council on a question of
personal privilege shall be limited to cases in which integrity, character or
motives are assailed, questioned or impugned.
('71 Code, § 29.02(N)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88)
§ 30.27 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The following order of business shall be observed by the Common Council at
its meetings:
   (A)   Calling the roll.
   (B)   Approving the previous meeting's minutes.
   (C)   Hearing of petitions, memorials and remonstrances.
   (D)   Reports of standing or special committees.
   (E)   Reports of city officers.
   (F)   Ordinances on a second or third reading, or resolutions previously
referred to committee.
   (G)   Introduction of ordinances.
   (H)   Introduction of resolutions.
   (I)   Approval of claims.
   (J)   Unfinished and miscellaneous business.
('71 Code, § 29.05(C)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88)
§ 30.28 COUNCIL AGENDA.
   (A)   An agenda of the order of the business of the regular meeting shall be
prepared by the Clerk- Treasurer no later than closing time on the Thursday
before a Monday meeting.
   (B)   Prior to any regular meeting on Monday evening, persons wishing to
introduce matters for the consideration of the Common Council shall do so in
writing with the Clerk-Treasurer not later than the closing 12:00 noon on the
Wednesday preceding the regularly scheduled meeting on Monday evening. All
written material submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer for consideration by the
Council will begin with a Title block that includes an ordinance or resolution
number assigned by the Clerk-Treasurer, a line indicating the author of the
legislation, and a brief synopsis of the content.
   (C)   All ordinances to be tendered for passage shall be filed in not less
than 15 copies, and all matters of inquiry from persons appearing before the
Council not in ordinance or resolution form shall be reduced to writing in
memorandum form describing the nature of the inquiry, the memoranda to be filed
in 15 copies.
('71 Code, § 30.02) (Res. 4-68, passed 4-8-68; Am. Ord. 6-2001, passed 4-9-01)
§ 30.29 VOTING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All votes upon the passage of ordinances and resolutions, upon motions
to suspend the rules, and upon motions to reconsider shall be by roll call
vote. Any two members may demand a roll call vote upon any question to be voted
upon by the Common Council and when the demand is made, the City Clerk-
Treasurer shall call the roll.
   (B)   The Council may, by a majority vote of the members present, adopt any
method for tabulating the vote including a random or alphabetical order of
calling the roll.
   (C)   During a roll call vote on any question it shall be out of order for
any member to offer remarks as a member is voting other than a short and
concise explanation of his vote. After a roll call vote, it shall be out of
order for any member to offer any remarks on the question that had been voted
upon.
   (D)   Members should vote on all questions before the Council but may
abstain in voting on any issue in situations where there is a conflict of
interest or for other good cause.
   (E)   Any member may change a vote before the result is announced, and
afterwards by leave of the Council provided that the change will not affect the
result.
('71 Code, § 29.05(A)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88)
§ 30.30 APPOINTMENTS TO BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   Vacancies on boards and commissions to be filled by the Common Council shall
be filled by a majority vote of the members in a properly convened session of
the Council.
('71 Code, § 29.05(B)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88)
§ 30.31 MOTIONS.
   (A)   Motions generally.
      (1)   When a motion is made and seconded it shall be stated by the
Presiding Officer before it shall be debated. The name of the member making the
motion or offering any business shall be entered into the minutes.
      (2)   A motion may be withdrawn by the maker, but if there is any
objection to the withdrawal, it may not be withdrawn until a motion to that
effect has been passed.
      (3)   Every motion except procedural motions shall be reduced to writing
upon request of any member.
('71 Code, § 29.05(D))
   (B)   Motions when question is under debate. When a question is under
debate, no motion other than pertinent, incidental motions shall be entertained
except to adjourn or recess, to lay on the table, for the previous question, to
postpone for a definite time, to refer to committee, to amend, or to postpone
indefinitely, which motion shall have precedence in the order above named and
only the motion to postpone for a definite time, to refer to committee, to
amend, and to postpone indefinitely, shall be debatable.
('71 Code, § 29.05(E))
   (C)   Motions for the previous question. A motion for the previous question
shall only be admitted when demanded by a two-thirds vote, until it is decided,
shall preclude all further amendments and debate on the main question and the
demand of the previous question shall be to bring the Common Council to a vote
on the immediate question under discussion.
('71 Code, § 29.05(F))
   (D)   Motion to adjourn or recess.
      (1)   A motion to adjourn or recess shall be decided without debating and
shall be in order at any time except when it is repeated without intervening
business or discussion, or when a member is speaking, when the previous
question has been ordered or during a roll call. A motion to recess shall take
precedence over a motion to adjourn.
      (2)   No legislation may be introduced for Common Council action after
10:30 p.m. local time without a two-thirds vote of the members of the Council.
('71 Code, § 29.05(G)
   (E)   Division of question. Any member may move that a question under
consideration covering two or more distinct proposals be divided. If the motion
is adopted by a majority of the members present the question shall be divided.
('71 Code, § 29.05(H))
   (F)   Motion to table. A motion to lay a question under consideration on the
table shall take precedent over all amendments or debate of the question. Any
matter laid on the table may be taken up by a vote of the Council at any
meeting after the meeting at which it is tabled. The motion to table may not be
debated.
('71 Code, § 29.05(I))
   (G)   Motion to postpone indefinitely. If a motion to postpone indefinitely
is adopted or a motion to reconsider a negative vote has been laid on the
table, the main question shall be declared defeated and removed from the agenda
before the Council for that session.
('71 Code, § 29.05(J))
   (H)   Motion to reconsider. When any question has been decided in the
affirmative or negative, any member voting with the majority may move a
reconsideration of the vote before adjournment. Concurrence of the majority of
the members present shall be sufficient to order reconsideration of a vote, but
if a motion to reconsider is defeated it shall not again be entertained.
('71 Code, § 29.05(K))
(Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-88)
§ 30.32 DECORUM; PROTOCOL.
   (A)   Podium. All persons addressing the Common Council shall stand before
the podium and state their name and legal address. The podium will be placed in
front of the Council proper.
   (B)   Press seating. The large table located on the south side of the
Council chambers will be reserved for the press only.
   (C)   Clerk-Treasurer's office seating. The small table located on the north
side of the Council chambers will be reserved for the Clerk-Treasurer's office
and City Attorney.
('71 Code, § 29.06) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-88)
§ 30.33 VIOLATION OF RULES.
   If any member, in speaking or otherwise, transgresses the rules of Common
Council or the limits of debate, the Presiding Officer or any other member may
call the member to order and that member shall immediately surrender the floor.
The Council shall, if there is an appeal by the member called to order, decide
the question without debate. Only if the decision is in favor of the member
called to order shall the member be at liberty to proceed.
('71 Code, § 29.02(M)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88)
§ 30.34 EXPULSION OF MEMBER.
   The Common Council has the power to expel any of its members for violation
of official duty and it may declare the seat of any member vacant by reason of
disability to perform official duties.
('71 Code, § 29.02(O)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88)
§ 30.35 INVESTIGATORY POWERS.
   The Common Council shall have the power to investigate all departments,
officers and employees of the city. The investigation shall be conducted in
accordance with the rules and procedures set forth in I.C. 36-4-6-21.
('71 Code, § 29.02(P)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88)
COMMITTEES
§ 30.45 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Establishment. To facilitate the transaction of business, the Common
Council may by resolution establish standing committees and define the duties
and responsibilities of each committee. If those committees are established,
the President Pro-Tempore shall appoint at least three Council members to each
committee, observing the preference of each member as closely as possible, and
shall appoint a chair-person for each committee. Legislation and questions
before the Council may be referred for investigation and report to the standing
committees and the committees may investigate other areas within their
jurisdiction. All Council members may attend the meetings of any standing
committee but only those members who have been appointed to the committee shall
be permitted to vote on questions before the committee. The Council may create
or abolish standing committees by adoption of subsequent resolutions.
('71 Code, § 29.03(A))
   (B)   Meetings. A committee shall meet on call of its chairperson or any two
of its members. Notice shall be communicated by the City Clerk-Treasurer who
shall keep a record of those notices. A majority of the membership of a
committee shall constitute a quorum which shall be necessary to conduct
business by the committee. The chairperson may act as secretary of the meeting
or the committee may appoint a secretary, who shall keep a memorandum of the
proceedings and recommendations made at the committee meeting. At committee
meetings the rules of debate shall be relaxed in order to encourage discussion
but general procedural decorum shall prevail. The committee shall make a
written report to the Council.
('71 Code, § 29.03(B))
(Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-88)
§ 30.46 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   Any three Common Council members or the President Pro-Tempore may form a
special committee for any specific purpose proper for Council consideration.
The committee shall cease to function when it has completed its duties and made
a report or recommendation to the Council.
('71 Code, § 29.03(C)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88)
§ 30.47 COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE.
   The Common Council may by majority vote to resolve itself into a committee
of the whole to consider ordinances, resolutions or other matters with the
freedom of committee procedures. When the Council resolves itself into a
committee of the whole, the President Pro-Tempore shall preside.
('71 Code, § 29.03(D)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88)
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 30.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ORDINANCE. Any legislation dealing with the government of the city, the
control of the city's property and finances and the appropriation of money.
   RESOLUTION. Any other matter submitted for passage not under the definition
of an “ordinance.”
('71 Code, § 29.04(C)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88)
§ 30.61 TITLE AND ENACTING CLAUSE FOR ORDINANCES.
   Each ordinance to be submitted to the Common Council shall have a title
indicating the nature, subject matter and enacting clause in substantially the
following style: “BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
VINCENNES, KNOX COUNTY, INDIANA, THAT [. . .]”
('71 Code, § 29.04(A)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88)
§ 30.62 FILING AND COPIES OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Each ordinance or resolution submitted to the Common Council shall be
typewritten on 8-½ inch by 11 inch legal paper accompanied by any relevant
documents, and filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer by Wednesday noon before the
meeting at which the legislation is to be introduced. The President Pro-Tempore
shall approve the agenda and the City Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare and have
distributed copies of the agenda and legislation to the Council members, Mayor
and City Attorney. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare copies of the agenda
and legislation for the news media.
('71 Code, § 29.04(B)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88)
§ 30.63 READINGS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every ordinance shall be given three readings before a vote may be
taken on its passage and no ordinance shall be passed on the same day or at the
same meeting as it is introduced except by unanimous consent of the members
present, at least two-thirds of the members being present and voting. An
ordinance may not be debated or amended at its first reading or introduction
unless state or federal requirements provide otherwise.
   (B)   At each reading of an ordinance the City Clerk-Treasurer shall read
the ordinance by title only provided there is unanimous consent.
   (C)   Each resolution submitted to the Common Council shall be read by title
only provided there is unanimous consent and may be passed at the same meeting
that it is introduced by majority vote.
('71 Code, § 29.04(D)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88)
§ 30.64 VOTE REQUIRED.
   A majority vote of the members of the Common Council shall be necessary to
adopt any resolution, order or ordinance unless state or federal requirements
provide otherwise.
('71 Code, § 29.04(E)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88)
§ 30.65 PUBLIC INSPECTION AND PUBLICATION.
   (A)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall, within 24 hours after the first
reading of an ordinance or resolution, deposit such for the purpose of public
inspection copies of the ordinance at the City Clerk-Treasurer's office.
   (B)   All ordinances and resolutions passed by the Common Council shall be
recorded by the Clerk-Treasurer and due proof of publication of all ordinances
requiring publication shall be attained by the Clerk-Treasurer and attached to
the original ordinance. All ordinances and resolutions shall be made available
for public inspection and copying at all times during regular business hours.
The City Clerk-Treasurer's office may charge a nominal fee for copying of that
material.
('71 Code, § 29.04(F)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88)
§ 30.66 AMENDMENT OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   The following rules shall govern the Common Council when considering
proposals for amendment of ordinances and resolutions:
   (A)   All amendments to resolutions or ordinances must be reduced to writing
before they may be considered to be properly presented before the Council;
   (B)   An amendment must be germane to the proposition to which it is to
apply;
   (C)   A primary amendment may be amended, but a secondary amendment may not
be amended;
   (D)   When adopted, an amendment merely modifies the proposition or question
to which it applies and the question before the Council is then the
consideration of the proposal or question as amended; and
   (E)   An amendment once rejected may not be moved again in the same meeting
of the Council without first reconsidering the vote by which the amendment was
defeated.
('71 Code, § 29.04(G)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88)
§ 30.67 VETO PROCEDURE.
   In the event the Mayor disapproves an ordinance, order or resolution
requiring mayoral approval he shall notify each Common Council member in
writing outlining the reasons for exercising the veto. The ordinance, order or
resolution shall not become law unless at the next properly convening meeting
or special meeting held at least ten days following presentation of the
ordinance, order or resolution to the Mayor the Council again passes the
ordinance, order or resolution by two-thirds vote of all members of the
Council.
('71 Code, § 29.04(H)) (Ord. 48-85, passed - - 85; Am. Ord. 288, passed 2-22-
88)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Salaries
   
31.02   Surety bonds for officials and employees
   
31.03   Payroll and work schedules
   
31.04   Employee benefits
   
31.05   Credit card policies
   
31.06   Conflict of interest and nepotism
   31.07   De minimis gift threshold
Elected City Officials
   
31.15   Salaries for elective officials
   
31.16   Clerk-Treasurer authorized to make payments
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.30   City Attorney
   
31.31   Offices of City Inspector and City Engineer combined
   
31.32   Superintendent of Sewers
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 SALARIES.
   As required by I.C. 36-4-7-3 and 36-8-3-3, the maximum compensation amounts
for the herein named employees of the city have been fixed and continue until
duly changed. The salaries listed are up to the amounts listed, but could be
lesser amounts except for elected officials.
   OFFICE OF THE MAYOR
   Mayor ($59,676 and USB $15,000)                $74,676
   Administrative Assistant                      $45,249
   Executive Secretary                         $44,958
   CLERK-TREASURER
   Clerk-Treasurer ($50,572 and USB $15,000)             $65,572
   Chief Deputy                            $41,391
   Deputy Clerk                            $38,008
   Part-time @ $11 per hour                      $2,000
   CITY COUNCIL
   Council Member                         $7,259
   POLICE MERIT
   Merit Board members                     $1,500
   BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS
   Board of Public Works Members                    $1,731
   CITY ATTORNEY
   City Attorney                            $44,082
   Steno/Help                            $7,000
   CITY ENGINEER
      ($66,950 + $15,000 and USB $15,000+ $15,000 RDC)      $96,950
   Cell phone allowance                     $580
   BOARD OF ZONING AND APPEALS
   Board of Zoning and Appeals Members                $312
   Secretary                           $312
   BUILDING INSPECTOR
   Inspector                            $45,092
   Secretary ($14.92 per hour)                   $22,513
   Code Enforcement Officer                     $8,402.74
   POLICE DEPARTMENT 
   Police Chief                            $64,817
   Assistant Chief                         $59,116
   Major                               $57,302
   Secretary                            $37,080
   Captain                            $54,620
   Lieutenant                            $52,096
   Sergeant                            $49,713
   Patrol First                            $47,777
   Patrol Second                         $46,378
   Rookie                            $46,053
   BS Degree                            $1,000
   AS Degree                           $500
   Computer Tech                        $300
   DARE instructor                         $300
   Firearms instructor                        $300
   Field training officer                         $300
   K9                               $4,635
   Public information officer                      $300
   Tactical instructor                        $300
   Vehicle instructor                        $300
   Different shift pay/$80 per pay                   $40,000
   Holiday pay three days @ $100 per holiday times 37          $11,100
   Overtime                            $65,000
   Breath                               $300
   Dispatcher                            $37,230
   Police Officers Clothing allowance                $1,200
   Police Dispatcher Clothing allowance               $400
   MVH DEPARTMENT
   Superintendent                         $55,550
   Assistant Superintendent                      $42,052
   Operators                            $37,651
   Foreman                            $42,045
   Laborers                            $36,743
   CEMETERY DEPARTMENT
   Superintendent                         $47,512.87
   Operators                             $37,643
   Laborer                            $37,643
   Secretary                            $33,459
   Board Members                         $300
   Overtime                            $5,000
   SANITATION
   Operator                            $37,651
   Laborers                            $36,743
   ANIMAL CONTROL
   Animal Control Director                      $46,406
   Animal Control Officers (2)                      $35,784
   Animal Control Officer Assistant Director                $37,948
   Full time after hours call out stipend                $2,000
   FIRE PENSION
   Secretary                            $2,087
   POLICE PENSION
   Secretary                           $2,087
   RENTAL HOUSING
   Rental Inspector                        $10,300
   Rental Officer                         $4,873
   FIRE DEPARTMENT
   Fire Chief                           $64,817
   Assistant Fire Chief                        $59,116
   Battalion Chief                        $57,302
   CTO                              $54,620
   CSC                              $52,096
   CSO                              $52,096
   CPT/SPC/OP                        $52,096
   LT                              $49,713
   PFC                              $47,777
   PSC                              $46,378
   RFF                              $46,053
   Holiday pay three days at $100 per by 37            $11,100
   EMT BLS                           $400
   EMT ALS                           $400
   Clothing allowance                         $1,200
   PARK AND RECREATION
   Director                           $44,427
   Maintenance Director                     $39,910
   Secretary                           $12,625
   Cell phone allowance                     $580
   Board members                        $300
   K.C. AREA PLAN BOARD
   Member (1) at $50 per meeting                  $600
   NON-EXEMPT HOURLY CLASSIFICATIONS/RATES
   Street/Sanitation
      Working foreman per hour                  $20.21
      Laborers per hour                      $17.66
      Truck drivers/operators per hour                $18.10
      Street Department, part-time per hour             $11.00
   Cemetery
      Cemetery part-time per hour                $11.00
      Operators per hour                       $18.10
   Other
      Park and Recreation Department part time per hour      $11.00
      Pool Manager                       $13.00
      Assistant Pool Manager                   $12.00
      Head life guard                     $11.50
      Life guard                        $11.00
      Concessions Manager                  $12.00
      Concessions and gate workers               $9.00
      Clerk-Treasurer part time per hour            $11.00
      Animal welfare, part time per hour            $11.00
      Rental housing part time per hour                $14.92
      City Inspector part-time per hour                $14.92
   Longevity Pay. All employees classified as full-time of the city shall
receive a reward for continued years of service as determined and appropriated
by Council in each year's budget.
            5 - 9 years                $100
            10 - 14 years                $200
            15 - 19 years                $300
            20 - 25+ years            $1,000
   All hours over 40 hours. Employees shall receive 1.5 x hourly rate or
compensatory time off per FLSA.
   Miscellaneous.
   The base starting salary for Department Heads, with the exception of the
Police Chief and the Fire Chief, shall be at the discretion of the Mayor.
   Employees will be reimbursed mileage equal to state employees for the use of
a personal vehicle in connection with authorized job responsibilities.
   The members of the Board of Public Works and Safety who are elected
officials, and the City Attorney, are not eligible for compensation as members.
The city employees serving as members of the Board of Public Works and Safety
whose offices or principal duties are not in the City Hall are entitled to
compensation.
   Employees of the Parks and Recreation Department: an additional $0.05 to
$0.10 may be added to a returning part-time employee's hourly rate at the
Director's discretion.
   All employees are paid bi-weekly every other Friday. Each paycheck will
include earnings for all work performed through the end of the previous payroll
period.
   The salary herein fixed for the City Attorney does not include legal
services connected with a bond issue, a utilities rate adjustment, condemnation
proceedings for rights-of-way or litigation services beyond the defense of city
ordinances. Such legal service shall be compensated additionally as determined
by the Mayor and the Board of Public Works and Safety or other involved
agencies.
('71 Code, § 32.02) (Am. Ord. 20-99, passed 8-9-99; Am. Ord. 21-2000, passed 8-
14-00; Am. Ord. 1-2001, passed 1-22-01; Am. Ord. 12-2001, passed 6-25-01; Am.
Ord. 20-2001, passed 9-10-01; Am. Ord. 6-2002, passed 4-22-02; Am. Ord. 17-
2002, passed 9-9-02; Am. Ord. 18- 2003, passed 9-8-03; Am. Ord. 21-2003, passed
12-15-03; Am. Ord. 11- 2004, passed 9-13-04; Am. Ord. 12-2004, passed 11-8-04;
Am. Ord. 13- 2004, passed 11-8-04; Am. Ord. 15-2004, passed 12-13-04; Am. Ord.
3- 2005, passed 2-28-05; Am. Ord. 13-2005, passed 9-12-05; Am. Ord. 18- 2005,
passed 12-19-05; Am. Ord. 19-2005, passed 12-19-05; Am. Ord. 20-2005, passed
12-19-05; Am. Ord. 15-2006, passed 9-25-06; Am. Ord. 14-2007, 9-24-2007; Am.
Ord. 17-2007, passed 12-10-2007; Am. Ord. 12-2008, passed 9-22-08; Am. Ord. 20-
2008, passed 11-24-08; Am. Ord. 24-2008, passed 11-29-08; Am. Ord. 2-2009,
passed 3-23-09; Am. Ord. 5-2009, passed 6-22-2009; Am. Ord. 11-2009, passed 10-
26-09; Am. Ord. 14-2009, passed 12-14-09; Am. Ord. 18-2009, passed 12-28-09;
Am. Ord. 1-2010, passed 1-25-10; Am. Ord. 22-2010, passed 9-27-10; Am. Ord. 26-
2010, passed 12-13-10; Am. Ord. 10-2011, passed 9-26-11; Am. Ord. 19-2011,
passed 11-14-11; Am. Ord. 27-2011, passed 12-12-11; Am. Ord. 34-2015, passed 3-
14-16; Am. Ord. 35-2015, passed 3-14-16; Am. Ord. 1-2016, passed 1-11-16; Am.
Ord. 2-2016, passed 1-11-16; Am. Ord. 48- 2016, passed 10-24-16; Am. Ord. 61-
2016, passed 12-29-16; Am. Ord. 62-2016, passed 12-29-16; Am. Ord. 1-2017,
passed 1-9-17; Am. Ord. 10-219, passed 10-29-19; Am. Ord. 14-2020, passed 10-
13-20; Am. Ord. 16-2021, passed 10-25-21)
§ 31.02 SURETY BONDS FOR OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES. 
   (A)   Each of the elective and appointive officers, heads of departments,
assistants and other employees of the city, hereinafter named, shall execute a
bond payable to the city, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the
duties of his respective office, and for the payment and transfer to the proper
person of all moneys and property received by him as that officer, head of
department, assistant or employee. These bonds shall be as set by the Common
Council.
('71 Code, § 32.03)
   (B)   Each of the bonds provided for in this title shall have as surety
thereon a reliable and responsible surety company authorized to do business in
the state. These bonds shall be subject to the approval of the Mayor and Common
Council and filed with the Clerk-Treasurer except that the bond of the Mayor,
as a member of the Board of Public Works and Safety, shall be approved by
Council only, and the bond of the Clerk-Treasurer shall be filed with the
Mayor. The cost of all bonds of city officials and employees required by this
title or by statute shall be paid out of the General Fund.
('71 Code, § 32.04)
   (C)   All bonds herein provided for shall be filed within ten days after the
beginning of the term for which the officers, heads of departments, assistants
and employees shall have been elected or appointed respectively.
('71 Code, § 32.05)
§ 31.03 PAYROLL AND WORK SCHEDULES.
   (A)   Pay period. All employees will be paid biweekly.
   (B)   Payroll deductions. Deductions from pay checks will include:
      (1)   Mandatory: Federal, state and local taxes, and insurance premium
contributions established in the annual budget by the common council.
      (2)   Voluntary: Savings bonds, insurance premiums or any other
deductions will be deducted from the pay check upon written authorization by
the employee.
   (C)   Work schedule. The following schedule shall apply to all employees
except those on the Fire Department and the Police Department. The designated
hours of work for each department will be recommended by the Superintendent or
chief with approval from the Board of Public Works and Safety or either
Governing Board.
      (1)   Eight hours shall constitute a legal day's work for all employees.
      (2)   There will be a 60 minute lunch period, unless recommended
differently by the superintendent or chief, with approval from the Board of
Public Works and Safety or other governing Board. In those instances where the
employee is unable to take scheduled lunch break, special arrangements will be
made by the Superintendent or chief to ensure that the employee will have the
opportunity to eat lunch.
      (3)   A 15 minute rest period will be allowed the employee in each half
shift.
      (4)   An employee shall be paid overtime for any hours worked more than
40 hours, within a seven day work week. At the option of the city, the employee
shall be paid time and one-half for all overtime, or given one and one-half
hours off in lieu of payment for overtime worked.
      (5)   Exempt from overtime pay are elected officials, appointees,
advisors and personnel staff members.
      (6)   Members of the Fire Department shall work 24 hour shifts and a
total of 212 hours in each 28-day period. They will be paid overtime pay or
compensatory time for any hours worked in excess of 212 in any 28-day period.
      (7)   Members of the Police Department shall work eight hour days on a
schedule of five days work and two days off and five days work and three days
off. They will be paid overtime or given comp time for any hours worked in
excess of 40 hours in any said work period.
      (8)   Members of the Police Radio Dispatch Department shall work eight
hour days on a schedule of five days work and two days off. They will be paid
overtime or given comp time, at the discretion of the city, for any hours work
in excess of 40 hours in any said work period.
   In addition, each member shall receive one day off per month to be scheduled
at the discretion of the Vincennes Police Chief and which shall be in lieu of
holidays.
(Ord. 30-94, passed 11-29-94; Am. Ord. 1-2021, passed 1-11-21)
§ 31.04 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS.
   (A)   Sick leave.
      (1)   All employees earn one day of paid sick leave per month for a total
of 12 in a calendar year and carry over an unlimited amount of accumulated sick
leave from one year to the next. One day shall equal the number of hours in the
normal work shift of the employee at the time the sick leave is used. In order
to qualify for sick leave pay, the employee must comply with the following
conditions:
         (a)   Employees unable to report to work due to illness must promptly
notify their department head/supervisor.
         (b)   Employees shall keep their department head/supervisor informed
of the extent of their illness and anticipated day of return.
         (c)   An employee receiving Workman's Compensation Benefits shall not
be required to use up his or her sick days.
         (d)   No employee will be paid for unused sick leave upon separation
from city service for any reason.
         (e)   Sick leave can be used for physician's and dentist's
appointments, provided the employee gives at least two days' advance notice.
         (f)   All absences must be approved by the department head.
         (g)   Supervisors may require workers who are absent for three
consecutive days to provide a doctor’s statement or other acceptable proof of
illness, to use accumulated sick leave.
         (h)   Employees transferring from one department to another, without a
break in service, shall transfer their accrued sick days with them.
         (i)   Sick leave may be taken in one hour increments.
   (B)   Holidays. The city holiday calendar is set and approved by the Board
of Works. In observance of each authorized holiday, both full-time and part-
time employees will normally be granted the day off from work. Only full-time
employees shall receive straight-time holiday pay for each authorized holiday.
      (1)   Due to the work schedules of the Police and Fire Departments,
employees in these departments are excluded from holiday leave with pay.
   (C)   Vacations. The purpose of paid annual vacation leave is to allow and
encourage all employees to renew their physical and mental capabilities and to
remain fully productive. Full-time employees are provided annual vacation leave
during each year to achieve this purpose. Part-time employees are not eligible
for paid vacation leave.
      (1)   All full time employees shall qualify for vacations as follows:
         (a)   During the first year of service - three days*.
            * Fire Department (24-hour shift employees) - one vacation day is
24 hours and three vacation days shall constitute one week of vacation.
         (b)   Starting the second year to the completion of third year - one
week.
         (c)   Starting the fourth year to the completion of fifth year - two
weeks.
         (d)   Starting the sixth year to the completion of tenth year - three
weeks.
         (e)   Starting the eleventh year to completion of fifteenth year -
four weeks.
         (f)   Starting the sixteenth year and thereafter - five weeks.
         (g)   One vacation day equals the number of hours in the normal work
day of the employee at the time the vacation day is used. Each week of vacation
shall consist of five calendar days, except for Fire Department 24-hour shift
employees and Police Department employees.
            1.   Police Department - seven days shall constitute one week of
vacation.
      (2)   Vacation leave is computed from the initial date of employment,
provided the employment relationship has been uninterrupted. If an interruption
of employment has occurred, vacation leave credit shall be earned from the most
recent date of hiring.
      (3)   Employees may not use vacation leave credit while on disciplinary
probation.
      (4)   Employees must request vacation leave in advance of its use so that
department heads and chiefs may properly schedule available staff during peak
vacation period.
      (5)   Vacation leave requests must be in writing and must be approved by
the superintendent or chief.
      (6)   An employee separating from city service prior to the completion of
12 months employment will not be eligible to receive payment for accrued
vacation leave. Upon separation from city service, in good standing, an
employee shall be paid for unused vacation for a maximum of five weeks. For an
employee to leave in "good standing," he/she must give two weeks written
notice. Under unusual circumstances and upon the Board of Public Works and
Safety's approval, less time may be considered sufficient, permitting the
employee to leave the service in good standing. Payment for unused vacation
leave, not to exceed five weeks, shall be paid to the beneficiaries of
decreased employee.
      (7)   An employee dismissed from city service forfeits all accrued
vacation leave.
      (8)   Vacation time shall be taken in minimum increments of one day and
must be scheduled in advance and approved by the employee’s department head.
      (9)   If a holiday occurs while an employee is on an approved vacation,
the holiday will not be charged against his or her vacation leave.
      (10)   An employee’s termination date may not be extended to gain
additional paid or unpaid time off (e.g., vacation days).
   (D)   Bereavement/funeral leave.
      (1)   Full time regular employees are entitled to paid bereavement leave
for immediate family members. Employees are eligible for up to a maximum of
five consecutive regularly scheduled working days, and such days must be in
conjunction with the date of the death or the funeral or memorial service.
      (2)   The city defines “immediate family” as the employee’s spouse/
partner/significant other, parent, child, sibling, grandparent and grandchild.
      (3)   This includes employee’s step-parent and step-child.
      (4)   For a married employee, these members of the spouse’s family are
included.
      (5)   Full time regular employees are entitled to one day off paid
bereavement leave for the death of an aunt or uncle and/or employee’s spouse’s
aunt or uncle, and this day must be in conjunction with the date of the death
or the funeral or memorial service. An employee shall receive leave with pay,
not to exceed four hours to attend a funeral if they are a pallbearer.
      (6)   Approval of bereavement leave will occur in the absence of unusual
operating requirements. Employees may, with supervisor’s approval, use any
available paid leave for additional time off as necessary. If necessary,
employees can take time off without pay. This will only be granted after
obtaining approval of the employee’s supervisor.
   (E)   Court leave.
      (1)   An employee who is legally required to report for jury duty, or
serve as a witness, by subpoena, before any body or agency having subpoena
powers, shall be granted leave of absence from his or her position during the
required absence for such duty.
      (2)   When leave of absence is granted for jury duty or to serve as a
witness in matters relating to employment with the city, the employee shall
receive that portion of their regular salary from the city which will, together
with compensation for such court service, equal their total regular salary for
the same period. A copy of the subpoena or the letter directing the employee to
report for jury duty must be furnished to the supervisor and placed in the
employee’s personnel file.
      (3)   An off-duty employee who is legally required to serve as a witness
in matters relating to employment with the city, shall be granted a minimum of
three hours of compensation based on the rate of one and one-half hours times
the number of hours spent in the court.
      (4)   Personal voluntarily service as a witness in lawsuits (w/e/divorce)
must use accrued leave time for such purposes.
   (F)   Personal leave. 
      (1)   Full-time city employees shall be entitled to three personal days
per year. These pursonal days are accrued and given the first pay in January,
May, and September. Personal days are not accumulated from year to year.
      (2)   Use of personal leave must be approved by the department head.
      (3)   Employees must seek approval at least one day in advance of taking
personal leave.
      (4)   Approval for use of personal leave is subject to the operational
demands of the department or office. Personal days are payable at the
employee’s regular hourly rate of pay at the time of leave and must be taken in
minimum of half day increments.
(Ord. 30-94, passed 11-29-94; Am. Ord. 41-96, passed 12-9-96; Am. Ord. 51-98,
passed 12-14-98; Am. Ord. 2-2004, passed 11-22-04; Am. Ord. 16-2005, passed 11-
28-05; Am. Ord. 17-2005, passed 11-28-05; Am. Ord. 23-2021, passed 12-13-21)
§ 31.05 CREDIT CARD POLICIES.
   The Mayor be and he is hereby authorized to make application for credit
cards for use by the executive branch, legislative branch and other authorized
city officials and employees under the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   When not in use, the credit cards shall be maintained in the Mayor's
safe.
   (B)   The Mayor or Mayor's assistants, upon request by a city official/
employee shall issue the credit card for use and shall keep a record showing
the date of issuance, date of return and record of use of card.
   (C)   The credit cards may be used strictly for legitimate city business and
shall never be used for personal purposes. The card shall be used for strictly
legitimate city purposes or services and/or expenditures previously authorized
in the city's various budgets.
   (D)   Claim forms with attached charge receipts shall be processed in a
manner so as to take all reasonable care that no interest, carrying charges or
penalties are incurred due to late payments. All such claims filed in
connection with use of credit cards shall be itemized as provided in I.C. 5-11-
10 before being approved and paid.
   (E)   The city shall obtain credit cards from only one credit card company
and shall request and maintain no more than five credit cards for issuance.
   (F)   Credit cards so issued shall have a maximum limit of $5,000 for all
departments except the Police Department which shall have a limit of $10,000.
However, any purchase exceeding $5,000.00 requires preapproval by the Mayor or
City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (G)   Late fees incurred shall be the personal responsibility of the card
user's department head.
(Ord. 5-96, passed 3-11-96; Am. Ord. 19-2016, passed 4-26-16)
§ 31.06 CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND NEPOTISM.
   (A)   The city finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct with regard to nepotism in the employment with the city and in
contracting with the city in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents and to comply with the new laws effective
July 1, 2012 known as I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, respectively.
   (B)   On July 1, 2012 the city shall have a nepotism and a contracting with
a unit policy that complies with the minimum requirements of I.C. 36-1-20.2
(hereinafter nepotism policy) and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter contracting with a
unit by a relative policy) and implementation will begin.
   (C)   The city's nepotism policy is hereby established effective July 1,
2012 by adopting the minimum requirements provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, and
including all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from
time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein. In
addition a copy of I.C. 36-1-20.2 in effect of July 1 is attached to Resolution
10-2012, passed June 11, 2012.
   (D)   The city contracting with a unit by a relative policy is hereby
established effective July 1, 2012 by adopting the minimum requirements
provisions of I.C. 36-1-21, and including all future supplements and amendments
thereto which become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if
fully set out herein. In addition a copy of I.C. 36-1-21 in effect on July 1 is
attached to Resolution 10-2012, passed June 11, 2012.
   (E)   The city finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements that are more stringent or detailed and that
more detailed is necessary.
   (F)   The city further finds that a single member of the legislative body
cannot act for the body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or a performance evaluation without prior authority of a majority
of the body and therefore without such authority by the majority he or she will
not be in the direct line of supervision. See I.C. 36-4-6-11 and I.C. 36-5-2-
9.4.
   (G)   The city finds that a single member of governing bodies with authority
over employees in the city cannot act for the governing body to make work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement or a performance evaluation
without prior authority of a majority of the body, when a statute provides that
a majority is needed to act, and therefore, without such authority by the
majority the single member will not be in the direct line of supervision. See,
I.C. 36-10-3 et seq., parks; I.C. 23-14-65, cemeteries; I.C. 8-15-3 et seq.,
Utilities Service Board; and all other boards and commissions under Vincennes
Code of Ordinances
Chapter 32.
   (H)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the city are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this section and demonstrate compliance with these same policies.
   (I)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the nepotism policy is a violation and may
result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee or a transfer
from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An elected or
appointed official of the city who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications of the
nepotism policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (J)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the contracting with unit by a relative
policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including termination,
of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
city who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, with the
compliance and with mandated certifications of either the nepotism policy or
the contracting with unit by a relative policy may be subject to action allowed
by law.
   (K)   The policies created by this section are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions: (a) posting a copy of this section
in its entirety in at least one of the locations in the city where it posts
employer posters or other notices to its employees; (b) providing a copy of
this section to its employees and elected and appointed officials; (c)
providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this section; or (d) any such
other action or actions that would communicate the polices established by this
section to its employees and elected and appointed officials. Upon taking any
of these actions these policies are deemed implemented by the city.
   (L)   A copy of the provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 effective
July 1, 2012 are annexed to Resolution 10-2012, passed June 11, 2012.
   (M)   Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21, and as supplemented or
amended, are on file in the office of the Clerk or Clerk-Treasurer for the city
for public inspection as may be required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Res. 10-2012, passed 6-11-12)
§ 31.07 DE MINIMIS GIFT THRESHOLD.
   The City of Vincennes, Indiana recognizes the importance of eliminating
conflict of interest in the conduct of city business. Conflict of interest is
not only against state and Federal regulations, but it is detrimental to the
city's good reputation and the public's confidence in their city government.
The City of Vincennes, Indiana also recognizes the value of collaboration that
occurs at special functions such as conferences, dinners, and golf outings in
which city officials may be guests of one or more vendors that do business with
the city. The City of Vincennes, Indiana, in desiring to fulfill both the
letter and spirit of these regulations, and in accordance with Title 23,
Chapter 1, Subchapter B, Part 172.7, Section 4(iii), therefore establishes the
dollar value threshold of $100 below which any financial interest or value of
any gratuity is not substantial and may be accepted per this policy.
(Ord. 19-2017, passed 5-8-17)
ELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 SALARIES FOR ELECTIVE OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The annual salaries of the Mayor, the Clerk-Treasurer, and each member
of the Common Council, effective at the commencement of the terms of those
officers, payable from the General Fund of the city, shall be at the discretion
of the Common Council.
   (B)   The annual salaries of the Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer herein provided
for shall be paid in 24 equal installments payable on the first and fifteenth
day of each month, for services rendered to those dates. The annual salaries of
members of Council herein provided for shall be paid in monthly installments
payable on the first day of each month for services to those dates.
('71 Code, § 32.01)
§ 31.16 CLERK-TREASURER AUTHORIZED TO MAKE PAYMENTS.
   The City Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to make payment on claims in
advance of the formal allowance of said claims by the Common Council, as
provided and permitted by I.C. 36-4-8-14.
(Ord. 19-97, passed 8-26-97)
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.30 CITY ATTORNEY.
   Under provisions of I.C. 36-4-9-11, as amended, a Department of Law is
established in the city to be headed by a City Attorney who shall be appointed
by the Mayor as provided by law. The City Attorney is authorized by the Common
Council to appoint at no additional cost to the city, one or more Assistant
City Attorneys as he may desire to assist him in any manner in the duties of
handling the office of City Attorney.
('71 Code, § 34.01) (Ord. 8-71, passed 3-22-71)
§ 31.31 OFFICES OF CITY INSPECTOR AND CITY ENGINEER COMBINED.
   There is established the Department of City Inspector which shall be
combined with the office of City Engineer. The Mayor may appoint and fix the
salary of the City Inspector as he shall deem necessary. The duties of the City
Inspector shall be such as are defined in the building, plumbing, electrical
and zoning codes. The City Inspector shall have full charge and supervision of
all installation and maintenance of all electrical equipment of the city.
('71 Code, § 37.01)
§ 31.32 SUPERINTENDENT OF SEWERS.
   (A)   There is created the office of Superintendent of Sewers for the city.
('71 Code, § 38.50)
   (B)   The Superintendent of Sewers shall be appointed by the Mayor and his
term of office shall be for one year, or until a successor has been appointed
and qualified.
('71 Code, § 38.51)
   (C)   The Superintendent of Sewers shall have supervision over all sewers
operated by the city, including any sewage disposal plants, and shall be
accountable to and governed by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
('71 Code, § 38.52)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Board of Public Works and Safety
   
32.001   Establishment
   
32.002   Exhibition of flags and banners
Departments of Streets, Sanitation and Parks
   
32.015   Establishment; Superintendents
   
32.016   Superintendent of Streets; duties
   
32.017   Superintendent of Sanitation; duties
   
32.018   Superintendent of Parks; duties
   
32.019   Salaries
   
32.020   Responsibility of citizens
Department and Board of Parks and Recreation
   
32.030   Establishment
   
32.031   Members of Board; appointment
   
32.032   Officers
   
32.033   General powers of Board
   
32.034   Advisory council
   
32.035   Annual budget; finances
Water Department
   
32.045   Establishment
   
32.046   Reserved
   
32.047   Reserved
   
32.048   Reserved
   
32.049   Reserved
   
32.050   Reserved
   
32.051   Reserved
   
32.052   Powers
Department of Finance
   
32.065   Establishment; Clerk-Treasurer to administer
Redevelopment Department
   
32.080   Establishment
City Plan Commission 
   
32.090   Establishment
   
32.091   Membership; term
Commission on Environmental Quality and Conservation
   
32.115   Definitions
   
32.116   Establishment
   
32.117   Purpose
   
32.118   Membership
   
32.119   Appointment; vacancies
   
32.120   Qualifications
   
32.121   Officers; appointment
   
32.122   Meetings
   
32.123   Powers and duties
Utilities Service Board
   
32.135   Creation; title; objectives
   
32.136   Powers and duties
   
32.137   Membership; appointment
   
32.138   Salary
   
32.139   Removal
   
32.140   Selection of chairman
   
32.141   Power to perform duties
   
32.142   Dissolution of Water Department Board of Trustees
Redevelopment Authority
   
32.150   Creation
   
32.151   Terms and oath of Board
   
32.152   Qualifications
Department of Transportation
   
32.160   Creation
Purchasing Agency
   
32.175   Establishment
   
32.176   Powers and duties
   
32.177   Designation of employees
BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY
§ 32.001 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Under provisions of I.C. 36-4-9-8, a Board and a Department of Public Works
and Safety are established in the city. The Board shall consist of the Mayor,
the City Attorney and the City Engineer. In the event the City Attorney or City
Engineer cannot serve, the Mayor may appoint other qualified department heads
to the Board.
('71 Code, § 35.01)
§ 32.002 EXHIBITION OF FLAGS AND BANNERS.
   (A)   Purpose. To establish guidelines for:
      (1)   The exhibition of the flags of the United States of America, the
Indiana State flag, and the Vincennes City flag from city buildings and light
or service poles owned by the city;
      (2)   The display of street flags for parades and holidays; and
      (3)   The display of ceremonial flags and banners.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   It is the policy of the city that flags should be displayed in
conformance with federal and state policies, as stated in the federal “Our
Flag” publication of the Congress, House Document No. 96-144; and the State of
Indiana Government Code.
      (2)   In order to establish a policy with respect to the locations and
days when the United States of America, Indiana State, and Vincennes City flags
should be displayed, the following standards should be followed.
      (3)   The Board of Works and Public Safety is responsible for ensuring
the proper execution of this policy at all city facilities.
   (C)   Standards.
      (1)   Federal, state, and city flags.
         (a)   Outdoor flags will be flown at city facilities in the following
order of precedence: first, the United States flag; second, the Indiana State
flag; and the third, the Vincennes City flag.
         (b)   Weather permitting, flags should be displayed daily in front of
or at a location near City Hall, the Police Department Building, the City
Garage, Animal Shelter, and all fire facilities during business hours.
(Including any city building structure, or park.)
         (c)   Flags should not be displayed in inclement weather. However,
all-weather flags may be flown on a 24-hour basis as long as they are
illuminated from sunset to sunrise.
         (d)   The Vincennes City flag will be flown wherever there are
sufficient poles to do so in accordance with division (b) above. The city flag
may be displayed on the same pole with, and underneath the state flag, whenever
the pole is of sufficient height. The federal, state, and city flags shall not
be flown on a single pole of any height.
         (e)   New city facilities where any flags are to be flown shall be
constructed with a sufficient number of poles to allow the city flag to be
flown.
         (f)   Indoor city flags shall be displayed at a minimum in the City
Council Chambers and in the Mayor’s Office.
         (g)   On recognized federal and/or state holidays, and on other
special occasions as listed below, flags should be flown from all locations
listed in division (1)(b) above:
            1.   January 1, New Year’s Day;
            2.   Third Monday in January, Martin Luther King’s birthday;
            3.   Third Monday in February, Presidents’ Day;
            4.   Second Sunday in May, Mother’s Day;
            5.   Third Saturday in May, Armed Services Day;
            6.   Last Monday in May, Memorial Day. The flags shall be flown at
half-staff (first raise to top, then slowly lower to half-staff) until noon and
at full staff from noon until sunset. Note: The United States flag must always
be flown by itself when displayed at half-staff;
            7.   Third Sunday in June, Father’s Day;
            8.   June 14, Flag Day;
            9.   July 4, Independence Day;
            10.   First Monday in September, Labor Day;
            11.   September 17, Constitution Day;
            12.   The first Tuesday after the first Monday in November of a
presidential election year and gubernatorial election days;
            13.   November 11, Veteran’s Day;
            14.   Fourth Thursday in November, Thanksgiving Day;
            15.   December 25, Christmas Day;
            16.   State holidays; and
            17.   Special occasions of federal, state and local proclamation.
         (h)   Flags at all city facilities shall be displayed in accordance
with the above standards. However, the Mayor may order flags to be lowered to
half-staff including, but not limited to flags of the United State of America
and State of Indiana in honor of the death of a city employee killed in the
line of duty or other appropriate occasion or in compliance with Gubernatorial
or Presidential Proclamations.
      (2)   Street flags and banners. Street flags are defined as flags flown
on a guy wire over a city street or on city owned utility or light poles. The
guy wire is generally attached to city streetlights and is oriented
perpendicular to the flow of traffic. Street flags or banners may be flown in
the downtown area on Veteran’s Day, Memorial Day and Independence Day, if
requested by a group sponsoring an event on that day and approved by the Board
of Works and Public Safety. Funding for these flags or banners may be provided
by an outside agency or at the city’s expense, depending on the decision of the
Board of Works and Public Safety.
      (3)   Ceremonial flags or banners. The city’s flagpoles are not intended
to serve as a forum for free expression by the public. The following flags or
banners may be displayed by the city as an expression of the city’s official
sentiments:
         (a)   Flags of governments recognized by the United States. Flags of
the governments recognized by the United States may be displayed upon the
request of the Mayor or a member of City Council.
         (b)   Flags of sister cities. The flags of official sister cities of
Vincennes may be displayed in conjunction with an event involving the sister
city.
         (c)   Flags or banners displayed in conjunction with official actions,
ceremonial events or proclamations of the city.
         (d)   The Board of Works may approve banners to be displayed on major
arteries upon application and approval by the Board of Works promoting city
events.
(Ord. passed - -23)
DEPARTMENTS OF STREETS, SANITATION AND PARKS
§ 32.015 ESTABLISHMENT; SUPERINTENDENTS.
   There is hereby created the Department of Streets, Department of Sanitation
and the Department of Parks. There is also hereby established the office of
Superintendent of Streets, Superintendent of Sanitation and Superintendent of
Parks. Each of the three Superintendents shall be appointed by the Mayor; each
shall hold its office at the will of the Mayor and shall be governed generally
in his duties by the rules and orders of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
('71 Code, § 39.01) (Ord. 1326, passed 8-3-66)
§ 32.016 SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS; DUTIES.
   The Superintendent of Streets shall have direction and management of the
upkeep and repair of the streets and alleys of the city, and shall have
supervision over the Street Department employees and equipment. It shall be his
duty to see that the streets and alleys and other public places are kept clear
of encumbrances and obstructions interfering with the free use of same; to
repair, maintain and improve the streets and alleys; to haul and transport any
of the city's goods or property; to keep the streets and alleys free from
obstruction by trees and other foliage; to remove the leaves and snow from
streets and alleys and to do any other things of like nature as shall be
assigned him by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
('71 Code, § 39.02) (Ord. 1326, passed 8-3-66)
§ 32.017 SUPERINTENDENT OF SANITATION; DUTIES.
   The Superintendent of Sanitation shall have supervision over the Sanitation
Department employees and equipment; the collection, removal and disposal of
garbage, refuse, trash, debris and waste throughout the city; and supervision
of landfills and dumps for the disposition of garbage, trash, refuse, debris
and waste collected throughout the city.
('71 Code, § 39.03) (Ord. 1326, passed 8-3-66)
§ 32.018 SUPERINTENDENT OF PARKS; DUTIES.
   The Superintendent of Parks shall have the supervision of the park employees
and equipment, and shall have general supervision of parks, upkeep of
playgrounds and athletic fields and shall cooperate with any civic group or any
other department of the city that may now or hereafter be authorized to
function in respect to playgrounds and athletic fields by the Common Council or
the Board of Public Works and Safety.
('71 Code, § 39.05) (Ord. 1326, passed 8-3-66)
§ 32.019 SALARIES.
   The salaries of the Superintendents of Streets and Sanitation shall be at
the discretion of the Mayor and approved by the Common Council.
('71 Code, § 39.06) (Ord. 1326, passed 8-3-66)
§ 32.020 RESPONSIBILITY OF CITIZENS.
   Nothing herein shall be construed to relieve any citizen of his duty to
properly care for his own property or premises, or to comply with other
provisions concerning handling or disposition of garbage, trash, refuse, debris
and waste accumulated on his own property or premises.
('71 Code, § 39.04) (Ord. 1326, passed 8-3-66)
DEPARTMENT AND BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 32.030 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Department of Parks and Recreation composed of
a Board of Parks and Recreation, a superintendent and any other personnel of
the Board shall determine.
('71 Code, § 42.01) (Ord. 12-68, passed 5-27-68)
§ 32.031 MEMBERS OF BOARD; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Park and Recreation Board shall be composed of four members
appointed by the executive on the basis of their interest in and knowledge of
parks and recreation. No more than two members shall be of the same political
party.
('71 Code, § 42.02) (Ord. 36-83, passed 8-6-83; Am. Ord. 1-1992, passed 2-24-
92)
   (B)   Upon establishment of the Board, the terms initially appointed shall
be:
      (1)   One member for a term of one year;
      (2)   One member for a term of two years;
      (3)   One member for a term of three years;
      (4)   One member for a term of four years.
As a term expires, each new appointment shall be made by the Mayor for a term
of four years. All terms expire on the first Monday in January, but a member
shall continue in office until his successor is appointed. If an appointment
for a new term is not made by the Mayor by the first Monday in April, the
incumbent shall serve another term. If a vacancy occurs, the Mayor shall
appoint a new member for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 2-24-92)
§ 32.032 OFFICERS.
   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board of Parks and Recreation
shall elect a President and a Vice-President. The Vice-President shall have
authority to act as the President of the Board during the absence or disability
of the President. The Board may select a secretary from within or without its
own membership.
('71 Code, § 42.03) (Ord. 12-68, passed 8-6-83; Am. Ord. 1-1992, passed 2-24-
92)
§ 32.033 GENERAL POWERS OF BOARD.
   The Board of Parks and Recreation shall have the power to perform all acts
necessary to acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct those
programs as are generally understood to be park and recreation functions. In
addition, the Board shall have all the powers listed in I.C. 36-10-3 et seq.
('71 Code, § 42.04) (Ord. 12-68, passed 5-27-68; Am. Ord. 1-1992, passed 2-24-
92)
§ 32.034 ADVISORY COUNCIL. 
   The Board of Parks and Recreation may create an advisory council and special
committees composed of citizens interested in the problem of parks and
recreation in accordance with Article IV of the 1965 Park and Recreation Law.
('71 Code, § 42.05) (Ord. 12-68, passed 5-27-68)
§ 32.035 ANNUAL BUDGET; FINANCES.
   The Board of Parks and Recreation shall prepare and submit an annual budget
in the same manner as other departments of the city government as prescribed by
the State Board of Accounts. The Board may accept gifts, donations and
subsidies for park and recreation purposes.
('71 Code, § 42.06) (Ord. 12-68, passed 5-27-68; Am. Ord. 1-1992, passed 2-24-
92)
§ 32.045 ESTABLISHMENT.
   For the purpose of providing for the operation, management and control of
the water works owned and operated by the city, there is established a Water
Department.
('71 Code, § 38.01)
§ 32.046 RESERVED.
§ 32.047 RESERVED.
§ 32.048 RESERVED.
§ 32.049 RESERVED.
§ 32.050 RESERVED. 
§ 32.051 RESERVED.
§ 32.052 POWERS.
   The Water Department shall have general supervision over the water works of
the city, the selection of a manager for the same, the fixing of the number and
compensation of all employees and their appointment; and shall have all the
power and authority that may be vested in it by the laws of the state.
('71 Code, § 38.08)
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
§ 32.065 ESTABLISHMENT; CLERK-TREASURER TO ADMINISTER.
   Under provisions of I.C. 36-4-10-1 et seq., a Department of Finance is
established in the city to be headed by the Clerk-Treasurer who shall be
elected as provided by state law.
('71 Code, § 33.01)
REDEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
§ 32.080 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Municipal Redevelopment Department shall be established to be known as the
Vincennes Redevelopment Department which shall be controlled by a five- member
board known as the Vincennes Redevelopment Commission and which shall be
organized and operated in conformity with I.C. 36-7-14, including any
amendments that may from time to time be added to that chapter.
('71 Code, Ch. 46, § 1) (Ord. 17-88, passed 5-23-83)
CITY PLAN COMMISSION 
§ 32.090 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is organized a City Plan Commission under the authority provided in
I.C. 36-7-4-200 et seq.
('71 Code, § 44.01)
§ 32.091 MEMBERSHIP; TERM.
   The membership shall be as provided by that statute as set forth in §
32.090 and the official members are hereby designated as three persons in the
city government who shall be appointed by Common Council, and four citizen
members, not more than two of whom shall be members of the same political
party, who shall be appointed by the Mayor. Each new appointment shall be for a
term of four years, in accordance with the provision of that statute as set
forth in §
32.090.
('71 Code, § 44.02)
COMMISSION ON ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY AND CONSERVATION
§ 32.115 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Vincennes, its corporate limits, and any areas within its
legal purview.
   COMMISSION. The City Environmental Quality and Conservation Commission, as
created in this subchapter.
   ENVIRONMENT. The sum total of the physical, chemical and biological factors
affecting the populace of the city and surrounding community.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, public or
private corporation, association, trust, estate or any agency, board,
department or bureau of the city or any other legal entity.
   POLLUTION. The presence in the environment of one or more contaminants, or
noise, in those quantities, characteristics or duration as is or tends to be
injurious to human health or welfare, or property, or would interfere with the
enjoyment of life or property.
('71 Code, § 45.07) (Ord. 26-1986, passed 8-11-86)
§ 32.116 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Commission on Environmental Quality and
Conservation, hereafter designated as the Commission.
('71 Code, § 45.01) (Ord. 26-1986, passed 8-11-86)
§ 32.117 PURPOSE.
   It is declared to be the public policy of the city and the purpose of this
subchapter to achieve and maintain those levels of environmental quality as
will protect human health and safety, and to the greatest degree practicable,
prevent injury to plant and animal life and property, foster the comfort and
conveniences of the people, promote the economic and social development of the
city and facilitate the enjoyment of the natural attractions of the city; also,
to provide a framework to promote an improved understanding between industry
and the community on environmental issues.
('71 Code, § 45.06) (Ord. 26-1986, passed 8-11-86)
§ 32.118 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Commission on Environmental Quality and Conservation shall consist of
seven residents of the city serving without compensation and including at least
four with expertise in one or more areas of physical sciences, biological
sciences, engineering, business, sanitation, public health, conservation and
recreation.
('71 Code, § 45.02) (Ord. 26-1986, passed 8-11-86)
§ 32.119 APPOINTMENT; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Commission on Environmental Quality and Conservation shall consist
of seven members appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the Common Council.
Each member shall be appointed for a three-year term.
('71 Code, § 45.08)
   (B)   If a member dies or leaves the Commission for any other reason, his
successor shall be appointed to serve for the unexpired term for which the
member had been appointed.
('71 Code, § 45.03)
(Ord. 26-1986, passed 8-11-86)
§ 32.120 QUALIFICATIONS.
   Preference for appointments shall be given to persons with expertise in one
or more areas of physical sciences, biological sciences, engineering, business,
sanitation, public health, conservation and recreation.
('71 Code, § 45.09) (Ord. 26-1986, passed 8-11-86)
§ 32.121 OFFICERS; APPOINTMENT.
   The Commission on Environmental Quality and Conservation shall select from
its membership at its February meeting a chairperson, vice-chairperson and
secretary.
('71 Code, § 45.04) (Ord. 26-1986, passed 8-11-86)
§ 32.122 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commission on Environmental Quality and Conservation shall
normally meet a minimum of once each month. Special meetings may be called by
the Chairperson of the Commission or the Mayor. The budgeted expenses for
carrying on the Commission's activities shall be paid out of funds appropriated
for those purposes by the Common Council.
   (B)   Except as specifically stated in this subchapter, the Commission may
determine its own procedures, including the formation of committees and the
designation of individuals and organizations within the Community to serve as
consultants.
('71 Code, § 45.05) (Ord. 26-1986, passed 8-11-86)
§ 32.123 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission on Environmental Quality and Conservation shall have the
following powers and duties:
   (A)   Adopt administrative rules and regulations for the conduct of its
business.
   (B)   Hold hearings relating to any aspect of or matter in the
administration of this subchapter and in cases of noncompliance request the
City Attorney to take legal action.
   (C)   Retain, employ, provide for and compensate, within appropriations
available thereof, those consultants, assistants and deputies, as may be
necessary in case of emergency or with the consent of the Mayor and Common
Council to carry out the provisions of this subchapter and prescribe the times
at which they shall be appointed, the duration of their appointments and their
powers and duties.
   (D)   Secure necessary scientific, technical, administrative and operational
services including laboratory facilities, by contract or otherwise with any
educational institution, experiment station or any board, department or other
agency of any subdivision or state or the federal government.
   (E)   Determine by means of field studies and sampling the degree of
pollution in the city and county.
   (F)   Encourage and conduct studies, investigations and research relating to
pollution and its causes, effects, prevention, abatement and control in the
city, and make recommendations to the appropriate public and private bodies
with respect thereto.
   (G)   Classify contaminant sources, which in the Commission's judgement may
cause or contribute to pollution.
   (H)   Prepare and develop a comprehensive plan or plans for the prevention,
abatement and control of pollution in the city.
   (I)   Encourage voluntary cooperation by persons and affected groups to
achieve the purposes of this subchapter.
   (J)   Collect and disseminate information and conduct educational and
training programs relating to pollution and environmental quality and
conservation.
   (K)   Advise, consult, contract and cooperate with other agencies of the
state and the city, other local governments, industries, other states,
interstate or interlocal agencies and the federal government, and with
interested persons or groups.
   (L)   Apply for, accept, receive and administer grants or other funds or
gifts from public or private agencies including the state and federal
governments for the purpose of carrying out any of the provisions or purposes
of this subchapter. The funds received by the Commission pursuant to this
division shall be deposited in accordance with the administrative regulations
of the Commission. The Commission is authorized to promulgate any rules and
regulations or enter into contracts as it may deem necessary for carrying out
the provisions of this division.
   (M)    Make appropriate inquiry into and give constructive consideration to
the operations and policies of all departments and governmental branches of the
city concerning their adherence to a commitment for environmental quality and
the conservation of natural resources.
   (N)   Prepare reports and recommendations to the Mayor, Board of Public
Works and Safety and the Common Council as needed.
   (O)   Promote improved education of citizens on the specific laws and
regulations on air, water and soil issues.
   (P)   Provide a resource of data to industry and business on current and
proposed environmental regulations.
   (Q)   Provide a nonthreatening advisory group that may aid industries with
known or suspected environmental problems, find solutions and support.
   (R)   Provide a positive atmosphere for new industry to show that the
community is educated on environmental issues and is willing to assist and not
condemn responsible businesses.
('71 Code, § 45.11) (Ord. 26-1986, passed 8-11-86)
UTILITIES SERVICE BOARD
§ 32.135 CREATION; TITLE; OBJECTIVES
     (A)   There is hereby created and established the Vincennes Utilities
Service Board. This Board shall be a policy making board as prescribed under
I.C. 8-1.5-3 et seq. It is the object of this legislation to provide for the
efficient operation of the city owned utilities.
   (B)   In accomplishing this objective, it is the intent of this Council that
the Utilities Service Board shall serve in an advisory capacity to presently
established Boards, Commissions, and City Officials concerning utility matters.
It is likewise the intent of this Council that the Utilities Service Board
insofar as is possible coordinate the utility operations with all governmental
activities of the city.
   (C)   The Utilities Service Board is charged with the responsibility of
maintaining communications with, but not limited to, the following specific
bodies: The Inspector's Office, the Engineering Office, the Vincennes Board of
Public Works and Safety and the City Attorney's Office.
   (D)   The Utilities Service Board shall report on all activities to the
Vincennes Common Council at least annually and at such other times as requested
by the Common Council.
(Ord. 27-94, passed 10-25-94)
§ 32.136 POWERS AND DUTIES  
   (A)   The Board shall have general policy making authority over the
utilities owned by the City of Vincennes, specifically the Water Department of
the City of Vincennes, the sewer collection system, the waste water treatment
facility, and the storm sewer utilities, but shall not interfere with the
detailed supervision of the superintendent, who is to be held responsible to
such Board for the business and technical operation of the utilities. The
Superintendent shall keep the Board, Mayor and Council informed of utilities
activities, and shall provide whatever information is requested and make
reports as required. The superintendent shall make an annual report concerning
the operating and fiscal condition of the utilities to the Vincennes Common
Council and shall submit a budget as prescribed under I.C. 8-1.5-3-4(a)(6).
   (B)   The Board shall select a superintendent who shall have executive
charge of the city owned utilities. The Board may enter into a contract of
employment with such superintendent upon terms it deems just and reasonable. In
the appointment of a Superintendent the Board shall make the selection on the
basis of fitness to manage, taking into account executive ability and knowledge
of the utility industry.
   (C)   The Board shall fix the compensation of all employees, including the
Superintendent. No persons other than utility employees shall be paid a salary
from utilities funds except as enacted in a Salary Ordinance.
   (D)   The Board shall adopt rules and regulations governing the appointment
of all employees, making proper classifications, such rules to determine the
eligibility of applicants. All rules regulating employment shall be consistent
with all existing citywide personnel policy, including equal employment and
affirmative action practices. The Superintendent shall have the right to
discharge employees at will, but shall be required to state the cause.
   (E)   The Utilities Service Board shall implement and enforce a policy for
the sewer and water utilities that sewer and water connections shall not be
made to any areas beyond the corporate limits of the City of Vincennes unless
and until the landowners execute and record a covenant running with the land to
be served not to oppose or remonstrate against any proposed annexation of the
real estate served by the City of Vincennes. Such covenant to bind the current
and future owners of the real estate to be served.
(Ord. 27-94, passed 10-25-94; Am. Ord. 34-97, passed 12-8-97)
§ 32.137 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT
     (A)   The Board shall be composed of five members, not more than 2/3 of
the members may be of the same political party. All members must be residents
of the area served by the Board and in addition must be a customer of the water
utilities and receive a monthly bill from the water utilities for water
utilities used at his or her personal residence, no more than two members may
be non-residents of the city.
   (B)   To assure professional and diligent oversight of the Utilities service
Board, qualifications for appointment shall consider:
      (1)   Indiana Utility Regulatory commission experience.
      (2)   Responsible financial experience.
      (3)   Involvement and experience in community affairs.
      (4)   Industrial and/or hospital and/or university experience.
   (C)   The Mayor shall appoint three members of the Board, and the Common
Council shall appoint two members. The Mayor shall initially appoint members as
follows: One for a term of one year; one for a term of two years; and one for a
term of three years. The Council shall initially appoint members as follows:
One for a term of two years; and one for a term of four years. If a vacancy or
vacancies should occur due to resignation or otherwise, the Mayor or Council,
as appropriate, shall appoint a substitute member to complete the term of the
vacant appointment. The initial terms shall expire on the first day of January
of the first, second, third, or fourth year, respectively, following their
appointment. Subsequent terms whether appointed by the mayor or council shall
be for a period of four years. The appointing authority of the vacancy shall
have the appointment for the replacement person. Appointees may serve no more
than two consecutive four year terms. Appointees may be reappointed after an
intervening term off of the Board.
(Ord. 27-94, passed 10-25-94; Am. Ord. 16-2006, passed 10-23-06)
§ 32.138 SALARY
    The members of the Board shall be paid a salary, to be budgeted from
utilities funds, of $2,000 per year. The members of the Board shall be
reimbursed for expenses properly incurred in connection with their duties
pursuant to this subchapter. This compensation shall be paid equally from each
utility fund.
(Ord. 27-94, passed 10-25-94)
§ 32.139 REMOVAL
     Members of the Board shall be subject to dismissal for cause after notice
and right to public hearing before the Mayor and the Common Council, the right
to public hearing to be exercised within 30 days after notice. Such dismissal
for cause shall be by the Mayor in the case of Mayoral appointments and by the
council in the case of Council appointments. Members shall also be subject to
dismissal for excessive absenteeism. Absenteeism shall be deemed excessive when
a Board member, without reasonable cause, is absent from three consecutive
regularly scheduled Board meetings.
(Ord. 27-94, passed 10-25-94)
§ 32.140 SELECTION OF CHAIRMAN  
   The members of said Board are authorized to select a chairman and any other
officers deemed necessary to properly carry out the functions of said Board.
Also, the members may adopt and prescribe rules to conduct their meetings and
business coming before them.
(Ord. 27-94, passed 10-25-94)
§ 32.141 POWER TO PERFORM DUTIES
     In respect to the operation and management of water and sewage systems the
Utilities Service Board shall have all the powers and perform all the duties
heretofore provided for by the Board of Public Works and Safety of said city,
all as provided for by I.C. 36-9-6 et seq.
(Ord. 27-94, passed 10-25-94)
§ 32.142 DISSOLUTION OF WATER DEPARTMENT BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The Vincennes Water Department Board of Trustees is dissolved upon the
happening of both of the following: 1. The effective date of this subchapter,
and 2. The appointment of the Utilities Service Board. The Vincennes Board of
Public Works and Safety shall discontinue responsibility for operation of the
sewer utility upon the happening of the same two events.
(Ord. 27-94, passed 10-25-94)
REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY BOARD
§ 32.150 CREATION.
   There is hereby created the Vincennes Redevelopment Authority, which shall
be entitled to exercise all rights, powers, privileges and immunities accorded
to such a body under I.C. 36-7-14.5, as amended (the “Act”).
(Ord. 1-98, passed 1-26-98)
§ 32.151 TERMS AND OATH OF BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created a board to manage the Vincennes Redevelopment
Authority (the “Board”). The three members of the Board shall be appointed by
the Mayor of the City of Vincennes, Indiana. Each member of the Board shall
serve a three year term. If a vacancy occurs on the Board, the Mayor shall fill
the vacancy by appointing a new member for the remainder of the vacated term.
   (B)   Each Board member, before beginning his or her duties, shall take and
subscribe an oath of office in the form prescribed by law, to be endorsed on
the certificate of his or her appointment, which shall be promptly filed with
the Clerk-Treasurer of the City of Vincennes, Indiana.
(Ord. 1-98, passed 1-26-98)
§ 32.152 QUALIFICATIONS.
   Such Board members shall have the qualifications prescribed by the laws of
the State of Indiana, as from time to time amended, and shall qualify as
therein provided; and shall exercise and enjoy the rights and powers and assume
the duties and obligations conferred and imposed by said Act; and no Board
member shall receive a salary; but such Board members are entitled to
reimbursement for expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their
duties.
(Ord. 1-98, passed 1-26-98)
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
§ 32.160 CREATION.
   There is now established in the City of Vincennes a Department of
Transportation.
(Ord. 3-98, passed 2-13-98)
PURCHASING AGENCY
§ 32.175 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety is established as the purchasing agency
for the city and is referred to herein as the "Purchasing Agency."
(Ord. 33-98, passed 7-27-98)
Cross-reference:
   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States, see §
35.03
§ 32.176 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Purchasing Agency shall have all the powers and duties authorized
under I.C. 5-22, as may be supplemented from time to time by ordinances adopted
by the Council and policies adopted by the Purchasing Agency.
   (B)   The Purchasing Agency shall act as the purchasing agency for every
agency, board, office, branch, bureau, commission, council, department or other
establishment of the city.
(Ord. 33-98, passed 7-27-98)
§ 32.177 DESIGNATION OF EMPLOYEES.
   The Purchasing Agency may designate in writing as any employee of the city
as a purchasing agent.
(Ord. 33-98, passed 7-27-98)
CHAPTER 33: POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
Section
Police Department
   
33.01   Establishment
   
33.02   Classification; order of authority
   
33.03   Salaries
   
33.04   Police Pension Fund
   
33.05   Police reserve officer
Fire Department
   
33.15   Establishment
   
33.16   Classification; order of authority
   
33.17   Salaries
   
33.18   Retirement; physical examinations
   
33.19   Firemen's Pension Fund
   
33.20   Powers of Fire Chief at scene of fire
Police Merit System
   
33.30   Purpose
   
33.31   Civil service commission; members; appointment; requisites; terms
   
33.32   Nomination of member of commission by membership of police department;
procedure
   
33.33   Members of commission; ineligibility of public employees; oath;
compensation
   
33.34   Member of commission; vacancies; removal; quorum
   
33.35   Commission; meetings; majority votes; officers; record of proceedings
   
33.36   Appointments, promotions, and demotions; performance ratings; rules and
regulations; review
   
33.37   Probationary period for promotions; rating report; review; appeal
   
33.38   Initial promotions to any rank; examination; time of service;
exceptions
   
33.39   Promotions; required rank; time of service; acting rank; rules and
regulations to be furnished to department members; rules and regulations hand
book; amendments to rules and regulations
   
33.40   Promotional schools; examinations; eligibility list
   
33.41   Instructors and instructional materials and equipment; other employees
   
33.42   Power of appointment and removal of department members; rank of chief
upon expiration of term
   
33.43   Appointment to department; qualifications; application for appointment
or reappointment; preliminary examination; rating of applicants; eligibility
list; appointments probationary; prerequisites for attainment of regular
employment
   
33.44   Solicitation for favored appointment or reinstatement; ineligibility;
Commissioner or member aiding any applicant
   
33.45   Dismissals, suspensions and punishments by commission
   
33.46   Policemen's school; course of instruction and training
   
33.47   Reprimands and suspensions by chief
   
33.48   Mandatory retirement age
   
33.49   Reduction of force in number; temporary leave of absence without pay;
reinstatement; return from disability leave
Police Reserves
   
33.55   Establishment
   
33.56   Appointment
   
33.57   Authority
Shared Police and Fire Benefits
   
33.65   Survivors benefits
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-8-2-2, a Police Department is established in
the city which shall be operated under the jurisdiction and supervision of the
Board of Public Works and Safety.
('71 Code, § 36.01) (Ord. 1201, passed 1-7-64)
§ 33.02 CLASSIFICATION; ORDER OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   There shall be the following ranks in the City Police Department in
progressive order of authority, as follows:
      (1)   Rookie officer.
      (2)   Second class officer.
      (3)   First class officer.
      (4)   Sergeant.
      (5)   Lieutenant.
      (6)   Captain.
      (7)   Assistant Chief.
      (8)   Chief.
   (B)   All patrol officers hereafter employed shall be of a rank of rookie
patrol officers during the first year of employment, and upon the first
anniversary of employment shall be automatically advanced to second class
police officer, and upon the second anniversary of employment shall be
automatically advanced to first class police officer.
('71 Code, § 36.02) (Ord. 2-1968, passed 2-26-68; Am. Ord. 41-1970, passed 10-
13-70; Am. Ord. 9-2022, passed 11-14-22)
§ 33.03 SALARIES.
   The salaries of the members of the Police Department shall be at the
discretion of the Common Council.
('71 Code, § 36.04)
§ 33.04 POLICE PENSION FUND.
   (A)   There is established a Police Pension Fund to be accumula ted and
administered according to the provisions of the laws of the state, as provided
by I.C. 36-8-6-1 et seq., and all acts amendatory thereof and supplemental
thereto.
   (B)   This Police Pension Fund shall be governed and managed by a Board of
Trustees, which is established, to be composed of nine members, whose
qualifications and terms of office shall be fixed as provided by statute; and
they are designated as the Mayor, the Clerk- Treasurer, the Chief of Police and
one retired member of the police department and five active members of the
police department with one member selected by the Board as Secretary of the
Pension Board.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees may adopt rules governing their administration
of the Police Pension Fund, but shall in all things conform to the statutes of
the state, concerning the Police Pension Fund.
('71 Code, § 36.03) (Am. Ord. 9-2022, passed 11-14-22)
§ 33.05 POLICE RESERVE OFFICER.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3-20, the City of Vincennes, Indiana,
establishes a police reserve officer contingent not to exceed ten officers with
the City's equipping of each officer and designated as the Vincennes Police
Special Reserve Force.
   (B)   The officers assigned to the Vincennes Police Special Reserve Force
shall be appointed by the Vincennes Police Civil Service Merit Commission.
   (C)   The Vincennes Police Civil Service Merit Commission is directed to
adopt rules for selection, appointment, discipline, promotion, demotion,
suspension and removal from the Vincennes Police Special Reserve Force.
   (D)   The Vincennes City Police Department is directed to adopt rules
limiting the authority of the Vincennes Police Special Reserve Force and
defining operations and training requirements.
(Ord. 21-98, passed 4-28-98)
FIRE DEPARTMENT 
§ 33.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Under provisions of I.C. 36-8-2-3, as amended, a Fire Department is
established in the city which shall be operated under the jurisdiction and
supervision of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
('71 Code, § 36.50)
§ 33.16 CLASSIFICATION; ORDER OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   There shall be the following rank in the City Fire Department in
progressive order of authority, as follows:
      (1)   Rookie firefighter.
      (2)   Second class firefighter.
      (3)   First class firefighter.
      (4)   Lieutenant.
      (5)   Captain.
      (6)   Chief of Fire Prevention Bureau.
      (7)   Assistant Chief.
      (8)   Chief.
   (B)   All firefighters hereafter employed shall be of the rank of rookie
during the first year of employment, and upon the first annual anniversary of
employment shall be automatically advanced to second class firefighter, and
upon the second annual anniversary shall be automatically advanced to first
class firefighter.
('71 Code, § 36.51) (Ord. 1-1968, passed 2-12-68; Am. Ord. 42-1970, passed 10-
13-70)
§ 33.17 SALARIES.
   The salaries of the members of the Fire Department shall be at the
discretion of the Common Council.
('71 Code, § 36.54)
§ 33.18 RETIREMENT; PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS.
   (A)   When a member of the Fire Department reaches his seventieth birthday,
he shall be retired from service in the Fire Department.
   (B)   A firefighter shall have a physical examination by the regularly
appointed medical doctor of the Fire Department Pension Board on or near his
sixty-fifth, sixty-sixth, sixty-seventh, sixty-eighth, sixty-ninth and
seventieth birthday, this physical examination to be paid by the Board of
Public Works and Safety.
   (C)   A firefighter found not to be physically qualified in that examination
provided for in division (B) hereof shall be immediately retired on a physical
disability pension.
('71 Code, § 36.53) (Ord. 1328, passed 8-16-66; Am. Ord. 7-2020, passed 7-27-
20)
§ 33.19 FIREMEN'S PENSION FUND.
   There is established a Firemen's Pension Fund and a Board of Trustees of the
Firemen's Pension Fund pursuant to I.C. 36-8-7-1 et seq.
('71 Code, § 36.52)
§ 33.20 POWERS OF FIRE CHIEF AT SCENE OF FIRE. 
   Any person present at any fire shall be subject to the orders of the Fire
Chief in extinguishing that fire, or in aiding to save property from
destruction or injury, and that person shall obey all orders given him by that
officer. No person shall willfully offer any hinderance to any officer or
firefighter, in the performance of his duties at or going to any fire. All
bystanders at any fire who are not employed or whose assistance is useless
shall remove to or remain at a distance from the fire as ordered by the Fire
Chief.
('71 Code, § 155.14)
Penalty, see § 10.99
POLICE MERIT SYSTEM
§ 33.30 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to retain some of the provisions of the
Indiana Code regarding Local Government Services as the same existed as of the
date of adoption of this subchapter, and as made applicable to the City of
Vincennes, Indiana, while making changes that are important to the City of
Vincennes, Indiana, and the meaning of all terms in this subchapter shall be
deemed to be the same as those contained in the provisions of the Indiana Code.
(Ord. 14-96, passed 5-13-96)
§ 33.31 CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION; MEMBERS; APPOINTMENT; REQUISITES; TERMS.
   The civil service commission for the police department, hereinafter referred
to as the commission shall consist of three members. The civilian members of
the commission shall serve for a term of three years and until their successors
shall have been appointed and qualified: provided, however, that in the first
instance, one of the civilian members of the commission shall be appointed for
a term of one year by the Mayor; one of such civilian member shall be appointed
for a term of two years by the common council; one of such civilian members
shall be appointed for a term of three years upon nomination by the active
membership of the police department and he shall be appointed by the Mayor of
the city after nominated. The members appointed by the Mayor and the common
council shall be resident voters of the city. The member nominated by the
active membership of the police department and appointed by the Mayor shall
reside in Knox County, Indiana. All shall be persons of good moral character
and shall be known and designated as the civilian members of the Commission. In
the event any official or body fails to name his or its appointment or nominee
within the time provided herein, such appointment or nomination to the
Commission shall be made by the Circuit Judge of the county involved. The
appointment by the common council shall be the person receiving the highest
number of votes of the councilmen present and voting at the meeting when the
appointment is made. The Mayor shall have no veto power over any appointments
to the Commission.
(Ord. 14-96, passed 5-13-96; Am. Ord. 1-2022, passed 3-28-22)
§ 33.32 NOMINATION OF MEMBER OF COMMISSION BY MEMBERSHIP OF POLICE DEPARTMENT;
PROCEDURE.
   The nomination to be made by the membership of the police department shall
be made at a meeting specifically called for that purpose by the Vincennes
Board of Public Works and Safety, hereinafter referred to in this section as
the Board. The Board shall give at least one week's notice of said meeting to
all active members of the police department in at least three prominent places
in the central police station. The notice shall designate the time, place and
purpose of the meeting. No one shall be entitled to be present at the meeting
and exercise the right to vote unless he is an active member of the police
department. Active members who are unable to attend any such meeting may vote
by written proxy: provided, that no active member present at the meeting shall
be entitled to hold and to vote the proxy of more than one absent member. An
active member of the police department shall be selected to act as chairman of
the meeting. Voting shall be by secret ballot; and the person receiving the
highest number of votes, including all proxy votes, shall be named as the
nominee of the police department.
(Ord. 14-96, passed 5-13-96)
§ 33.33 MEMBERS OF COMMISSION; INELIGIBILITY OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES; OATH;
COMPENSATION.
   A person shall be ineligible to serve as a civilian member of the commission
if he receives any remuneration for services from any City of Vincennes,
Indiana public fund, other that the per diem compensation as in this chapter
provided. Every civilian member appointed on such commission shall take and
subscribe to an oath that he will conscientiously and faithfully discharge the
duties of his office, which oath shall be filed with the commission. The
Civilian member of such commission shall receive a per diem compensation for
each day of actual service in the amount to be fixed by the City Council, but
not less than $600 per year.
(Ord. 14-96, passed 5-13-96)
§ 33.34 MEMBER OF COMMISSION; VACANCIES; REMOVAL; QUORUM.
   Civilian membership vacancies, for any cause, shall be filled by appointment
in the same manner as the original appointment of any member of the commission
which is now vacant. The Commission may remove any member of the commission at
any time for malfeasance, non-feasance, removal from such city, or inability to
serve, which removal shall be under the same rules of procedures as apply to
removal of members of the police department of this city. Two civilian members
of the commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. 14-96, passed 5-13-96)
§ 33.35 COMMISSION; MEETINGS; MAJORITY VOTES; OFFICERS; RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS.
   The commission shall establish rules for the government of the commission
and included in said rules shall be the time and place for the holding of
regular monthly meetings and such special meetings throughout the year as may
be deemed necessary for it to transact the business of the commission. A lawful
transaction of the business of the commission requires a majority vote of the
civilian members. Each year, and when filling a vacancy, the commission shall
select from its civilian members, a president, a vice-president, and a
secretary. The commission shall make and keep a permanent record of its
proceedings.
(Ord. 14-96, passed 5-13-96)
§ 33.36 APPOINTMENTS, PROMOTIONS, AND DEMOTIONS; PERFORMANCE RATINGS; RULES AND
REGULATIONS; REVIEW.
   Such commission shall be authorized and directed to prepare, adopt,
promulgate, supervise and enforce, rules and regulations as follows:
   (A)   To govern the selection, appointment, reappointment and reinstatement
of persons to be employed as members of the police department.
   (B)   To govern promotions and demotions of members of the police
department. Such rules and regulations shall provide that the following four
factors shall be the basic considerations of rating a member of the police
department for the purpose of promotion: the grade received by a member on a
written competitive examination; the past performance record of a member as a
member of the police department; the rights acquired by the length of service
or tenure on this city's police department, and the score received by a member
on an oral interview: Provided, that the grade received on the written
competitive examination shall be considered as 50% of the rating with a minimum
of 70% or within 20% of the highest score on the written test to get credit for
the written test; the past performance record shall be considered as 10% of the
rating; the oral interview score shall be considered as 20% of the rating;
seniority rights based on the number of years of service as a member of the
police department at the rate of 1% for each year of service up to and
including 20 years with a maximum of 20% of the rating. Provided, further, that
the name or means of identification of any member taking the competitive or
qualifying examination under the provisions of this chapter shall be withheld
and made unavailable to the person or persons who grade such examinations, and
all written competitive examinations shall be treated and filed as
confidential: provided, further, that said examination papers shall be made a
part of the permanent file of the individual officer taking the examination and
they shall be retained in the chief's office or police headquarters under the
supervision of the chief of police and the individual officer shall have access
to this file to examine same at any time. The chief of the police department or
the commission shall notify each member, in writing, of the grade which such
member received on the examination. Such rules and regulations shall further
provide that if any member is aggrieved with the grade received on the written
competitive examination, he shall have the right to appeal in writing to the
commission for a review of the grade within ten days after the notice of the
grade has been sent to him, and the commission, after reviewing the grade and
examination papers, shall have the authority to affirm the grade or to correct
the grade according to the findings of the review.
   (C)   To prescribe the manner of determining a rating for the past
performance: provided, that such rules and regulations shall contain a
provision requiring that performance rating shall be made at least every six
months for each member of the police department by at least one superior
officer, or as designated by the commission, which ratings shall be submitted
to the chief of the police department, approved by accepting or revising by the
Commission, and kept on file in his office or in police headquarters under his
supervision. The chief of the police department shall notify each member, in
writing, of the rating which such member received. Such rules and regulations
shall further provide that if any member is aggrieved with the performance
rating given him by his superior officer he shall have the right to appeal to
the commission for a review of the rating within ten days after the notice of
the rating has been sent to him; and the commission, after reviewing the
rating, shall have the authority to affirm the rating or to correct the same.
   (D)   To prescribe the manner of conduct of commission members.
(Ord. 14-96, passed 5-13-96; Am. Ord. 3-2001, passed 4-23-01)
§ 33.37 PROBATIONARY PERIOD FOR PROMOTIONS; RATING REPORT; REVIEW; APPEAL.
   All promotions and reinstatements provided for herein shall be probationary
for the first year. At the end of such year, the superior officers shall review
the performance of the probationary officer and recommend to the commission
whether the promotion shall be made permanent, whether the probationary period
should be extended for an additional period not to exceed six months, or
whether the promotion should be revoked. The commission shall review the report
and make its determination as to the disposition to be made. The probationary
officer may appear before the commission and be heard on any matter detrimental
to him in the superior officer's report. He shall have the right to be
represented by counsel. In the event the promotion is finally revoked the
officer shall not be returned to a rank lower than he held prior to the time of
probationary promotion. The commission shall prepare and publish appeal
procedures to be followed for appeals to the commission from the report of the
superior officer.
(Ord. 14-96, passed 5-13-96)
§ 33.38 INITIAL PROMOTIONS TO ANY RANK; EXAMINATION; TIME OF SERVICE;
EXCEPTIONS.
   Initially, upon the effective date of this Chapter, the promotion to any
rank except that of chief of police, shall be open to any member of the
department who has passed the competitive examination: provided, that any such
member shall have had two years of service in the department at the time of
promotion to the rank of sergeant; four years of service at the time of
promotion to lieutenant; six years service at the time of promotion to the rank
of captain and seven years of service at the time of promotion to the rank of
major.
(Ord. 14-96, passed 5-13-96)
§ 33.39 PROMOTIONS; REQUIRED RANK; TIME OF SERVICE; ACTING RANK; RULES AND
REGULATIONS TO BE FURNISHED TO DEPARTMENT MEMBERS; RULES AND REGULATIONS HAND
BOOK; AMENDMENTS TO RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Thereafter, all promotions to any rank shall be from the next
immediate lower rank and provided that the person to be promoted shall have
qualified in the time of service required by this chapter: provided, further,
that a patrolman, shall have been a member of the police department for a
period of not less than two years before he shall be eligible for the rank of
sergeant; that a sergeant shall have been a member of the police department for
a period of not less than four years before he shall be eligible for the rank
of lieutenant; that a lieutenant shall have been a member of the police
department for a period of not less than six years before he shall be eligible
for the rank of captain; and that a captain shall have been a member of the
police department for a period of not less than seven years before he shall be
eligible for the rank of major: provided, further, that no acting rank shall
exceed 90 day; except where an acting rank is created to fill a vacancy because
of temporary illness of an officer who holds permanent rank and has not been
placed on disability pay. In any event any acting rank shall be filled from the
reinstatement list and then from the existing eligibility list for such rank to
be filled. The commission shall adopt Rules and Regulations to govern filling
the ranks and rank roll backs and roll ups.
   (B)   The Chief shall provide to each member of the department, and the
commission, a rules and regulations hand book. The book shall contain: (a)
Rules and regulations prescribed by the Vincennes Police Civil Service Merit
Commission; (b) Rules and regulations prescribed by the Chief of Police; (c)
Standard operating field procedures as prescribed by the Chief; (d) All written
orders; (e) A table of contents, which is updated with each change, if needed.
Any amendments to these rules and regulations shall be made by the authority
which placed them in the rules and regulations hand book. The chief shall post
a dated copy in a conspicuous place in the police station and give each member
a copy, with a new table of contents, if needed. Amendments to the rules take
effect after their adoption.
(Ord. 14-96, passed 5-13-96)
§ 33.40 PROMOTIONAL SCHOOLS; EXAMINATIONS; ELIGIBILITY LIST.
   (A)   There shall be a promotional school as determined in scope and length
by the commission, conducted by the commission and written competitive
examinations given for the purpose of filling any existing vacancies in the
ranks that may occur from time to time. Any member of said police department
shall have the right to attend such promotional school: provided, however, that
only those members who are qualified in rank and length of service as provided
by this chapter shall be given a written final examination covering topics
taught in the school and others, and placed on the eligibility list by the
composite grade received.
   (B)   The eligibility list shall be maintained for a period of two years, at
which time there shall be another promotional school, for the purpose of
establishing a new eligibility list, conducted by the commission, and a
promotional school conducted by the commission every two years thereafter.
(Ord. 14-96, passed 5-13-96)
§ 33.41 INSTRUCTORS AND INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT; OTHER EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The commission may employ instructors who are not members of the
police department of such city and the commission is authorized to purchase
materials and equipment and allow other necessary expenditures for the purpose
of instructing and testing applicants and members of the police department.
   (B)   The commission may employee other employees from time to time for the
purpose of secretarial, legal, and other matters. The commission is authorized
to purchase other supplies needed to carry out its function as necessary.
(Ord. 14-96, passed 5-13-96)
§ 33.42 POWER OF APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF DEPARTMENT MEMBERS; RANK OF CHIEF
UPON EXPIRATION OF TERM.
   (A)   The commission shall have the sole power and authority to appoint or
remove any member of the police department, except the chief and assistant
chief of police. The mayor of the city shall have the sole power to appoint and
remove the chief and assistant chief of the police department.
   (B)   The Chief and assistant Chief must be a member of the Vincennes City
Police Department, must have a least seven years of continuous and immediate
service with the police department of the city of Vincennes, Indiana. The Chief
must have attained at least the permanent rank of Sergeant immediately before
the appointment.
   (C)   The removal of any member of the police department as chief or
assistant chief of said department shall be deemed as removal from rank only,
and not from the police department. Provided, further, that upon expiration of
the term of any chief or assistant chief of police, such person shall be
appointed by the commission to the rank in the police department which he held
at the time of his appointment as chief or assistant chief of the department,
provided, that in the event the chief or assistant chief of the department,
during his tenure of office has qualified in accordance with the promotional
procedure as prescribed by the commission in its rules and regulations for any
rank in the police department which is higher than the rank which he held at
the time of his appointment as chief or assistant chief of the department, he
shall, upon expiration of his term as chief or assistant chief, be appointed by
the commission to the rank for which he has qualified under the promotion
procedure.
(Ord. 14-96, passed 5-13-96)
§ 33.43 APPOINTMENT TO DEPARTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS; APPLICATION FOR APPOINTMENT
OR REAPPOINTMENT; PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION; RATING OF APPLICANTS; ELIGIBILITY
LIST; APPOINTMENTS PROBATIONARY; PREREQUISITES FOR ATTAINMENT OF REGULAR
EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   In order to be appointed to the department, an applicant must pass all
requirements as prescribed by the Commission.
   (B)   A person may not be appointed, re-appointed, or reinstated if he has a
felony conviction on his record. If the commission finds that the applicant
lacks the proper qualifications, it shall reject the applicant.
   (C)   The applicants shall then be rated on the selection criteria and
testing methods adopted by the commission. The commission shall adopt rules for
grading the applicants, including the establishment of a passing score. The
commission shall place the names of applicants with passing scores upon an
eligibility list by the order of their scores and shall certify the list to the
chief.
   (D)   Applicants remain on the list for two years from the date of
certification. At any time a person may reapply as an applicant.
   (E)   When a vacancy occurs in the department the commission may be
notified, in writing by the chief, of the vacancy. The commission shall upon
receiving written notice from the chief then make a conditional job offer to
the applicant having the highest score on the eligibility list to fill the
vacancy. The applicant appointed shall be enrolled as a member of the
department if he is still of good character and he has passed the required
physical examinations that may be required by a pension fund. Provided further,
that said applicant is required to file with the commission a certificate
certifying that the applicant is eligible for pension benefits. The commission
will be in compliance with all provisions of the American With Disabilities
Act.
      (1)   Provided further, that when said applicant has been appointed to
the police department, the said officer shall be within 20 days and remain a
bona fide resident of Knox County, Indiana.
      (2)   Provided further, that said officer shall have and maintain
adequate means of transportation into the city; and maintain in his residence
telephone service.
      (3)   Provided, however, he must still be of good character and pass all
requirements of the Commission.
   (F)   Every appointment to the police department shall be for a probationary
period of one calendar year of actual service. If at any time during the
probationary period the conduct or capacity of the probationer is found to be
unsatisfactory, which fact shall be determined by the commission without
hearing and without right of appeal, the probationer shall be notified in
writing by the commission, that he is being reprimanded, that he is being
suspended, or that he will not receive a permanent appointment, whereupon his
employment shall immediately cease; otherwise, his retention in the service
after the expiration of the probationary period shall be equivalent to and
shall constitute his final and permanent appointment.
   (G)   If another eligibility list is made while there are still names on the
existing eligibility list, the applicants may reapply, and the names of those
persons on the original list shall be added to the next list in the order of
all grades received. If an applicant on the original list does not re-apply his
name may remain on the new list, in order of all grades received, until his two
years has expired. At which time his name shall be removed from the list.
(Ord. 14-96, passed 5-13-96)
§ 33.44 SOLICITATION FOR FAVORED APPOINTMENT OR REINSTATEMENT; INELIGIBILITY;
COMMISSIONER OR MEMBER AIDING ANY APPLICANT.
   Any applicant who personally or through any other person solicits any member
of the commission to favor his appointment or reinstatement to such force,
shall be thereby rendered ineligible for all time to any such appointment to
the police department. A commissioner or officer who knowingly furnishes
information to an applicant for original appointment or to a member eligible
for promotion that gives that person an advantage over another person violates
this subchapter and state statute and may be punished accordingly.
(Ord. 14-96, passed 5-13-96)
§ 33.45 DISMISSALS, SUSPENSIONS AND PUNISHMENTS BY COMMISSION.
   (A)   The commission may take the following disciplinary actions against a
regular member of the department:
      (1)   Suspension with or without pay.
      (2)   Demotion of Rank and reduction of pay.
      (3)   Dismissal.
      (4)   Letter of reprimand.
   (B)   A member may be disciplined by the commission in accordance with the
Rules and Regulations of the Commission.
   (C)   If the chief, or the commission, or a commission member prefers
charges, in writing, against a member of the department for an alleged breach
of discipline a hearing shall be conducted. The hearing shall be held within 30
days. The commission may hold the hearing or designate a person or board to
conduct the hearing. The commission shall by its rules and regulations adopt
procedures for bringing charges against a member.
   (D)   Written notice of the hearing shall be served upon the accused member
in person or by a copy left at his last and usual place of residence. The
notice shall state:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The charges against the member;
      (3)   The specific conduct that comprises the charges;
      (4)   That the member is entitled to be represented by counsel or another
representative of his choice;
      (5)   That the member is entitled to call and cross-examine witnesses;
      (6)   The member is entitled to require the production of evidence; and
      (7)   That the member is entitled to have subpoenas issued, served, and
executed.
      (8)   If the accused member does not attend the hearing, it may be
conducted in his absence.
   (E)   The commission may:
      (1)   Compel the attendance of any witnesses by issuing orders to
members, and/or subpoenas;
      (2)   Examine witnesses under oath;
      (3)   Order the production of witnesses, tapes, books, papers, and any
and all other evidence by issuing subpoenas.
   (F)   If a witness refuses to appear at a hearing of the commission after
having received written notice requiring his attendance, or refuses to produce
evidence that the commission requests by written notice, the commission may
file an affidavit in the circuit court of the county setting forth the facts of
the refusal. Upon the filing of the affidavit, a summons shall be issued from
the circuit court and served by the sheriff of the county requiring the
appearance of the witness or the production of information or evidence to the
commission.
   (G)   Disobedience of a summons constitutes contempt of the circuit court
from which the summons has been issued. Expenses related to the filing of the
affidavit and the issuance and service of a summons shall be charged to witness
against whom the summons has been issued, unless the circuit court finds that
the action of the witness was taken in good faith and with reasonable cause. In
that case, and in any case in which an affidavit has been filed without the
issuance of a summons, the expenses shall be charged to the commission.
   (H)   A decision to discipline a member may be made only if the
preponderance of the evidence presented at the hearing indicates such a course
of action.
   (I)   A member who is aggrieved by the decision of a person, board designee,
or the commission may appeal to the commission within ten calendar days of the
decision. The commission shall on appeal review the record and either affirm,
modify, or reverse the decision on the basis of the record and such oral or
written testimony that the commission determines, including additional or newly
discovered evidence.
   (J)   The commission, or the designated person or board, shall keep a record
of the proceedings in cases of suspension, demotion, or dismissal. The
commission shall give a free copy of the transcript to the member upon request
if an appeal is filed.
   (K)   A member who aggrieved by a decision of the commission to suspend him
for a period greater than ten working days, demote him, or dismiss him may
appeal, to the circuit or superior court of the country in which the unit is
located.
      The appeal shall be made according to the Indiana rules of trial
procedure with the following exceptions:
      (1)   The verified appeal must be filed within 30 calendar days after the
date of the commission's decision.
      (2)   The unit shall be named as the sole defendant.
      (3)   The unit is assumed to have denied the allegations without filing a
responsive pleading.
      (4)   The plaintiff must file a bond at the time of filing the complaint
conditioned on the plaintiff prosecuting the appeal to a final determination
and paying the court cost incurred in the appeal.
(Ord. 14-96, passed 5-13-96)
§ 33.46 POLICEMEN'S SCHOOL; COURSE OF INSTRUCTION AND TRAINING.
   The Chief shall arrange for a school whenever in his discretion it is
necessary to hold a policemen's school for training officers or when it is
required by law. In such school the officers shall be given a course of
instruction and training adapted to fit them for service as policemen.
(Ord. 14-96, passed 5-13-96)
§ 33.47 REPRIMANDS AND SUSPENSIONS BY CHIEF.
   (A)   In addition to the disciplinary powers of the commission, the chief of
the department, may reprimand or suspend with or without pay a member,
including a police radio or signal alarm operator or fire alarm operator, for a
maximum of ten working days. For the purposes of this section, eight hours of
paid time constitutes one working day.
   (B)   If a chief reprimands a member in writing or suspends a member, he
shall, within 48 hours, notify the commission in writing of the action and the
reasons for the action. A member who is suspended for more than five working
days under this section may, within 48 hours after receiving notice from the
chief, request in writing, that the commission review the action. At the
decision, the commission may:
      (1)   Hold a hearing during the review.
      (2)   Refuse to review the suspension.
      (3)   Uphold, reverse, or modify the chief's decision.
      (4)   Review the suspension.
   (C)   If the decision is reversed, the individual who was suspended is
entitled to any wages withheld as a result of the suspension.
(Ord. 14-96, passed 5-13-96)
§ 33.48 MANDATORY RETIREMENT AGE.
   Upon arriving at the age of 70, it shall be mandatory for a member of the
police department, to retire from said department, providing, however, that any
member of the police department that is of the age of 70 or over at the time of
the taking effect of this chapter shall be permitted to serve to the end of the
calendar year.
(Ord. 14-96, passed 5-13-96; Am. Ord. 8-2020, passed 7-27-20)
§ 33.49 REDUCTION OF FORCE IN NUMBER; TEMPORARY LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY;
REINSTATEMENT; RETURN FROM DISABILITY LEAVE.
   (A)   If, after the taking effect of this chapter and for reasons of
economy, it shall be deemed necessary by the common council to reduce the
number of police officers of the police department, then such reduction shall
be made by granting temporary leave of absence without pay or financial
obligation to such city, to the last person or persons, including probationers,
that have been appointed to such department in numerical order, commencing with
the last person appointed and continuing in such order until the desired
reduction is effected. In the event that the department affected of such
department, who have been granted such leave of absence without pay, under the
terms of this section, shall be reinstated before any person on the eligibility
list is appointed to such department. Said reinstatements shall commence with
the last person granted a leave without pay: provided, however, that such
former member, who shall have been granted a leave of absence as in this
section provided, shall be reinstated upon passing all of the requirements of
the Commission for a new applicant and a physical examination, satisfactory to
the trustees of the pension fund of the department.
   (B)   A member returning to active duty from disability shall receive the
rank, and the pay for the permanent rank that he had earned at the time of
disability. If no positions are available, his name shall be placed on a
reinstatement list. The commission shall adopt rules and regulations to return
a member to his earned rank as soon as possible. The member returning must pass
all requirements of the commission for new applicants except, the age
requirement may be waived.
   (C)   The Chief shall have the authority to formulate, adopt, and put into
effect such written orders for the government of the Department as from time to
time as he sees fit.
   (D)   No order shall conflict with an order emanating from a higher
authority within the department, and no order of the department shall conflict
with Vincennes Police Civil Service Merit Commission Rules and Regulations, or
statutes.
(Ord. 14-96, passed 5-13-96)
POLICE RESERVES
§ 33.55 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3-20, the City of Vincennes, Indiana, establishes a
police reserve officer contingent not to exceed ten officers with the City's
equipping of each officer not to exceed $300 per officer.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 2-13-98)
§ 33.56 APPOINTMENT.
   The police reserve officers shall be appointed by the Vincennes Civil
Service Merit Commission.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 2-13-98)
§ 33.57 AUTHORITY.
   The Vincennes Civil Service Merit Commission is directed to adopt rules
limiting the authority of the police reserve officers.
(Ord. 2-98, passed 2-13-98)
SHARED POLICE AND FIRE BENEFITS
§ 33.65 SURVIVORS BENEFITS.
   (A)   Commencing with the year 1996, a surviving spouse of a deceased member
of the Vincennes Police or Fire Departments shall be paid an amount equal to
40% of the monthly pay of a first class patrolman or a first class fireman on a
monthly basis.
   (B)   Commencing with the year 1996, a surviving child of a deceased member
of the Vincennes Police or Fire Department shall be paid an amount equal to 20%
of the monthly pay of a first class patrolman or a first class fireman on a
monthly basis as follows:
      (1)   Until the child reaches 18 years of age;
      (2)   Until the child reaches 23 years of age if the child is enrolled in
and regularly attending a secondary school or is a full time student at an
accredited college or university; or
      (3)   During the entire period of a child's physical or mental
disability;
      Whichever period is longer.
(Ord. 22-96, passed 8-12-96)
CHAPTER 34: BI-STATE AIRPORT AUTHORITY
Section
   
34.01   Short title
   
34.02   Application to state law
   
34.03   Definitions
   
34.04   Name of airport
   
34.05   Creation of Bi-State Authority
   
34.06   Purpose
   
34.07   Membership; terms
   
34.08   Qualifications of members
   
34.09   Organization
   
34.10   Powers
   
34.11   Duties and limitations
   
34.12   Repeal of prior ordinances
§ 34.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be known and cited in each of the cities as the Bi-State
Airport regulations.
('71 Code, § 43.12) (Ord. 1214, passed 4-9-64)
§ 34.02 APPLICATION TO STATE LAW.
   Unless the constitution and laws of the United States of America or any
state having jurisdiction shall require otherwise, state law shall apply to all
acts performed or actions taken by the Bi-State Authority, its agents and
employees under the provisions of this chapter.
('71 Code, § 43.11) (Ord. 1214, passed 4-9-64)
§ 34.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTS. Both the Illinois Act and Indiana Act as defined in this section.
   AIRPORT. The Lawrenceville-Vincennes Municipal Airport and shall include the
land in Sections 22, 23, 24, 25, 26 and 27 in Township 4 North, Range 11 west
of the second principal meridian in Lawrence County, Illinois, conveyed by
quitclaim deed dated November 10, 1948, recorded in deed record 97 at pages 345
to 351 in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of Lawrence County, Illinois, by
the United States of America, acting by and through the War Assets
Administrator, as grantor to the City of Lawrenceville, Illinois, as grantee,
formerly known as George Field and as Lawrenceville Municipal Airfield,
including the runways, taxiways, apron and ramp area, hangars, buildings and
other structures, roads, streets, farm land and growing crops thereon, water,
sewerage, electrical and heating systems and all other fixtures and
improvements now on that land belonging to the City of Lawrenceville, sand,
gravel and minerals, in, on and under that land, and all other rights,
appurtenances and hereditaments in, to and in connection with that land,
subject, however, to all of the reservations, restrictions and exceptions, not
heretofore released, as contained in the quitclaim deed from the United States
of America to the City of Lawrenceville; and further including all personal
property of the City of Lawrenceville used, operated and maintained upon the
airport premises in connection with the use, maintenance and operation of that
airport. The term AIRPORT shall also include all the air rights and easements
contained in that quitclaim deed. Where the term is applied to future actions
or performances of the powers and duties herein defined, AIRPORT shall include
any annexations or additions to the property and rights above described and any
other property and rights hereafter acquired by the Bi-State Authority by
lease, purchase or gift for the use upon or in connection with the premises
above described in the exercise of its powers and duties, as that annexed or
additional property or rights exist at the applicable time, and shall not
include any property or rights then detached, released or disposed of under the
provisions hereof.
   BI-STATE AUTHORITY. The Bi-State Authority, Lawrenceville-Vincennes
Municipal Airport hereinafter created by this chapter, which shall be an
airport authority as authorized under the acts defined in this section.
   CITIES. The cities of Lawrenceville, Illinois and Vincennes, Indiana, and
are the “governmental units” as defined in the Acts as implemented by this
chapter. When used in this chapter, “Lawrenceville” shall mean Lawrenceville,
Illinois and “Vincennes” shall mean Vincennes, Indiana.
   ILLINOIS ACT. The House Bill 1258 of the 73rd General Assembly of the State
of Illinois, approved July 29, 1963, entitled “An act concerning the
acquisition, maintenance, financing and operation of air terminals by
governmental units located in more than one state; and the creation of airport
authorities,” (Ill. Rev. Stats. Chapter 15½, §§ 251 to 257) as the same may
from time to time be amended.
   INDIANA ACT. The Senate Bill 444 of the 93rd General Assembly of the State
of Indiana, approved March 16, 1963, entitled “An act concerning the
acquisition, maintenance, financing and operation of air terminals by
governmental units located in more than one state; and the creation of airport
authorities,” (IC Ch. 288, §§ 14-805 through 14-810) as the same may from time
to time be amended.
   PARTY STATES. The States of Illinois and Indiana, and are the PARTY STATES
as defined in the Acts as implemented by this chapter.
('71 Code, § 43.01) (Ord. 1214, passed 4-9-64)
§ 34.04 NAME OF AIRPORT.
   The name of the airport as defined in this chapter, formerly known as George
Field and as Lawrenceville Municipal Airfield, shall be Lawrenceville-Vincennes
Municipal Airport.
('71 Code, § 43.03) (Ord. 1214, passed 4-9-64)
§ 34.05 CREATION OF BI-STATE AUTHORITY.
   The Cities of Lawrenceville and Vincennes, being governmental units of the
party states, do hereby combine and join with each other for the purposes set
forth in the Acts of the respective party states, and they do hereby create an
airport authority, as authorized under the Illinois Act and the Indiana Act,
respectively, this airport authority to be known as the Bi-State Authority,
Lawrenceville-Vincennes Municipal Airport.
('71 Code, § 43.02) (Ord. 1214, passed 4-9-64)
§ 34.06 PURPOSE.
   The Bi-State Authority is hereby created for the purpose of operating,
maintaining and improving when needed, Lawrenceville-Vincennes Municipal
Airport, and shall be the governing body of the airport.
('71 Code, § 43.04) (Ord. 1214, passed 4-9-64)
§ 34.07 MEMBERSHIP; TERMS. 
   The Bi-State Authority hereby created shall consist of eight members, three
members to be appointed by the Mayor of the City of Lawrenceville, three
members to be appointed by the Mayor of the City of Vincennes, one member to be
appointed by the Governor of Illinois and one member to be appointed by the
Governor of Indiana. The length of tenure of office of those members appointed
by the Governors shall be at the pleasure of the respective Governors. The
terms of office of those members appointed by the respective Mayors shall be
for six years each. The terms of all members shall be continued until their
respective successors have been duly appointed and qualified.
('71 Code, § 43.05) (Ord. 1214, passed 4-9-64)
§ 34.08 QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The members appointed by the respective Mayors shall have the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each member shall be of the age of 21 years or upwards, and shall
be of good character.
      (2)   Each member shall be a resident voter of the city whose Mayor
appoints him.
   (B)   No more than two members from each city shall be of the same political
party.
   (C)   Not more than one appointee of the Mayor shall at any time be a member
of the Common Council of the city, and one member only, appointed by the Mayor
of Lawrenceville, shall at any time he a member of the City Council of
Lawrenceville. No other members appointed by either of the Mayors shall hold
any other elective office in their respective cities during their terms of
office.
('71 Code, § 43.06) (Ord. 1214, passed 4-9-64)
§ 34.09 ORGANIZATION.
   The Bi-State Authority hereby created shall organize by electing a
Chairperson, Secretary, Treasurer and any other officers as it sees fit, these
officers to serve for one year terms, and shall adopt reasonable rules and
bylaws for the government and control of the Bi-State Authority. The Treasurer
of the Bi-State Authority shall be required to give bond in the amount of
$50,000, the premium of which shall be paid from the funds of the Bi-State
Authority. A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members of the Bi-State
Authority.
('71 Code, § 43.07) (Ord. 1214, passed 4-9-64)
§ 34.10 POWERS.
   The powers of the Bi-State Authority shall be as follows:
   (A)   Govern, control, operate, manage, maintain and improve Lawrenceville-
Vincennes Municipal Airport and any other facilities, improvements and property
as it shall obtain in connection therewith.
   (B)   Enter into an agreement with the City of Lawrenceville, Illinois, with
the concurrence of the Federal Aviation Agency, leasing from the city the
airport for a period and upon those terms and conditions as the Bi-State
Authority and that city may agree.
   (C)   Receive from the City of Lawrenceville, take control of and manage all
funds of the City of Lawrenceville belonging to the airport or appropriated or
earmarked for or committed to the purposes of the airport, subject however, to
all valid contracts, agreements, commitments and obligations of the City of
Lawrenceville with respect to the airport and the use of its funds. The custody
and accountability for the funds are hereby authorized and directed to be set
over to the Bi-State Authority and the Bi-State Authority is hereby established
as succeeding to the position heretofore held by that city with respect to all
contracts, agreements, commitments and obligations except, however, those as
between the United States of America and the city under the terms and
provisions of the quitclaim deed identified in § 34.01.
   (D)   Assume, perform and carry out all valid and existing contracts of the
City of Lawrenceville with respect to the airport and to receive on behalf of
the airport all moneys, funds, rents, royalties and profits due the City of
Lawrenceville or the airport under any contracts, agreements, leases or other
arrangements with respect to the airport, and to sue for and collect any sums
lawfully due and to require specific performance of any such contracts. To
enter into contracts for the operation, maintenance, repairs and improvement of
the airport and any of its facilities.
   (E)   Appropriate and expend those funds of the airport as the Bi-State
Authority shall deem necessary or advisable for the proper maintenance, care,
operation, control and improvement of the airport and its facilities.
   (F)   Lease portions of the airport premises and facilities on those terms
and conditions as the Bi-State Authority shall deem proper, and to sell,
encumber or dispose of any personal property, fixtures and improvements as
shall be in the best interests of the airport; provided, that all valid and
subsisting leases and contracts of the City of Lawrenceville shall be kept by
the Bi-State Authority and that no lease, sale or other disposition of any of
the airport property or facilities shall be made in conflict with any other
valid and subsisting contracts or in conflict with any of the restrictions,
exceptions or reservations contained in the quitclaim deed from the United
States of America to the City of Lawrenceville or contrary to the regulations
and policies of the Federal Aviation Agency.
   (G)   Borrow money for the purpose of improvement of the airport or its
facilities and to issue revenue bonds for those purposes. To lease the farm
land on the airport or any portions thereof under farm rental agreements,
subject however to the terms of the current farm management contract of the
City of Lawrenceville, and to lease the lands and portions thereof for
exploration and development of the mineral resources and such other purposes,
also subject to any existing leases, and to receive on behalf of the airport
all farm rentals, royalties, profits and other considerations therefor, and to
pay out all reasonable and necessary expenses in connection with any such
agreements and operations.
('71 Code, § 43.08) (Ord. 1214, passed 4-9-64)
§ 34.11 DUTIES AND LIMITATIONS.
   The Bi-State Authority shall be subject to the following duties and
limitations:
   (A)   The primary purpose of the creation of the Bi-State Authority is
hereby declared to be to develop, operate and maintain the facilities of the
airport for the aeronautical uses and purposes of the people of the cities and
surrounding areas, and to provide on the airport, insofar as not inconsistent
with or detrimental to the development, operation and maintenance of the
aeronautical use facilities, for the industrial growth of the cities and the
surrounding communities and area. No funds of the airport shall be
appropriated, used or expended for any purpose inconsistent therewith.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any of the powers granted to the Bi-State Authority
herein to the contrary, no action shall be taken nor powers exercised by the
Bi-State Authority contrary to or in conflict with the laws of the party
states, where applicable, or the regulations and policies of the Federal
Aviation Agency or any of the restrictions, reservations or exceptions
contained in the aforementioned quitclaim deed, unless the same have been
validly released, or any binding contracts of the City of Lawrenceville made in
connection with the airport and its use.
   (C)   Each year on or before July 1, the Bi-State Authority shall prepare a
budget of its estimated expenditures for the fiscal year beginning on January 1
of the succeeding year and shall on or before July 1 submit a copy of that
report to each of the cities.
   (D)   The Bi-State Authority shall have no power to impose taxes upon the
citizens of the cities except by and through each of the cities and only upon
referendum vote approved by a majority of the persons voting in each of the two
cities, and no taxes shall be imposed nor shall the cities be required to
furnish funds for the operation or improvement of the airport unless it shall
appear that the total income of the airport is insufficient to meet the needs
for the operation or improvement. Any such funds appropriated by or furnished
by the cities to the Bi-State Authority shall be used exclusively for the
development and maintenance of the airport facility.
   (E)   The Bi-State Authority shall keep accurate records of all accounts of
receipts and disbursements, which shall be subject to an annual audit and
accounting procedures established under its bylaws. All receipts and
disbursements of funds handled by the Bi- State Authority shall be audited by a
certified public accountant, and the Bi-State Authority shall make an annual
report to each of the cities incorporating therein the report of that audit.
   (F)   Any member may be removed from office by the officer appointing him,
or the successor to that office, for any willful and substantial violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter or the acts creating the Bi-State
Authority, for misappropriation of funds of the airport or for conviction of
any felony.
('71 Code, § 43.09) (Ord. 1214, passed 4-9-64)
§ 34.12 REPEAL OF PRIOR ORDINANCES.
   The repeal of prior ordinances shall in no way invalidate the appointment
thereunder of members of the Board of Control and Board of Aviation Control as
defined in those prior ordinances, which members are hereby designated as the
initial appointees to the Bi-State Authority as provided herein, nor shall the
repeal of those prior ordinances in any way invalidate any action taken by
those members acting as an airport authority, and all other acts and doings of
the members acting as an airport authority are hereby ratified as the acts of
the Bi-State Authority.
('71 Code, § 43.10) (Ord. 1214, passed 4-9-64)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Payment of fees to Clerk-Treasurer
   
35.02   Claims against city for work done or property furnished to city
   
35.03   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States
   
35.04   Charges for Police Department reports
   
35.05   Investment Policy
   
35.06   Internal Control Standards
   
35.07   Materiality Threshold Policy
Appropriations and Expenditures
   
35.15   Monthly record required by each department
   
35.16   Purchase order required for expenditures in excess of $100
   
35.17   Presentation of expenditures
   
35.18   Rejection of claims
Funds
   
35.30   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
   
35.31   Special non-reverting funds
   
35.31.1   Hazardous materials emergency action reimbursement
   
35.32   Promotion of city
   
35.33   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
35.34   Economic Development Income Tax Fund
   
35.35   Police Department Drug Enforcement Fund
   
35.36   DARE Fund Account
   
35.37   Hazardous Waste Fund
   
35.38   Police Department Drug Investigation Fund
   
35.39   Police Department Block Grant Fund
   
35.40   Parks and Recreation Department, Indiana Boats and Water Grant
   
35.41   Parks and Recreation Department Grant Fund
   
35.42   Police Department Traffic Safety Equipment Fund
   
35.43   Police Department Training Center Fund
   
35.44   Fire Department SEMA Haz-Mat Grant Fund
   
35.45   Fire Department Arson/Inspection Training Fund
   
35.46   Fire Department Health and Safety Equipment Fund
   
35.47   Fire Department Tobacco Cessation Fund
   
35.48   Riverboat Wagering Tax Revenue Sharing Cities and Towns Fund
   
35.49   Rainy Day Fund
   
35.50   City Council Donation Fund
   
35.51   Stormwater Drainage Planning Grant Fund
   
35.52   Recycling Center Fund
   
35.53   Haz-Mat Reimbursement Fund
   
35.54   Rural Development Grant Fund
   
35.55   Major Moves Fund
   
35.56   Heritage Trail Fund
   
35.57   Second Street Resurfacing Fund
   
35.58   Police Department Permanent Child Seat Safety Inspection Station Fund
   
35.59   Riverfront Pavilion Fund
   
35.60   Police Department Shared Grant Fund
   
35.61   Reserved
   
35.62   Police Department Operation Pullover Equipment Fund
   
35.63   Master Planning Grant Fund
   
35.64   Home Improvements Grant Fund
   
35.65   Parks and Recreation Department Pool Restroom Renovation Grant Fund
   
35.66   Local Options Income Tax Fund
   
35.67   IHSFG CPR Grant Fund
   
35.68   CARES Provider Relief Fund
   
35.69   Police Station Restoration Grant Fund
   
35.70   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
   
35.71   COSSAP Lead Stipend Fund
   
35.72   State Administered SCDBG Program Fund
Cross-reference:
   Stormwater fund, see §
53.108
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 PAYMENT OF FEES TO CLERK-TREASURER.
   All fees collected by the City Inspector under the authority of any of the
provisions of the municipal code shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer on the
first of each month, and shall become a part of the General Fund.
('71 Code, § 37.02)
§ 35.02 CLAIMS AGAINST CITY FOR WORK DONE OR PROPERTY FURNISHED TO CITY. 
   (A)   Claim verification. All claims against the city for work done or
property furnished to the city shall be presented in writing, verified by the
affidavit of the claimant or his duly authorized agent. Where no special
contract has been entered into at the time of rendering the services or
furnishing the property, the affidavit shall show that the price charged is
just and reasonable and no more than the usual and customary price. Where the
work is done or property furnished under contract, the affidavit shall state
that the contract as to price, quality and kind has been fully complied with.
All claims shall be fully and accurately itemized and shall show the items and
prices thereof in detail.
('71 Code, § 33.02)
   (B)   Claim certification. All claims, after verification as provided in
division (A) of this section, shall be presented to the Common Council and
shall be certified as correct by the Clerk-Treasurer or the head of the
department for whose order the work was done or supplies furnished, except that
payrolls need be certified only by the department head or secretary.
('71 Code, § 33.03)
(Ord. 8-84, passed 3-27-84)
§ 35.03 PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES.
   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all city
purchases and shall be purchased unless the city determines that:
   (A)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in reasonably
available quantities;
   (B)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds
by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
   (C)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
   (D)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not in
the public interest.
(Ord. 34-99, passed 7-27-98)
Cross-reference:
   Purchasing Agency, see §§ 32.175 through 32.177
§ 35.04 CHARGES FOR POLICE DEPARTMENT REPORTS
   (A)   Under Indiana statute all funds received from the public that are to
be maintained in the Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund and are not set
by state law must be approved in the form of a local ordinance.
   (B)   The list of reports, checks and inspection and the costs are as
follows:
      (1)   Indiana accident reports: $15.
      (2)   Vincennes Housing Authority (VHA) check: $3.
      (3)   Background check (housing/employment): $5.
      (4)   Vehicle identification (VIN) check: $5.
      (5)   Radio transmission recording: $100.
      (6)   Telephone recording: $100.
      (7)   Body worn/in-car camera recorder: $150.
      (8)   Copies of police reports will be set at $.10 per side of paper,
only to be charged for 10 or more sides of paper used.
   (C)   As the purpose of the Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund,
expenditures from the fund shall be to support the annual budget of the Police
Department.
(Ord. 9-2000, passed 5-22-00; Am. Ord. 9-2023, passed 5-8-23)
§ 35.05 INVESTMENT POLICY.
   The Statement of Investment Policy, Objectives and Guidelines, attached as
Exhibit A to Ordinance 20-2016, is hereby approved.
(Ord. 20-2016, passed 4-26-16)
§ 35.06 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   The Internal Control Standards as established by I.C. 5-11-1- 27(e) are
hereby adopted and shall be in full force and effect and shall supersede and
repeal existing oral or written personnel policies and procedures.
(Ord. 26-2016, passed 5-23-16)
§ 35.07 MATERIALITY THRESHOLD POLICY.
   (A)   It will be the policy of the City Clerk-Treasurer to report to the
State Board of Accounts any erroneous or irregular variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts of cash in excess of $500. In. addition, all erroneous or
irregular variances, losses, shortages, or thefts of cash which occur more than
one time in a month and which the aggregate total is $500 or more shall be
reported immediately to the State Board of Accounts. Exceptions shall be made
for inadvertent clerical errors that are identified timely and promptly
corrected with no loss to the City of Vincennes.
   (B)   It will be the policy of the City Clerk-Treasurer to report promptly
to the State Board of Accounts any erroneous or irregular variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts of non-cash items in excess of $5,000, estimated market
value, except for those resulting from inadvertent clerical errors or
misplacements that are identified timely and promptly corrected with no loss to
the City of Vincennes, and except for losses from genuine accidents.
   (C)   All erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages, or thefts
shall be reported immediately to the City Clerk-Treasurer. The City Clerk-
Treasurer shall maintain records and documentation concerning erroneous or
irregular variances, losses, shortages, or thefts in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles and the internal control standards provided by
the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
   (D)   The City of Vincennes shall investigate all erroneous or irregular
variances, losses, shortages or thefts, regardless of whether they meet the
materiality threshold established by this section. Upon conclusion of each such
investigation, the city shall:
      (1)   Implement procedures designed to prevent the recurrence of such
incidents; and
      (2)   Take appropriate disciplinary action against the employee
responsible for the incident.
   (E)   All city elected officials and all city employees and agents are
directed to comply with this materiality policy.
(Ord. 58-2016, passed 12-12-16)
APPROPRIATIONS AND EXPENDITURES
§ 35.15 MONTHLY RECORD REQUIRED BY EACH DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The superintendents, heads, directors or chiefs of all departments and
boards of the city shall make an itemized record of the annual appropriations
made for their respective departments or boards, and shall keep an accurate,
up-to-date record of all expenditures made therefrom.
   (B)   A copy of this record shall be furnished to the Chairperson of the
Budget Committee of the Common Council and to the Mayor on or before the tenth
day of each month.
('71 Code, § 33.04) (Ord. 1295, passed 1-1-66)
§ 35.16 PURCHASE ORDER REQUIRED FOR EXPENDITURES IN EXCESS OF $100.
   No one expenditure in excess of $100 for machinery, materials, equipment or
supplies shall be made or authorized by the superintendents, heads, directors
or chiefs of any department or board unless or until the same shall be first
presented to the Clerk-Treasurer on a “purchase order form” prescribed by the
State Board of Accounts and the same approved by the Clerk-Treasurer.
('71 Code, § 33.05) (Ord. 4-85, passed 1-28-85)
§ 35.17 PRESENTATION OF EXPENDITURES.
   All expenditures shall be presented to the Clerk-Treasurer for payment
within the same month that the same is made.
('71 Code, § 33.07) (Ord. 1295, passed 1-1-66)
§ 35.18 REJECTION OF CLAIMS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall refuse to honor any claim for machinery,
materials, equipment or supplies procured without compliance to the provisions
of this subchapter.
('71 Code, § 33.06) (Ord. 1295, passed 1-1-66)
FUNDS
§ 35.30 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS shall
mean the construction or improvement of any property owned by the city
including, but not limited to, streets, thoroughfares and sewers and the
retirement of general obligation bonds of the city issued, and the proceeds
used for the purpose of constructing capital improvements. The term CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENTS shall not include salaries of any public officials or employees
except those which are directly chargeable to a capital improvement.
   (B)   In accordance with the requirements of § 8 of Chapter 225, Acts of
1965 of the General Assembly, there is hereby created a special fund to be
known as the Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund, into which the cigarette
taxes allotted to the city, by reason of subsection C(1)(C) of § 27C and 27D of
the Indiana Cigarette Tax law being Chapter 222 of the Acts of 1947 as amended,
shall be deposited. This Fund shall be a cumulative fund and all of the moneys
deposited into the Fund shall be appropriated and used solely for capital
improvements as defined above and none of those moneys shall revert to the
General Fund to be used for any purposes other than capital improvements.
('71 Code, § 33.08) (Ord. 1275, passed 7-27-65)
§ 35.31 SPECIAL NON-REVERTING FUNDS.
   There is now established three special non-reverting funds in the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer for the purpose of receiving donations, grants and other
funds from which expenditures pursuant to statute may be expended for the
furtherance of the three projects for which the three funds are established.
The three projects are identified as follows: Kimmell Park land acquisition of
Cooper Woods; restoration of Kimmell Park; and construction of walking track in
Gregg Park.
(Ord. 14-97, passed 6-23-97)
§ 35.31.1 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY ACTION REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Definitions.
      FACILITY. The same meaning herein as set forth in I.C. 36-8-12.2 and as
it may be amended from time to time.
      FIRE DEPARTMENT. The Vincennes Fire Department.
      HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY. The same meaning herein as set forth in
I.C. 36-8-12.2 and as it may be amended from time to time.
      RESPONSIBLE PARTY. The same meaning herein as set forth in I.C. 36-8-12.2
and as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Authority. This section is adopted under authority of and shall be
construed consistent with I.C. 36-8-12.2.
   (C)   Imposition of service charge. There is hereby imposed a charge on a
person or entity that is a responsible party with respect to a hazardous
materials emergency that:
      (1)   The Fire Department responded to;
      (2)   Members of the Fire Department assisted in containing, controlling,
or cleaning up;
      (3)   With respect to the release or imminent release of hazardous
materials at a facility, involves a quantity of hazardous materials that
exceeds the spill quantities of hazardous materials that must be reported under
327 IAC 2-6.1-5; and
      (4)   With respect to the release or imminent release of hazardous
materials from a mode of transportation, involves a quantity of hazardous
materials that exceeds the spill quantities of hazardous materials that must be
reported under 327 IAC 2-6.1-6.
   (D)   Service charge billed to responsible party.
      (1)   The Fire Department may bill the responsible party or entity for
the total value of the assistance provided, as determined from the State Fire
Marshal's schedule of service charges issued under I.C. 36-8-12-16(e). The most
current schedule of charges. as provided by the State Fire Marshal and as it
may be amended from time to time, is hereby adopted.
      (2)   The Fire Department may not bill for services provided that
duplicate services provided by another governmental entity.
      (3)   The responsible party billed for services under this section may
elect to reimburse the Fire Department by providing replacement materials that
are of equal or greater value than those expended by the Fire Department in
responding to the emergency.
      (4)   In an action for reimbursement of costs, the Fire Department may
recover all costs of the action and attorney's fees (see I.C. 36-8-12.2-10).
      (5)   A responsible party is subject to a penalty for failure to pay the
full amount of a charge made under this section within 60 days after the
issuance of the bill for payment by the Fire Department. The amount of the
penalty is 10% of the amount of the charge that remains unpaid on the due date.
      (6)   Payment to persons or companies with which the Fire Department has
had to call for assistance with the clean-up shall be the responsibility of the
responsible party. Billing shall be to the responsible party. The responsible
party may call for their own clean-up contractor so long as the contractor can
respond in a reasonably prudent time and manner.
   (E)     Hazardous Materials Response Fund. Money collected under this
section may be used only for the following:
      (1)   Purchase of supplies and equipment used in providing hazardous
materials emergency assistance under this section;
      (2)   Training for members of the Fire Department in skills necessary for
providing hazardous materials emergency assistance under this section; or
      (3)   Payment to persons with which the Fire Department contracts to
provide services related to the hazardous materials emergency assistance
provided by the Fire Department under this section.
(Ord. 1-08, passed 3-24-08)
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention, see
Ch. 93
§ 35.32 PROMOTION OF CITY.
   Commencing with the year 1997, and for each year thereafter and until later
modified by Ordinance, Council shall appropriate the sum of $20,000 for the
promotion of the City.
(Ord. 23-96, passed 8-12-96)
§ 35.33 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the City of Vincennes Cumulative Capital
Development Fund.
   (B)   An ad valorem property tax levy will be imposed and the revenues from
the levy will be retained in the Vincennes Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
   (C)   The City of Vincennes Cumulative Capital Development Fund shall be
used in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-9-15.5 et seq. and all other
provisions of law. The city shall adhere to all related provisions of the
Indiana Code.
   (D)   Notwithstanding division (C), funds accumulated in the Vincennes
Cumulative Capital Development Fund may be spent for purposes other the
purposes stated in division (C), if the purpose is to protect the public
health, welfare or safety in an emergency situation which demands immediate
action. Money may be spent under the authority of this section only after the
Mayor issues a declaration that the public health, welfare or safety is in
immediate danger that requires the expenditure of money in the fund. CCD Fund
monies may be used for roads, sidewalks, sewers, and bridges among other
things.
   (E)   This fund takes effect upon approval of the Department of Local
Government Finance.
(Ord. 11-96, passed 4-23-96; Am. Ord. 14-2013, passed 7-29-13)
§ 35.34 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX FUND.
   There is now established in the City of Vincennes an Economic Development
Income Tax Fund (EDITF) for the receipt of the City's portion of CEDIT funds
from Knox County, Indiana.
(Ord. 11-98, passed 3-9-98)
§ 35.35 POLICE DEPARTMENT DRUG ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to the power set forth to communities by I.C. 36-1-3 (Home
Rule) there is now established a fund to be at the disposal of the Vincennes
Police Department for use by the department in Police Department drug
enforcement activities.
   (B)   Said fund and the procedure governing same shall be established
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-8-3 (Petty Cash Funds Authorized).
   (C)   Minimum documentation procedures are required and must be similar to
either:
      (1)   "Guidelines for the Expenditure of Confidential Funds" published
March 27, 1992, by the Indiana Criminal Justice Institute; or
      (2)   "Guidelines For Obtaining And Accounting For Confidential Funds
Used In Support of Criminal Investigations", (Revised S.O.P.PR - INV-009), by
the Indiana State Police Department.
(Ord. 19-99, passed 7-12-99)
§ 35.36 DARE FUND ACCOUNT.
   (A)   Fund 49 is established as the DARE Fund and the primary source of
revenue deposited in that fund shall be donations from all sources.
   (B)   As the purpose of a DARE program is to provide education to school
children against the use of illegal drugs, expenditures from the fund shall be
to pay the costs of workbooks, supplies, positive reinforcement tools and
course graduation records.
   (C)   The term of the fund established by this section shall be perpetual,
until terminated by another ordinance, and shall be nonreverting at year end.
   (D)   Unless otherwise provided by another ordinance, the disposition of the
fund balance upon the termination of the fund shall be by transfer to the
general fund of the city.
(Ord. 3-2000, passed 3-27-00)
§ 35.37 HAZARDOUS WASTE FUND.
   A Toxic Waste Fund is established and maintained for the purpose of
collection of fees to be transferred to the Knox County Solid Waste to fund
disposition of toxic waste.
(Ord. 8-2000, passed 4-24-00)
§ 35.38 POLICE DEPARTMENT DRUG INVESTIGATION FUND.
   (A)   Fund 62 is established as the Police Drug Investigation Fund, and the
primary source of revenue deposited in that fund, entitled Federal Forfeiture
and Seizure, shall be forfeiture, seizures, and moneys received from the
federal government.
   (B)   As the purpose of the Police Drug Investigation Division is to stop
the manufacturing, sales and use of all illegal drugs, expenditures from this
fund shall be to assist in the costs of drug investigations in accordance with
the statutes and guidelines covered in the Equitable Sharing Agreement.
   (C)   The term of the fund established by this section shall be perpetual
until terminated by another ordinance and shall be nonreverting at year end.
   (D)   Unless otherwise provided by another ordinance, the disposition of the
fund balance upon the termination of the fund shall be by transfer to the
general fund of the city.
(Ord. 10-2000, passed 5-22-00; Am. Ord. 7-2001, passed 4-23-01)
§ 35.39 POLICE DEPARTMENT BLOCK GRANT FUND.
   (A)   Fund 57 is established as the Police Department Block Grant Fund, and
the source of revenue deposited in that fund shall be money received from the
Bureau of Justice Block Grant and the local matching funds. Both amounts to be
listed in the Police Department Bureau of Justice Block Grant Agreement.
   (B)   The purpose of the Police Department Block Grant Fund is to account
for and receipt all deposits and expenditures for funds listed in the Police
Department Bureau of Justice Block Grant.
   (C)   The term of the fund established shall be no longer than 24 months
past the starting date of the Police Department Bureau of Justice Block Grant.
   (D)   Any funds unspent at the end of the 24-month period will be returned
to the Bureau of Justice as mandated in the grant agreement.
(Ord. 24-2000, passed 10-10-00)
§ 35.40 PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT, INDIANA BOATS AND WATER GRANT.
   (A)   Fund 53 is established as the Parks and Recreation Department, Indiana
Boats and Water Grant, and the source of revenue deposited in that fund shall
be money received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources, Indiana
Boats and Water Grant, and the local matching funds. Both amounts to be listed
in the Parks and Recreation Department, Indiana Boats and Water Grant
agreement.
   (B)   The purpose of the Parks and Recreation Department, Indiana Department
of Natural Resources, Indiana Boats and Water Grant is to account for and
receipt all deposits and expenditures for the funds listed in the Parks and
Recreation Department, Indiana Department of Natural Resources, Indiana Boats
and Water Grant.
   (C)   The term of the fund established shall be no longer than December 31,
2001, unless amended by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
(Ord. 29-2000, passed 12-18-00)
§ 35.41 PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT GRANT FUND.
   (A)   Fund 20 is established as the Parks and Recreation Chippekokee
(Chicago) Park project grant known as IDNR WR-00-17, and is dedicated to the
receipt and identification of funds for the Parks and Recreation Department
IDNR grant.
   (B)   Upon adoption of this section, Fund 20 will be created as a non-
reverting fund to be utilized by the Parks and Recreation Department for the
Chippekokee (Chicago) Park budget.
(Ord. 14-2003, passed 7-28-03)
§ 35.42 POLICE DEPARTMENT TRAFFIC SAFETY EQUIPMENT FUND.
   Fund 57 is established as the Traffic Safety Equipment Fund, and is
dedicated to the receipt and identification of funds of the Open Alcohol
Beverage Container Transfer Program.
(Ord. 5-2004, passed 4-26-04)
§ 35.43 POLICE DEPARTMENT TRAINING CENTER FUND.
   (A)   Fund 24 is established as the Police Department Training Center Fund,
and is dedicated to the receipt and identification of funds of the Police
Department Training Center Fund.
   (B)   Upon adoption of this section, the Police Department Training Center
Fund will be a non- reverting fund.
(Ord. 12-2003, passed 5-27-03)
§ 35.44 FIRE DEPARTMENT SEMA HAZ-MAT GRANT FUND.
   Fund 38 is established as the Fire Department SEMA Haz-Mat Grant Fund, and
is dedicated to the receipt and identification of funds of the DHS and the
city.
(Ord. 6-2004, passed 4-26-04)
§ 35.45 FIRE DEPARTMENT ARSON/INSPECTION TRAINING FUND.
   Fund 80 is established as the Fire Department Arson/Inspection Training
Fund, and is dedicated to the receipt and identification of funds of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency and the city.
(Ord. 5-2005, passed 4-11-05)
§ 35.46 FIRE DEPARTMENT HEALTH AND SAFETY EQUIPMENT FUND.
   Fund 85 is established as the Fire Department Health and Safety Equipment
Fund, and is dedicated to the receipt and identification of funds of the
Federal Emergency Management Agency and the city.
(Ord. 3-2004, passed 2-9-04)
§ 35.47 FIRE DEPARTMENT TOBACCO CESSATION FUND.
   (A)   Fund 84 is established as the Fire Department Tobacco Cessation Fund,
and is dedicated to the receipt and identification of funds of the Fire
Department for the purpose of conducting tobacco cessation training for
department members and their families.
   (B)   Upon adoption of this section, the Fire Department Tobacco Cessation
Fund will be a non- reverting fund.
(Ord. 19-2003, passed 9-22-03)
§ 35.48 RIVERBOAT WAGERING TAX REVENUE SHARING CITIES AND TOWNS FUND.
   (A)   Fund 76 is established as the Riverboat Wager Tax Revenue Sharing
Fund, and is dedicated to the receipt and identification of funds for
department equipment and vehicle acquisition and physical plant maintenance,
improvement and repair.
   (B)   Upon adoption of this section, the Riverboat Wager Tax Revenue Sharing
Fund will be a non- reverting fund.
(Ord. 17-2003, passed 9-8-03)
§ 35.49 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   Creation of Rainy Day Fund. There is hereby established a “Rainy Day
Fund” to receive transfers of unused and unencumbered funds raised by a general
or special tax levy on taxable property within the city whenever the purpose of
such tax levy has been fulfilled and an unused and unencumbered balance
remains.
   (B)   Purpose.  The funds on deposit in the Rainy Day Fund may be used for
the operation of the city and its various departments, when the city does not
have sufficient levies or funds to pay such costs, including, but not limited
to, salaries and wages, costs of services, supplies, equipment, capital
improvements, repairs and similar expenditures.
   (C)   Transfer of fund. After the last day of the fiscal year and before
March 1 of the subsequent calendar year, the Common Council shall determine the
amount, if any, of any unused and unencumbered funds available to be
transferred to the Rainy Day Fund, which transfer may not exceed more than 10%
of the city’s total budget for that fiscal year.
   (D)   Appropriations. The Common Council of the city may authorize the
expenditure of funds from the Rainy Day Fund by appropriations made in the same
manner as other funds are appropriated that receive tax monies, upon making a
finding that the proposed use of the funds is consistent with the intent of the
fund.
(Ord. 6-2005, passed 4-25-05)
§ 35.50 CITY COUNCIL DONATION FUND.
   Fund 87 is established as the City Council Donation Fund, and is dedicated
to the receipt, identification, and expenditure of funds designated for the
City Council Donation Fund.
(Ord. 10-2005, passed 8-8-05)
§ 35.51 STORMWATER DRAINAGE PLANNING GRANT FUND.
   The fund entitled Stormwater Drainage Planning Grant is established and is
dedicated to the receipt and identification of funds of the Office of Rural
Affairs of the city.
(Ord. 15-2005, passed 11-28-05)
§ 35.52 RECYCLING CENTER FUND.
   Fund 89 is established and entitles the Street Department to hire part-time
employees for the recycling center.
(Ord. 19-2005, passed 12-19-05)
§ 35.53 HAZ-MAT REIMBURSEMENT FUND.
   Fund 92 established and dedicated to the receipt, identification, and
expenditure of funds designated for the stated purpose.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 2-27-06)
§ 35.54 RURAL DEVELOPMENT GRANT FUND.
   Fund 83 is established and dedicated to the receipt, identification, and
expenditure of funds designated for the stated purpose in the approximate
amount of $235,000.
(Ord. 4-2006, passed 3-13-06)
§ 35.55 MAJOR MOVES FUND.
   Creating Fund 55 for the receipt and expenditure of Major Moves Funds.
(Ord. 12-2006, passed 9-11-06)
§ 35.56 HERITAGE TRAIL FUND.
   Fund 82, entitled Heritage Trail (formerly known as The Riverwalk Project),
is established and dedicated to the receipt and identification of city and
state funds for the creation of a trail project along the Wabash River.
(Ord. 3-2009, passed 4-13-09)
§ 35.57 SECOND STREET RESURFACING FUND.
   Fund 83, entitled Second Street Resurfacing, is established dedicated to the
receipt and identification of city and state funds for resurfacing Second
Street between Hart and Vigo Streets.
(Ord. 4-2009, passed 4-13-09)
§ 35.58 POLICE DEPARTMENT PERMANENT CHILD SEAT SAFETY INSPECTION STATION FUND.
   Fund 252 is established to provide proper control and management of grant
funds, which may only be used to support the Police Department Permanent Child
Safety Seat Inspection Station. This includes personnel costs, advertising and
printing costs, child safety seats (to be provided to families who qualify for
financial need), locking clips, foam noodles, towels, scales, clipboards, tape
measures, recertification fees, and travel costs to attend the ASP annual
refresher course. Money may not be used to pay sales tax, to fund equipment,
food, or premium items such as tee shirts, key chains or pens.
(Ord. 6-2009, passed 8-24-09)
§ 35.59 RIVERFRONT PAVILION FUND.
   Fund 247 is established to provide proper control and management of funds
related to the Riverfront Pavilion. The fund will be used for income and
expenses, including but not limited to, rental fees for private events,
contributions and donations, maintenance, promotion and event costs.
(Ord. 7-2009, passed 8-24-09)
§ 35.60 POLICE DEPARTMENT SHARED GRANT FUND.
   Fund 251 is established to provide the proper control and management of
grant funds, which may only be used to purchase in-car computers for the Police
Department.
(Ord. 16-2009, passed 12-14-09)
§ 35.61 RESERVED.
§ 35.62 POLICE DEPARTMENT OPERATION PULLOVER EQUIPMENT FUND.
   Upon adoption of this section, the creation of Fund 251 entitled Police
Department Operation Pullover Equipment Fund is established dedicated to the
receipt and identification of funds.
(Ord. 27-2010, passed 12-27-10)
§ 35.63 MASTER PLANNING GRANT FUND.
   Upon adoption of this section, the creation of Fund 227 entitled Master
Planning Grant is established dedicated to the receipt and identification of
funds of the state and of the city, for the purpose of creating a Master Plan.
(Ord. 9-2011, passed 9-26-11)
§ 35.64 HOME IMPROVEMENTS GRANT FUND.
   Fund 276 shall be established and grant funds received be appropriated to
said fund, for the purpose of making home improvements in a designated area of
the city.
(Ord. 14-2010, passed 6-14-10)
§ 35.65 PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT POOL RESTROOM RENOVATION GRANT FUND.
   Fund 209 shall be established and grant funds received in the amount of
$12,000 be appropriated to said fund, for renovation of the women’s restroom at
Rainbow Beach Public Swimming Pool located in Gregg Park.
(Ord. 9-2010, passed 4-26-10)
§ 35.66 LOCAL OPTION INCOME TAX FUND.
   (A)   Fund 267 is established for the city.
   (B)   The Fund will be the repository for LOIT special distributions and any
funding source not specifically prohibited by law.
(Ord. 23-2016, passed 5-23-16)
§ 35.67 IHSFG CPR GRANT FUND.
   (A)   Source of funds. The fund (Fund 457) shall consist of grant monies
recieved by the Fire Department from the Indiana Homeland Security Foundation
according to the grant award letter.
   (B)   Use of funds. All monies of the 2020 IHSFG CPR Grant Fund will be
used, without appropriation, solely to implement the “project” and/or to
provide the services in conformance with the “Grant Agreement” entered into by
and between the Indiana Homeland Security Foundation and the city.
   (C)   Non-reverting fund. Fund 457 is a non-reverting fund.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 7-27-20)
§ 35.68 CARES PROVIDER RELIEF FUND.
   CARES Provider Relief Fund (Fund 264) is hereby established for the purpose
of receiving grant money from which expenditures pursuant may be expended for
the furtherance of the scope of the grant and for which the fund is
established.
(Ord. 15-2020, passed 10-13-20)
§ 35.69 POLICE STATION RESTORATION GRANT FUND.
   (A)   Source of funds. The fund (Fund 457) shall consist of city
contributions in the amount of $71,000 as allocated from EDIT Funds and grant
monies in the amount of $50,000 received by the city from the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources/Division of Historic Preservation and
Archaeology according to the grant award letter.
   (B)   Use of funds. All monies of the Police Station Restoration Grant #2
Fund will be used, without appropriation, solely to implement the “Project”
and/or to provide the services in conformance with the “Grant Agreement”
entered into by and between Indiana Department of Natural Resources/Division of
Historic Preservation and Archaeology and the city.
   (C)   Non-reverting fund. Fund 457 is a non-reverting fund.
(Ord. 6-2021, passed 3-22-21)
§ 35.70 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY FUND.
   (A)   There is created a new local grant fund within the Clerk- Treasurer’s
office that shall be titled “ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund,” and
that the Clerk-Treasurer has issued a fund number of _______ with respect to
these monies and that such monies shall be non-reverting.
   (B)   The source of funding includes monies allocated to the city from the
American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 and distributed to the city in 2021 and 2022.
   (C)   The uses of the fund are specified in § 603(C) of the ARP and shall be
used in accordance with U.S. Treasury Guidance, as amended:
      (1)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or its negative economic impacts, including
assistance to households, small businesses, and nonprofits, or to aid the
impacted industries such as tourism, travel and hospitality;
      (2)   To respond to workers performing essential work during the COVID-19
public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible works of the
metropolitan city, non-entitlement unit of local government or county that are
performing such essential work, or by providing grants to eligible employers
that have eligible workers who perform essential work;
      (3)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of such metropolitan city, non- entitlement unit of local
government, or county due to the COVID-19 public health emergency relative to
revenues collected in the most recent full fiscal year of the metropolitan
city, non-entitlement unit of local government or county prior to the
emergency; or
      (4)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer or broadband
infrastructure as approved by the U.S. Treasury.
   (D)   The monies of the fund shall be appropriated by the Common Council
before expenditure and all expenditures shall be approved by the Common Council
with any and all claims to be paid from the fund.
   (E)   The Common Council will establish the plan, conditions and rules upon
which the funds are to be requested and used.
   (F)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep accurate and complete financial records
of the receipt and expenditure of any and all monies deposited into and paid
from the fund.
   (G)   Any unused monies of the fund shall be paid back to the U.S. Treasury,
as required.
   (H)   Monies of the fund shall not be deposited into any pension fund.
   (I)   The future plan approved by the Board of Works and Public Safety for
the use of the funds received for and placed in the ARP Coronavirus Local
Fiscal Recovery Grant Fund Number 150 will allow 100% of the $3,806,976.50
awarded to the city to be designated as the Standard Allowance of Revenue Loss
and said money may be used for general government services subject to the
restrictions of the fund rule, as agreed to by the City Council.
(Ord. 9-2021, passed 4-26-21; Am. Ord. 4-2022, passed 4- -22)
§ 35.71 COSSAP LEAD STIPEND FUND.
   (A)   Source of funds. The fund (Fund 278) shall consist of $10,000 annually
being paid by Good Samaritan Hospital according to the MOU; these funds will be
invoiced quarterly by the administration of the Police Department.
   (B)   Use of funds. All monies of the COSSAP LEAD Stipend will be used,
without appropriation, solely for police equipment and ammunition.
   (C)   Non-reverting fund. Fund 278 is a non-reverting fund.
(Ord. 17-2021, passed 11-22-21)
§ 35.72 STATE ADMINISTERED CDBG PROGRAM FUND.
   (A)   Source of funds. The fund shall consist of federal dollars in arrears,
as this is a reimbursable grant not to exceed $195,000 in public services and
$5,000 in administration; for a total award of $200,000.
   (B)   Use of funds. All monies of the State Administered CDBG Program will
be used, without appropriation, solely for the attached items in Exhibit B of
Ord. 18-2021.
   (C)   Non-reverting fund. Fund 279 is a non-reverting fund.
(Ord. 18-2021, passed 11-22-21)
CHAPTER 36: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
36.01   Creation of Ordinance Violations Bureau
   
36.02   Violations Clerk
   
36.03   Acceptance of written appearances, waivers of trial, admissions of
violations, payment of civil penalties
   
36.04   Ordinances subject to jurisdiction of Ordinance Violations Bureau
   
36.05   Civil penalty
§ 36.01 CREATION OF ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   There shall be created an Ordinance Violations Bureau pursuant to IC 33-6-3-
1 et seq., as amended, for the city.
(Ord. 4-92, passed 3-23-92)
§ 36.02 VIOLATIONS CLERK.
   The City Clerk-Treasurer is appointed and shall serve as the Violations
Clerk, who administers the Bureau.
(Ord. 4-92, passed 3-23-92)
§ 36.03 ACCEPTANCE OF WRITTEN APPEARANCES, WAIVERS OF TRIAL, ADMISSIONS OF
VIOLATIONS, PAYMENT OF CIVIL PENALTIES.
   The Clerk-Treasurer and her staff, as her agents, shall accept written
appearances, waivers of trial, admissions of violations, and payment of civil
penalties in the amount and for the violation as provided below.
(Ord. 4-92, passed 3-23-92)
§ 36.04 ORDINANCES SUBJECT TO JURISDICTION OF ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   The following schedule of ordinances and Code of Ordinance provisions
shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the Ordinance Violations Bureau and the
first violations within a calendar year of said ordinances and code provisions
shall be subject to the civil penalty set forth.
CIVIL PENALTIES
ORDINANCE OR CODE PROVISION  First Offense Second OffenseSubsequent Offense
CIVIL PENALTIES
ORDINANCE OR CODE PROVISION    First Offense Second OffenseSubsequent Offense
Chapter 50 - Trash Collection $30            $40             $50
Chapter 73 - Bicycles
73.15(A) traffic laws          $25           $25           $25
applicable
73.17 obedience to traffic-   $25            $25             $25
control devices
73.18(B) number of riders     $25            $25             $25
73.18(F) clinging to vehicles $25            $25             $25
73.20(C) riding on sidewalk   $25            $25             $25
73.21 lights and other        $25            $25             $25
equipment
73.22 license required        $25            $25             $25
Chapter 90 - Junk vehicles    $50            $50             $50
Chapter 91 - Animals
91.005 nuisance               $10            $20             $30
91.010 animal care            $10            $20             $30
91.012 wild animals           $10            $20             $30
91.013 large animals          $10            $20             $30
91.014 spay-neuter            $10            $20             $30
91.025,                       $10            $20             $30
91.026 licensing
91.055 rabies                 $10            $20             $30
91.070 kennels                $10            $20             $30
91.070 -
91.076 commercial animal      $10            $20             $30
establishment permits
91.090 -
91.097 non-commercial animal  $10            $20             $30
permits
Weeds
95.15 -                       $10            $20             $30
95.17
Amusements
112.16 -                      $25            $25             $25
112.19
 
   (B)   The Common Council may from time to time by ordinance or resolution
add or delete from the schedule ordinance violations which are subject to the
Ordinance Violations Bureau. Any third admission or judgment of a violation of
the same ordinance or code provision scheduled above within a calendar year
shall be subject to the penalty set forth above plus $10 as the total civil
penalty.
(Ord. 4-92, passed 3-23-92)
§ 36.05 CIVIL PENALTY.
   The provisions of the Code of Ordinances and the ordinances referred to
herein are hereby amended to provide and declare the civil penalty scheduled
with the ordinance or code provision to be the specific civil penalty for the
violation of the ordinance or code provision.
(Ord. 4-92, passed 3-23-92)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   TRASH COLLECTION
         
51.   SEWERS
         
52.   WATER
         
53.   STORMWATER
CHAPTER 50: TRASH COLLECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definition of trash
   
50.02   Trash collection services
   
50.03   Authorized containers
   
50.04   Requirements for trash collection pickup
   
50.05   Limitations on trash eligible for collection
   
50.06   Revenues; special fund
   
50.07   Commercial entities and multi-unit dwelling
   
50.08   Violations
   
50.09   Recycling
   
50.10   Household hazardous waste list
Littering
   
50.20   Dumping or littering upon streets, sidewalks or other public places
   
50.21   Sweeping litter into gutters prohibited
   
50.22   Duty to keep sidewalks free of litter
   
50.23   Throwing litter from vehicles prohibited
   
50.24   Trucks causing litter
   
50.25   Litter in parks and lakes
   
50.26   Litter on private property
   
50.27   Posting of notices
   
50.28   Clearing of litter from private property by city
Debris and Junk
   
50.40   Definition of debris and junk
   
50.41   Debris and junk collection services
   
50.42   Debris and junk on private property
   
50.43   Duty to keep sidewalks free of debris and junk
   
50.44   Clearing of debris and junk from private property by city
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Ordinance Violations Bureau, see
Ch. 36
   Commercial trash haulers, see §§
115.20 through
115.24
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITION OF TRASH.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRASH. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid and semi-solid items of
waste except for:
      (1)   Liquids;
      (2)   Liquid or water carried wastes which are normally disposed of in
sanitary sewer systems;
      (3)   Hazardous wastes;
      (4)   Building materials; and
      (5)   Appliances, furniture, household fixtures, and/or any other similar
bulky items.
(Ord. 3-92, passed 4-13-92)
§ 50.02 TRASH COLLECTION SERVICES.
   The city, acting through its Streets and Sanitation Department, shall
provide a curbside, roadside, or alley trash collection service to residents
located within the city. Such trash collection services shall be provided on a
weekly basis by the city. The weekly schedule shall be subject to change
necessitated by special circumstances, including but not limited to: holidays;
special events, weather, or equipment breakdown; any changes in the weekly
schedule will be announced by the city, in advance, if possible, to the local
news media.
(Ord. 3-92, passed 4-13-92)
§ 50.03 AUTHORIZED CONTAINERS.
   To be eligible for collection by the city, trash must be contained within
trash bags not to exceed 33 gallon capacity and at least 1.2 mil thick. Bags
may contain no more than 35 pounds of trash. Affixed to each such bag shall be
an official trash collection sticker or emblem. Official city trash collection
stickers will be sold for $1.25 each and will be available from the city or
approved commercial vendors; no other receptacle, containers, or bags
containing trash will be collected by the city pursuant to the trash collection
service. The $1.25 per sticker fee or emblem shall be used to defray the costs
of providing the trash collection service, county landfill tipping fees,
education on solid waste disposal and recycling and composting costs, labor and
equipment costs.
(Ord. 3-92, passed 4-13-92; Am. Ord. 21-2010, passed 11-8-10)
§ 50.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR TRASH COLLECTION PICKUP.
   Items which are to be picked up by the city pursuant to this trash
collection service, shall be placed in the specially designed totes provided by
the city and adjacent to the designated public right-of-way immediately
adjacent to the individual's residence within five feet of the designated
public right-of-way prior to 7:00 a.m. on the date scheduled for said
collection, but not earlier than two hours prior to sundown (dusk) on the date
preceding the scheduled collection. All bags must be inside the tote and the
lid must be closed. Additional totes may be required.
(Ord. 3-92, passed 4-13-92; Am. Ord. 15-2012, passed 8-14-12)
§ 50.05 LIMITATIONS ON TRASH ELIGIBLE FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   To be eligible for collection by the city, all trash must be placed
within and enclosed within a properly tagged trash bag of the specified size
and weight. The bag must be closed and tied tightly, torn bags or loose trash
will not be collected. Authorized stickers or emblems must be prominently
displayed and permanently affixed to the trash bag. If the stickers are not
readily visible to the sanitation worker, the bag or bags will not be
collected.
   (B)   Hedge and/or tree trimmings, if securely tied in bundles, not
exceeding one foot in diameter and five feet in length, will be eligible for
collection at special request on designated days. A composting area will be
made available for yard waste. Animal waste consisting of dog droppings or cat
litter must be double bagged. The 35 pound limit must be observed if combining
animal waste with other trash.
(Ord. 3-92, passed 4-13-92)
§ 50.06 REVENUES; SPECIAL FUND.
   The revenues generated from the collection of fees and service charges from
trash collection as provided for above, shall be deposited in a separate fund,
expenditures from which shall be limited to cost associated with the collection
and disposal of trash, recycling, and composting materials, education and the
purchase of equipment necessary to provide such services to the residents and
citizens of this community.
(Ord. 3-92, passed 4-13-92)
§ 50.07 COMMERCIAL ENTITIES AND MULTI-UNIT DWELLING.
   Collection will not be provided to commercial establishments or rental units
containing more than four units. It will be the responsibility of the owner or
landlord to arrange for private trash collection services. Limitations on the
time for trash setout shall be observed by commercial entities and apartment
complexes or rental property containing more than four units.
(Ord. 3-92, passed 4-13-92)
§ 50.08 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It will be considered a violation of this subchapter for any person,
firm or corporation to discard trash in unapproved bags or containers or to
leave trash on any public or private property unless specifically authorized to
do so. It shall also be a violation of this subchapter for any person, firm or
corporation to tamper with any approved containers or authorized stickers or
emblems or to attempt to remove them from approved containers.
   (B)   In addition to the fine imposed by §
50.99 for the violation of any provision of this chapter the violator shall
also be liable to the city for all damages and expenses incurred by the city by
reason of such violation in a civil action brought for such purpose.
(Ord. 3-92, passed 4-13-92)
§ 50.09 RECYCLING.
   (A)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply to the section.
      (1)    TRASH BAGS. Trash bags shall be 33 gallon unit bags with a weight
limitation capacity of 35 pounds.
      (2)    TOTE. A container of 14.5 gallon capacity which shall be a uniform
container purchased from the City of Vincennes.
      (3)    UNIT OF TRASH. Non-recyclable items.
   (B)   Curbside recycling routes and schedules shall be established by the
Vincennes Board of Public Works and Safety acting upon the advise of the
Superintendent of the Street and Sanitation Department.
   (C)   (1)   All recyclables must be properly placed in uniform containers
purchased from the City of Vincennes.
      (2)   Recyclers shall be entitled to one unit of unstickered, non-
recyclable waste for each two full units of recyclables.
   (D)   Units of non-recyclable waste properly offered for pick-up pursuant to
this section shall not be in conflict with any provisions of
Chapter 50 of the Vincennes City Ordinances.
(Ord. 5-98, passed 1-26-98)
§ 50.10 HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE LIST.
   The city, through its Street Department, will act as a depository for the
collection of hazardous household waste items. The city shall establish a list
of items that may be collected at the hazardous household waste dispoal
collection facility. The list establishing acceptable items shall be posted at
the facility and shall be subject to change without notice. The charge for
accepting items shall be equal to one-half of the cost of disposal.
(Ord. 43-98, passed 10-13-98)
LITTERING
§ 50.20 DUMPING OR LITTERING UPON STREETS, SIDEWALKS OR OTHER PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall dump, throw or place upon the ground any garbage, trash or
refuse, or cause, allow or permit the same to be dumped, thrown or placed upon
the ground; nor shall any person throw or deposit litter in or upon any street,
sidewalk or other public place within the city, except in public receptacles,
in authorized private receptacles or in official dumps or landfills.
('71 Code, § 91.09) (Ord. 40-69, passed 2-10-70) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
area within the city the accumulation of litter from any building, lot or
private premises or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway.
('71 Code, § 91.10) (Ord. 40-69, passed 2-10-70) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.22 DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS FREE OF LITTER.
   All persons owning or occupying property or places of business shall have
the duty of keeping the sidewalks adjacent to their premises free of all
litter.
('71 Code, § 91.11) (Ord. 40-69, passed 2-10-70) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLES.
   No person, while a driver or passenger in any vehicle, shall throw or
deposit litter upon any street or other public place within the city, or upon
any private property.
('71 Code, § 91.12) (Ord. 40-69, passed 2-10-70) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24 TRUCKS CAUSING LITTER.
   No person shall drive any truck or other vehicle within the city unless that
vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load, contents or litter
from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or other public place. No
person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the wheels or
tires of which deposit mud, dirt, litter or other substances upon any public
street, alley or other public place.
('71 Code, § 91.13) (Ord. 40-69, passed 2-10-70) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25 LITTER IN PARKS AND LAKES.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within the city, except
in acceptable litter receptacles. No person shall throw or deposit litter in
any pond, lake, stream or any other body of water within the city. Where public
litter receptacles are not provided, all litter shall be carried away from the
park, or body of water, by the person or persons responsible for the presence
of that litter.
('71 Code, § 91.14) (Ord. 40-69, passed 2-10-70) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.26 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw, deposit or accumulate litter on any private property
within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the owner or
person in control of the private property may maintain authorized private
receptacle for collection, and in order that the litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or upon
other private property. In areas zoned Residential, containers shall not exceed
one-half yard in size, hauler's vehicles shall not be greater than single axle,
and pick-up shall not commence until 7:00 a.m.
('71 Code, § 91.15) (Ord. 40-69, passed 2-10-70; Am. Ord. 13-98, passed 5-10-
98) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.27 POSTING OF NOTICES.
   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster or other paper or device to
any lamppost, public utility pole or shade tree, or upon any public structure
or building, except as may be authorized by law.
('71 Code, § 91.17) (Ord. 40-69, passed 2-10-70) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.28 CLEARING OF LITTER FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY BY CITY.
   (A)   Notice to remove. The City Inspector, Police Department and the Street
and Sanitation Department are all authorized and empowered to notify the owner
of any open or vacant private property within the city or the agent of that
owner to properly dispose of litter located on the owner's property which is
dangerous to public health, safety or welfare. This notice shall be delivered
by registered or certified mail, addressed to the owner at his last known
address.
   (B)   Action upon noncompliance. Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any
owner or agent so notified, to properly dispose of litter dangerous to the
public health, safety or welfare within three days after receipt of written
notice provided for in division (A) above, or within three days after the date
of that notice in the event the same is returned to the city by the U.S. Post
Office Department because of its inability to make delivery thereof, provided
the same was properly addressed to the last known address of that owner or
agent, the work of disposing of the litter shall be done or caused to be done
by the city, and all authorized officers, employees and contracting agents of
the city, and each of them are hereby expressly authorized to enter into and
upon private property for the purpose of removing and disposing of that litter.
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere, hinder or to refuse to allow
any persons so authorized to enter and upon private property for that purpose.
   (C)   Costs constitutes lien on placing on tax duplicate.
      (1)   The actual costs of the city for so removing and disposing of the
litter shall be, and the same is declared and constitutes, a lien in favor of
the city upon and against the property; and all costs, together with any
penalty applicable thereto, shall be collected in the manner hereinafter set
forth. In all cases where the full amount due the city is not paid to the
Clerk-Treasurer of the city by the owner or shall thereunder become and is
declared to be delinquent, and a penalty of 10% of the amount of those costs
shall thereupon be attached thereto and shall be included in the lien and shall
be collected in addition to those costs. Whenever a delinquency occurs for
nonpayment of costs, the Clerk-Treasurer shall file in the County Recorder's
office, a notice of lien setting forth the name or names of the owner or owners
of each such property on which those costs have become delinquent, and further
setting forth the description of each such property as shown by the records of
the County Auditor's office and the amount of those delinquent costs and the
amount of penalty thereon. The lien shall be attached to the property described
in the notice of lien from the time of the recording of the notice of lien.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer is further authorized and directed to certify
to the County Auditor a true copy of the notice of lien and the amount of the
delinquent costs and penalty thereon shall be charged to that property on the
tax duplicate and shall be collected in the same manner that the taxes are
collected by law. This notice of lien so filed, recorded and certified in
accordance with the provisions hereof shall be prima facie evidence that the
provisions of this subchapter have been fully complied with and that the work
has been done in accordance with the provisions hereof, and shall be full
notice to any person whomsoever that the amount of the lien constitutes a
charge and lien against the property therein described, and that the same is
due and collectible as provided by law.
      (3)   Upon collection of those costs and penalty thereon, the County
Auditor or other appropriate county official shall pay over to the Clerk-
Treasurer the amount of those costs so collected, together with one-half of the
penalty thereon, retaining for the use and benefit of the county the remaining
one-half of the penalty as a fee for collection.
('71 Code, § 91.18) (Ord. 40-69, passed 2-10-70; Am. Ord. 10-2002, passed 7-22-
02; Am. Ord. 6-2010, passed 5-24-10)
DEBRIS AND JUNK
§ 50.40 DEFINITION OF DEBRIS AND JUNK.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, debris and junk shall be defined to
include the following:
   (A)   Liquids;
   (B)   Liquid or water carried wastes which are normally disposed of in
sanitary sewer systems;
   (C)   Hazardous wastes;
   (D)   Building materials; and
   (E)   Appliances, furniture, household fixtures, motor vehicle parts and/or
other similar bulky items.
(Ord. 8-99, passed 3-22-99)
§ 50.41 DEBRIS AND JUNK COLLECTION SERVICES.
   The City shall not be charged with the responsibility of collecting debris
and junk as defined in this subchapter. The disposition of debris and junk
shall be the responsibility of the individual property owner or tenant.
(Ord. 8-99, passed 3-22-99)
§ 50.42 DEBRIS AND JUNK ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw, deposit, or accumulate debris or junk on any private
property within the City, whether owned by that person or not.
(Ord. 8-99, passed 3-22-99)
§ 50.43 DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS FREE OF DEBRIS AND JUNK.
   All persons owning or occupying property or places of business shall have
the duty of keeping the sidewalks adjacent to their premises free of all debris
and junk.
(Ord. 8-99, passed 3-22-99)
§ 50.44 CLEARING OF DEBRIS AND JUNK FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY BY CITY.
   (A)   Notice to remove. The City Inspector is authorized and empowered to
notify the owner or occupant of any open or vacant private property within the
City or the agent of that onwer or occupant to properly dispose of debris and
junk located on the owner's or occupant's property which is dangerous to the
public health, safety or welfare. This notice shall be by registered or
certified mail, addressed to the owner and/or occupant at his last known
address.
   (B)   Action upon noncompliance. Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any
owner, occupant, or agent so notified, to properly dispose of debris and/or
junk dangerous to the public health, safety, or welfare within ten days after
receipt of written notice provided for in division (A), or within ten days
after the date of that notice in the event that same is returned to the City by
the U.S. Post Office Department because of its inability to make delivery
thereof, provided that same is properly addressed to the last known address of
that owner, occupant or agent, the work of disposing of the debris or junk
shall be done or cause to be done by the City, and all authorized officers,
employees, and contracting agents of the City, and each of them are hereby
expressly authorized to enter into and upon private property for the purpose of
removing and disposing ofthat debris or junk. It shall be unlawful for any
person to interfere, hinder or refuse to allow persons so authorized to enter
upon private property for that purpose.
   (C)   Costs constitute lien on placing on tax duplicate.
      (1)   The actual costs of the city for so removing and disposing of the
debris and junk shall be, and the same is declared and constitutes, a lien in
favor of the city upon and against the property; and all costs, together with
any penalty applicable thereto, shall be collected in the manner hereinafter
set forth. In all cases where the full amount due the city is not paid to the
Clerk-Treasurer of the city by the owner or shall thereunder become and is
declared to be delinquent, and a penalty of 10% of the amount of those costs
shall thereupon be attached thereto and shall be included in the lien and shall
be collected in addition to those costs. Whenever a delinquency occurs for
nonpayment of costs, the Clerk-Treasurer shall file in the County Recorder's
office, a notice of lien setting forth the name or names of the owner or owners
of each such property on which those costs has become delinquent, and further
setting forth the description of each such property as shown by the records of
the County Auditor's office and the amount of those delinquent costs and the
amount of penalty thereon. The lien shall be attached to the property described
in the notice of lien from the time of the recording of the notice of lien.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer is further authorized and directed to certify
to the County Auditor a true copy of the notice of lien and the amount of the
delinquent costs and penalty thereon shall be charged to that property on the
tax duplicate and shall be collected in the same manner that the taxes are
collected by law. This notice of lien so filed, recorded and certified in
accordance with the provisions hereof shall be prima facie evidence that the
provisions of this subchapter have been fully complied with and that the work
has been done in accordance with the provisions hereof, and shall be full
notice to any person whomsoever that the amount of the lien constitutes a
charge and lien against the property therein described, and that the same is
due and collectible as provided by law.
      (3)   Upon collection of those costs and penalty thereon, the County
Auditor or other appropriate county official shall pay over to the Clerk-
Treasurer the amount of those costs so collected, together with one-half of the
penalty thereon, retaining for the use and benefit of the county the remaining
one-half of the penalty as a fee for collection.
(Ord. 8-99, passed 3-22-99)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter for which no penalty
is otherwise provided shall be fined not more than $2,500.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
50.01 through
50.08 shall be guilty of a municipal ordinance violation punishable by a
municipal fine of $30 for the first offense, $40 for the second offense
occurring during the same calendar year, and $50 for each subsequent offense
occurring during the same calendar year. Any such fines shall be subject to the
Ordinance Violations Bureau procedure for collection and payment of fines.
(Ord. 3-92, passed 4-13-92)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
50.32 through 50.35 shall be guilty of a municinal ordinance violation
punishable by a municipal fine of $30.00 for the first offense, $40.00 for the
second offense occuring during the same calendar year, and $50.00 for each
subsequent offense occuring during the same calendar year. Any such fines shall
be subject to the Ordinance Violations Bureau procedure for collection and
payment of fines.
(Ord. 8-99, passed 3-22-99)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Depositing objectionable wastes on public or private property
   
51.003   Discharge of sanitary sewage or other polluted waters to natural
outlets
   
51.004   Owner's responsibility to install suitable toilet facilities
   
51.005   Tampering with or damaging municipal sewage works
   
51.006   Right of entry for purpose of inspection
Private Sewage Disposal Systems
   
51.020   Privies, septic tanks and other facilities; construction or
maintenance prohibited
   
51.021   Connecting building sewer to private sewage disposal system
   
51.022   Permit and inspection
   
51.023   Compliance with State Board of Health
   
51.024   Connecting private sewage disposal system to public sewer
   
51.025   Maintenance of private sewage disposal facilities
   
51.026   Noninterference with additional requirements
   
51.027   Filling cesspools and vaults; cleaning upon notification
Building Sewer and Connections 
   
51.040   Permit required; application
   
51.041   Permit/inspection fee
   
51.042   Duty of owner to connect sewer lines after city construction of
connecting spur; inspection
   
51.043   Costs and expenses of installation and connection of building sewer;
indemnification
   
51.044   Separate building sewer provided for every building
   
51.045   Use of old building sewers with new buildings
   
51.046   Pipe and joint specifications
   
51.047   Size and slope
   
51.048   Gravity flow; artificial means to lift drains
   
51.049   Elevation of building sewer; installation shall be open trench work
   
51.050   Sources of surface runoff or ground water; connection to building
drains prohibited
   
51.051   Excavations
   
51.052   Inspection of connection to public sewer
Use of Public Sewers
   
51.060   Discharge of storm water and other unpolluted waters
   
51.061   Prohibited discharges to public sewers
   
51.062   Discharge of certain wastes restricted
   
51.063   Restriction on large volume discharges
   
51.064   Pretreatment; equalization of waste flows
   
51.065   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
51.066   Preliminary treatment facilities
   
51.067   Control manholes
   
51.068   Measurements, tests and analyses
   
51.069   Industrial wastes; special agreement
Pretreatment of Sewage
   
51.070   Pretreatment ordinance
Sewer Rates and Charges
   
51.080   Definitions
   
51.081   Establishment of rates and charges
   
51.082   Determination of charge by city
   
51.083   Certain adjustments by the city
   
51.084   Basis for rates and charges
   
51.085   Extension of local and lateral sewers
   
51.086   Required connection
   
51.087   Connection charge for city construction
   
51.088   Tap-fee and installation
   
51.089   Delinquent charges and fees
Stormwater Service
   
51.090   Definitions
   
51.091   Operation and maintenance of the city ditch stormwater system
   
51.092   Stormwater service fund
   
51.093   Stormwater service fees
   
51.094   Fee billing system
   
51.095   Delinquent fees
   
51.096   Customer appeals of rate classifications and fees charged
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.100   Authority of city
   
51.101   Notice of violations; liability
   
51.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Septic tank contractors, see §§
115.01 through
115.06
   Plugging sewer drains in demolished buildings, see §
150.66
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND.  The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20° C., expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BOARD. The City's Utility Service Board, if it has the authority to operate
the sewer department. The Board of Works, if there is no Utility Service Board
or if the Utility Service Board does not have the authority to operate the
sewer department.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning two feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COLLECTION SYSTEM. The sanitary sewers, combined sewers and all other
devices and structures used to collect and transfer sewage to the wastewater
treatment plant.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial processes as
distinguished from sanitary sewage.
   INSPECTOR. The person duly authorized by the city through its Board of
Public Works and Safety to inspect and approve the installation of building
sewers and their connection to the public sewer system.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   OWNER. The person named on the Deed of Record for the property receiving
sewer service.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carried sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with the ground
surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTE WATER TREATMENT PLANT. A facility designed
to treat sewage coming from sanitary or combined system.
   SEWAGE WORKS. Sewage treatment plants; intercepting sewers; main sewers;
submain sewers; local sewers; lateral sewers; outfall sewers; storm sewers;
force main; pumping stations; ejector stations; any other structures necessary
of useful for the collection, treatment, purification, and sanitary disposal of
the liquid waste, solid waste, sewage, storm drainage, and other drainage of a
municipality.
   SEWER. For sanitary sewers— a pipe or conduit for carrying a sewage. For
storm sewers— a pipe, conduit, drain, ditch or channel for carrying storm and
surface waters and drainage.
   SEWER DEPARTMENT. The department of city government responsible for the
operation of the wastewater treatment plant and the sewage collection system.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   STORMWATER SYSTEM. All constructed facilities, structures and natural
watercourses used for collecting and conducting storm and surface waters to,
through and from drainage areas to a point of final outlet into a river. A
stormwater system shall include, but not be limited to, any and all of the
following: inlets, conduits and appurtenant features, creeks, channels, catch
basins, ditches, streams, culverts, retention or detention basins and pumping
stations collecting or conducting stormwater.
   SUPERINTENDENT.  The Superintendent of Municipal Sewage Works of the city,
or his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
('71 Code, § 51.01) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 5-76, passed 7-12-76)
§ 51.002 DEPOSITING OBJECTIONABLE WASTES ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in an unsanitary
manner upon public or private property within the city, or in any area under
the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste.
('71 Code, § 51.02(A)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.003 DISCHARGE OF SANITARY SEWAGE OR OTHER POLLUTED WATERS TO NATURAL
OUTLETS.
   No person shall discharge into any natural outlet within the city, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sanitary sewage, industrial waste
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
('71 Code, § 51.02(B)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.004 OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY TO INSTALL SUITABLE TOILET FACILITIES.
   The owner of any house, building or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the city and abutting
any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now or may in the future be
located a public sewer or combined sewer of the city, is required at his
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect those
facilities directly with proper public sewers in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.
('71 Code, § 51.04) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 1-2002, passed 3-25-
02)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.005 TAMPERING WITH OR DAMAGING MUNICIPAL SEWAGE WORKS.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person on
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge
of disorderly conduct.
('71 Code, § 51.15) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.006 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR PURPOSE OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Superintendent and his duly authorized representatives bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurements, sampling
and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The City
Inspector, the Sewer Superintendent and his representatives shall have no
authority to inquire into processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil,
refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or
facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the City Inspector, the Sewer Superintendent and his
duly authorized representatives shall observe all safety rules applicable to
the premises established by the company and the company shall be held harmless
for injury or death to the representatives and the city shall indemnify the
company against loss or damage to its property by city employees and against
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required by §
51.066.
   (C)   The City Inspector, Sewer Superintendent and his duly authorized
representatives bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds
easements for the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, testing, repair and maintenance of any portion of the
sewage works lying within that easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any,
on the easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
easement pertaining to the private property involved.
('71 Code, § 51.16) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65; Am. 23-82, passed 5-10-82)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
§ 51.020 PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS AND OTHER FACILITIES; CONSTRUCTION OR
MAINTENANCE PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall construct or maintain any
privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facilities intended or used
for the disposal of sewage.
('71 Code, § 51.03) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.021 CONNECTING BUILDING SEWER TO PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of § 51.004, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with all the provisions of this chapter.
('71 Code, § 51.05(A)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 1-2002, passed 3-
25-02)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.022 PERMIT AND INSPECTION.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Superintendent. A
permit and inspection fee of $30 shall be paid to the Sewer Department at the
time the application is filed. A permit for a private sewage disposal system
shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the
satisfaction of the Superintendent. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at
any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within 48 hours of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 1-2002, passed 3-25-02) Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.023 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE BOARD OF HEALTH.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Board of Health. No
permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than
20,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any natural outlet.
('71 Code, § 51.05(E)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 5-76, passed 7-12-
76; Am. Ord. 1-2002, passed 3-25-02)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.024 CONNECTING PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   At a time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system as provided in § 51.004, a direct connection
shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter, and any
septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be
abandoned and filled with suitable material.
('71 Code, § 51.05(B)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 1-2002, passed 3-
25-02)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.025 MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
('71 Code, § 51.05(C)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 1-2002, passed 3-
25-02)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.026 NONINTERFERENCE WITH ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
('71 Code, § 51.05(D)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 1-2002, passed 3-
25-02)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.027 FILLING CESSPOOLS AND VAULTS; CLEANING UPON NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   No owner of real estate in the city shall fill any open cesspool or
privy vault with dirt without first having covered the contents of that vault
or cesspool with quick lime to a depth of not less than three inches.
('71 Code, § 97.01)
   (B)   No person shall permit any privy vault or cesspool within the city to
become filled to within less than three feet of the surface of the ground. All
privy vaults must be deodorized and disinfected that they shall emit no noxious
gases or offensive odors.
('71 Code, § 97.02)
   (C)   Whenever a privy vault or cesspool emits odors or becomes too full or
needs reconstruction, the owner, occupant or agent of the premises shall
disinfect or clean and reconstruct within five days after receiving written or
printed notice to do so from the City-County Board of Health. If the notice is
not complied with, it shall be duty of the City-County Board of Health to
employ some person to execute its order at the expense of the occupant, owner
or agent and shall also commence proceedings before the Mayor.
('71 Code, § 97.03)
(Am. Ord. 1-2002, passed 3-25-02)
Penalty, see § 51.999
BUILDING SEWER AND CONNECTIONS 
§ 51.040 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the City Inspector.
('71 Code, § 51.06(A))
   (B)   The owner or his agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the city. The permit applications shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment
of the Inspector.
('71 Code, § 51.06(B))
(Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 2-90, passed 2-12-90)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.041 PERMIT/INSPECTION FEE.
   There shall be a permit/inspection fee of $30 required for connection to a
new or existing city sewer line in addition to the tap charge and installation
fees set forth in §§
51.080 through
51.089. The permit/inspection fee shall be paid at the time a permit is
acquired.
('71 Code, § 51.06(C)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 2-90, passed 3-12-
90)
§ 51.042 DUTY OF OWNER TO CONNECT SEWER LINES AFTER CITY CONSTRUCTION OF
CONNECTING SPUR; INSPECTION.
   It shall be the obligation of the owner to connect the owner's sewer lines
to the city's sewer lines after the city has constructed the connecting spur.
It is further the owner's obligation to have the connection inspected and
approved by the City Inspector prior to covering over the private lateral
trench.
('71 Code, § 51.06(D)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 2-90, passed 3-12-
90)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.043 COSTS AND EXPENSES OF INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION OF BUILDING SEWER;
INDEMNIFICATION.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation.
('71 Code, § 51.07) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65)
§ 51.044 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWER PROVIDED FOR EVERY BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another or an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and whole
considered as one building sewer.
('71 Code, § 51.08(A)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.045 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS WITH NEW BUILDINGS.  
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
('71 Code, § 51.08(B)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.046 PIPE AND JOINT SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The building sewer shall be constructed of either vitrified clay sewer
pipe and fittings meeting the current A.S.T.M. specifications or standard or
extra strength clay sewer pipe, extra heavy cast iron soil [pipe] meeting the
current A.S.T.M. specifications or the Department of Commerce Commercial
Standards for extra heavy cast iron soil pipe and fittings or plastic pipe
meeting U.P.C., Table A, Schedule 40, IAPMO IS 5-77 and A.S.T.M. D2665-68. If
installed in filled or unstable ground, the building sewer shall be cast iron
soil pipe, except that vitrified clay pipe or plastic pipe may be accepted if
laid on a suitable improved bed or cradle as approved by the City Inspector.
('71 Code, § 51.08(C))
   (B)   (1)   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and
watertight. Vitrified clay sewer pipe shall be fitted with factory made
resilient compression joints meeting the A.S.T.M. “specifications for vitrified
clay pipe joints having resilient properties” (Designation C425). Before
joining the pipe in the trench, the bell and spigot surfaces shall be wiped
free of dirt or other foreign matter. A lubricant or sealer as recommended by
the pipe manufacturer shall be applied to the bell and spigot mating surfaces
just before they are joined together.
      (2)   The spigot end shall be positioned into the bell end of the pipe
previously laid and shall then be shoved home to compress the joint and to
assure a tight fit between the interfaces. Solvent for plastic pipe joints
shall be that which is recommended by the pipe manufacturer. Connection between
clay tile and plastic pipe shall be made by means of an approved adapter.
      (3)   Joints of cast iron pipe shall be made by inserting a roll of hemp
or jute and thoroughly caulking it into place and then following with pure
molten lead well caulked not less than one inch deep. No paint, varnish or
putty will be allowed in the joints until they have been tested and approved.
('71 Code, § 51.08(D))
   (C)   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Cast
iron pipe joints shall be firmly packed with oakum or hemp and filled with
molten lead, federal specification QQ-L-156, not less than one-inch deep. Lead
shall be run in one pouring and caulked tight. No paint, varnish or other
coatings shall be permitted on the jointing material until after the joint has
been tested and approved.
      (1)   All joints in vitrified clay pipe or between the pipe and metals
shall be made with approved jointing material in accordance with the latest
edition of Volume III, “Plumbing Rules and Regulations of the Administrative
Building Council of the State of Indiana.”
      (2)   Other jointing materials and methods may be used only by approval
of the Inspector.
('71 Code, § 51.08(H))
(Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 23-82, passed 5-10-82)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.047 SIZE AND SLOPE.
   The size and slope of the building sewers shall be subject to the approval
of the Inspector, but in no event shall the diameter be less than four inches.
The slope of one-quarter inch per foot shall be used wherever practical.
('71 Code, § 51.08(E)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 23-82, passed 5-10-
82)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.048 GRAVITY FLOW; ARTIFICIAL MEANS TO LIFT DRAINS.
   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity
flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewer carried by those drains shall be
lifted by an approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer. No
water-operated sewage ejector shall be used.
('71 Code, § 51.08(F)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 23-82, passed 5-10-
82)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.049 ELEVATION OF BUILDING SEWER; INSTALLATION SHALL BE OPEN TRENCH WORK.
   Whenever possible the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. The depth shall be sufficient to afford
protection from frost. All excavations required for the installation of a
building sewer shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the
Inspector. Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with
A.S.T.M. specifications (Designation C12), except with no backfill shall be
placed until the work has been inspected by the Inspector or his
representative.
('71 Code, § 51.08(G)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 23-82, passed 5-10-
82)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.050 SOURCES OF SURFACE RUNOFF OR GROUND WATER; CONNECTION TO BUILDING
DRAINS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to public sanitary sewer.
('71 Code, § 51.05(F)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 5-76, passed 7-12-
76)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.051 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installations shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks. parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
('71 Code, § 51.08(J)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 23-82, passed 5-10-
82)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.052 INSPECTION OF CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector or his
representative.
('71 Code, § 51.08(I)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 23-82, passed 5-10-
82)
Penalty, see § 51.999
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.060 DISCHARGE OF STORM WATER AND OTHER UNPOLLUTED WATERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, sub-surface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
those sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling
waters or unpolluted process waters may be discharged upon approval of the
Superintendent to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
('71 Code, §§ 51.09; 51.10(A)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.061 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or flammable or explosive
liquid, solid or gas.
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works not of acceptable standards in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant.
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders not of acceptable standards in the
receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
('71 Code, § 51.10 (B)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 5-76, passed 7-12-
76)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.062 DISCHARGE OF CERTAIN WASTES RESTRICTED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged excessive amounts of the
following described substances, materials, waters or wastes thereby harming
either the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse
effect on the receiving stream or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public
property, or constitute a nuisance. In forming his decision as to the
acceptability of these wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to
those factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of sewers, nature of the
sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of
treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent
factors as provided in NPDES. The substances prohibited are those that do not
meet requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies of
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters as follows:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F. (62°C.)
   (B)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 and 150°F. (0 and 65°C.)
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of ¾ horsepower (0.76 hp
metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Superintendent.
   (D)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes, or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
   (E)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the Treatment Works exceeds the capability of secondary
treatment plant to reduce the pollutants in the composite waste at the plant to
levels acceptable by NPDES.
   (F)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances in such concentration in the composite exceeding limits,
after treatment of composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state,
federal, and other public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the
receiving waters.
   (G)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed the limits after treatment of the composite sewage in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations.
   (H)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.0.
   (I)   Materials which exert or cause:
      (1)   Unusual concentration of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate.)
      (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions).
      (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
those quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
      (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined in § 51.001.
   (J)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to that degree that the sewage treatment plant
affluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to receiving waters.
('71 Code, § 51.10(C)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 5-76, passed 7-12-
76)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.063 RESTRICTION ON LARGE VOLUME DISCHARGES.
   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having a five-
day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 400 parts per million by weight;
containing more than 450 parts per million by weight of suspended solids; or
containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics described in §
51.061, having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average daily
sewage flow of the city, shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Superintendent. Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide at his expense a preliminary treatment as may be necessary to:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 400 parts per million and
the suspended solids to 450 parts per million by weight; or
      (2)   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within the
maximum limits provided for in §
51.061; or
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of those waters or
wastes.
   (B)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the Superintendent and of the State Board of Health, and no construction of
those facilities shall be commenced until approval is obtained in writing.
('71 Code, § 51.12(A)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.064 PRETREATMENT; EQUALIZATION OF WASTE FLOWS. 
   (A)   If any water or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged
to the public sewers and such waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
51.062 and can be shown to have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works,
processes, equipment or receiving waters or which otherwise create a hazard to
life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Require pretreatment to comply with federal standards for discharge
to the public sewers, and require the submission of semi-annual notices of
progress toward compliance with the pretreatment standards;
      (2)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
      (3)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
51.069.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plans and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
('71 Code, § 51.10(D)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 5-76, passed 7-12-
76)
Cross-reference:
   Pretreatment Ordinance, see §
51.070
§ 51.065 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Inspector, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand
and other harmful ingredients; except that those interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (B)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
material capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped with easily
removable covers which when bolted in place shall be gastight and watertight.
   (C)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his expense, in a continuously efficient operation
at all times.
('71 Code, § 51.11) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.066 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his own expense.
('71 Code, § 51.12(B)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65)
§ 51.067 CONTROL MANHOLES.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property served by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense,
and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
('71 Code, § 51.12(C)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.068 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   (A)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater,” published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at that control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls where pH's are determined from periodic grab
samples.
   (B)   (1)   Those industries determined to be major contributors as defined
in the City's National Pollution Discharge Elimination System permit will be
required to self monitor their effluents for the parameters and at the
frequencies approved by the State Board of Health, Division of Industrial
Wastes. The monitoring information will be submitted to the city on a monthly
basis for inclusion in the city's quarterly industrial waste monitoring report
to the state.
      (2)   A major contributing industry is one that has a flow of 50,000
gallons or more per average workday; has a flow greater than 5% of the flow
carried by the municipal system receiving the waste; has in its waste a toxic
pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in standards issued under Section 307(a)
of the 1972 Federal Water Quality Act; or has significant impact, either singly
or in combination with other contributing industries, on the treatment works or
the quality of its effluent.
('71 Code, § 51.13) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 5-76, passed 7-12-76)
§ 51.069 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; SPECIAL AGREEMENT. 
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefore by the industrial concern.
('71 Code, § 51.14) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65)
PRETREATMENT OF SEWAGE
§ 51.070 PRETREATMENT ORDINANCE.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION 1—GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
1.1   Purpose and Policy
   
1.2   Administration
   
1.3   Abbreviations
   
1.4   Definitions
SECTION 2—GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
   
2.1   Prohibited Discharge Standards
   
2.2   National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
   
2.3   State Pretreatment Standards
   
2.4   Local Limits
   
2.5   City's Right of Revision
   
2.6   Dilution
SECTION 3—PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER
   
3.1   Pretreatment Facilities
   
3.2   Additional Pretreatment Measures
   
3.3   Accidental Discharge/Slug Discharge Control Plans
   
3.4   Hauled Wastewater
SECTION 4—INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS
   
4.1   Wastewater Analysis
   
4.2   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Requirement
   
4.3   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permitting: Existing Connections
   
4.4   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permitting: New Connections
   
4.5   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Application Contents
   
4.6   Application Signatories and Certifications
   
4.7   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Decisions
SECTION 5—INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE
   
5.1   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Duration
   
5.2   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Contents
   
5.3   Permit Modification
   
5.4   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Transfer
   
5.5   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Revocation
   
5.6   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Reissuance
   
5.7   Regulation of Waste Received from Other Jurisdictions
SECTION 6—REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
   
6.1   Baseline Monitoring Reports
   
6.2   Compliance Schedule Progress Reports
   
6.3   Reports on Compliance with Categorical Pretreatment Standard Deadline
   
6.4   Periodic Compliance Reports
   
6.5   Reports of Changed Conditions
   
6.6   Reports of Potential Problems
   
6.7   Reports from Unpermitted Users
   
6.8   Notice of Violation/Repeat Sampling and Reporting
   
6.9   Notification of the Discharge of Hazardous Waste
   
6.10   Analytical Requirements
   
6.11   Sample Collection
   
6.12   Date of Receipt of Reports
   
6.13   Recordkeeping
   
6.14   Certification Statements
SECTION 7—COMPLIANCE MONITORING
   
7.1   Right of Entry: Inspection and Sampling
   
7.2   Search Warrants
SECTION 8—CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
SECTION 9—PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE
SECTION 10—ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
   
10.1   Informal Notice (IN)
   
10.2   Notification of Violation (NOV)
   
10.3   Administrative Order (AO)
   
10.4   Compliance Schedule (CS)
   
10.5   Show Cause Hearing (SCH)
   
10.6   Administrative Fines (AF)
   
10.7   Emergency Suspensions
   
10.8   Termination of Service (TS)
   
10.9   Cost Recovery (CR)
   
10.10   Judicial Action (JA)
SECTION 11—JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
   
11.1   Injunctive Relief
   
11.2   Civil Penalties
   
11.3   Criminal Prosecution
   
11.4   Remedies Nonexclusive
SECTION 12—SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION
   
12.1   Penalties for Late Reports
   
12.2   Performance Bonds
   
12.3   Liability Insurance
   
12.4   Payment of Outstanding Fees and Penalties
   
12.5   Water Supply Severance
SECTION 13—AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
   
13.1   Upset
   
13.2   Prohibited Discharge Standards
   
13.3   Bypass
SECTION 14—WASTEWATER TREATMENT RATES - [RESERVED]
SECTION 15—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
   
15.1   Pretreatment Charges and Fees
   
15.2   Severability
SECTION 16—EFFECTIVE DATE
SECTION 1—GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.1   Purpose and Policy
This ordinance sets forth uniform requirements for Users of the Publicly Owned
Treatment Works for the City of Vincennes and enables the City to comply with
all applicable State and Federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 United
States Code [U.S.C.] section 1251 et seq.) and the General Pretreatment
Regulations (Title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations [CFR] Part 403). The
objectives of this ordinance are:
   A.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the Publicly Owned
Treatment Works that will interfere with its operation;
   B.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the Publicly Owned
Treatment Works that will pass through the Publicly Owned Treatment Works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with
the Publicly Owned Treatment Works;
   C.   To protect both Publicly Owned Treatment Works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
   D.   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge from
the Publicly Owned Treatment Works;
   E.   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance, and improvement of the Publicly Owned Treatment Works;
and
   F.   To enable the City to comply with its National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and
any other Federal or State laws to which the Publicly Owned Treatment Works is
subject.
This ordinance shall apply to all Users of the Publicly Owned Treatment Works.
The ordinance authorizes the issuance of individual wastewater discharge
permits; provides for monitoring, compliance, and enforcement activities;
establishes administrative review procedures; requires User reporting; and
provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs
resulting from the program established herein.
1.2   Administration
Except as otherwise provided herein, the Superintendent shall administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this ordinance. Any powers granted to
or duties imposed upon the Superintendent may be delegated by the
Superintendent to a duly authorized City employee.
1.3   Abbreviations
The following abbreviations, when used in this ordinance, shall have the
designated meanings:
   BOD — Biochemical Oxygen Demand
   BMP — Best Management Practice
   BMR —Baseline Monitoring Report
   CFR — Code of Federal Regulations
   CIU — Categorical Industrial User
   COD — Chemical Oxygen Demand
   EPA — U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
   gpd — gallons per day
   IU- Industrial User
   l — liter
   mg — milligram
   mg/l — milligrams per liter
   NPDES — National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
   NSCIU — Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User
   POTW — Publicly Owned Treatment Works
   RCRA — Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
   SIC — Standard Industrial Classification
   SIU — Significant Industrial User
   SNC — Significant Noncompliance
   TSS — Total Suspended Solids
   U.S.C. — United States Code
1.4   Definitions
Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the following terms and
phrases, as used in this ordinance, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated.
   A.   Act or "the Act." The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known
as the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. section 1251 et seq.
   B.   Approval Authority. The Regional Administrator of U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency.
   C.   Authorized or Duly Authorized Representative of the User.
      (1)   If the User is a corporation;
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operating facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance witn environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for individual wastewater discharge permit
requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or
delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the User is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the User is a Federal, State, or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in paragraphs 1 through 3, above, may
designate a Duly Authorized Representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the City.
   D.   Biochemical Oxygen Demand or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedures for five (5) days at 20 degrees centigrade, usually expressed as a
concentration (e.g., mg/l).
   E.   Best Management Practices or BMPs means schedules of activities,
prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and other management
practices to implement the prohibitions listed in Section
2.1 A and B [40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b)]. BMPs include treatment requirements,
operating procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or
leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage.
   F.   Categorical Pretreatment Standard or Categorical Standard. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. section 1317)
that apply to a specific category of Users and that appear in 40 CFR Chapter I,
Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
   G.   Categorical Industrial User. An Industrial User subject to a
categorical Pretreatment Standard or categorical Standard.
   H.   City. The City of Vincennes, Vincennes, or the City Council of
Vincennes.
   I.   Chemical Oxygen Demand or COD. A measure of the oxygen required to
oxidize all compounds, both organic and inorganic, in water.
   J.   Composite Sample. Type of sample taken pursuant to 40 CFR Section 403
Appendix E.
   K.   Control Authority. The City.
   L.   Daily Maximum. The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
pollutant collected during a calendar day.
   M.   Daily Maximum Limit. The maximum allowable discharge limit of a
pollutant during a calendar day. Where Daily Maximum Limits are expressed in
units of mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course
of the day. Where Daily Maximum Limits are expressed in terms of a
concentration, the daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the
pollutant concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
   N.   Environmental Protection Agency or EPA. The U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water Management Division
Director, the Regional Administrator, or other duly authorized official of said
agency.
   O.   Existing Source. Any source of discharge that is not a "New Source."
   P.   Grab Sample. A sample that is taken from a waste stream without regard
to the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time not to exceed fifteen
(15) minutes.
   Q.   Indirect Discharge or Discharge. The introduction of pollutants into
the POTW from any nondomestic source.
   R.   Industrial User. Any person or user who introduces pollutants into a
POTW from any non-domestic source regulated under the Act, State Law, or Local
Ordinance.
   S.   Instantaneous Limit. The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed
to be discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or
composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the
duration of the sampling event
   T.   Interference. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, does one (1) of the following:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, its sludge processes, or its selected sludge use or disposal
methods.
      (2)   Causes a violation of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES permit,
including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
      (3)   Prevents the use of the POTW's sewage sludge or its sludge disposal
method selected in compliance with the following statutory provisions,
regulations, or permits issued thereunder or more stringent state or local
regulations:
         (a)   Section 405 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1345).
         (b)   The Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. 6901), including:
            (i)   Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); and
            (ii)   the rules contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA (42 U.S.C. 6941).
         (c)   The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401).
         (d)   The Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2601).
   U.   Local Limit. Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the
City upon industrial or commercial facilities to implement the general and
specific discharge prohibitions listed in 40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
   V.   Medical Waste. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and
blood products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   W.   Monthly Average. The sum of all "daily discharges" measured during a
calendar month divided by the number of "daily discharges" measured during that
month.
   X.   Monthly Average Limit. The highest allowable average of "daily
discharges" over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all "daily
discharges" measured during a calendar month divided by the number of "daily
discharges" measured during that month.
   Y.   National Categorical Pretreatment Standard or Categorical Pretreatment
Standard. Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by
the EPA in accordance with Section 307 (b) and (c) of the Act (33 USC 1317),
which applies to a specific category of Industrial Users.
   Z.   New Source.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed Pretreatment Standards under section 307(c)
of the Act that will be applicable to such source if such Standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located; or
         (b)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an Existing Source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an Existing Source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the Existing Source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an Existing Source is located
results in a modification rather than a New Source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of Section (l)(b) or (c) above but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds
to existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a New Source as defined under this paragraph has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite
construction program
            (i)   any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            (ii)   significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source
facilities or equipment; or
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this paragraph.
   AA.   Noncontact Cooling Water. Water used for cooling that does not come
into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product,
or finished product.
   BB.   NPDES or Nation Pollutant Discharge Elimination System. A permit
issued pursuant to Section 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act.
   CC.   Pass Through. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the
United States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction
with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of
any requirement of the City's NPDES permit, including an increase in the
magnitude or duration of a violation.
   DD.   Person. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns. This definition includes all Federal, State, and local governmental
entities.
   EE.   pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
   FF.   Pollutant. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter
backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, Medical Wastes, chemical
wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
   GG.   Pretreatment. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants
into the POTW. This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical,
chemical, or biological processes; by process changes; or by other means,
except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an
applicable Pretreatment Standard.
   HH.   Pretreatment Requirements. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment imposed on a User, other than a Pretreatment Standard.
   II.   Pretreatment Standards or Standards. Pretreatment Standards shall mean
prohibited discharge standards, categorical Pretreatment Standards, and Local
Limits.
   JJ.   Prohibited Discharge Standards or Prohibited Discharges. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in Section
2.1 of this ordinance.
   KK.   Publicly Owned Treatment Works or POTW. A treatment works, as defined
by section 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. section 1292), which is owned by the City.
This definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection,
storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes
of a liquid nature and any conveyances, which convey wastewater to a treatment
plant.
   LL.   Septic Tank Waste. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels,
chemical toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
   MM.   Sewage. Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations, etc.).
   NN.   Significant Industrial User (SIU). Except as provided in paragraphs
(3) and (4) of this Section, a Significant Industrial User is:
      (1)   An Industrial User subject to categorical Pretreatment Standards;
or
      (2)   An Industrial User that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of twenty-five thousand (25,000) gpd or
more of process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling
and boiler blowdown wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up five (5)
percent or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the
POTW treatment plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by the City on the basis that it has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for
violating any Pretreatment Standard or Requirement.
   OO.   Slug Load or Slug Discharge. Any discharge at a flow rate or
concentration, which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge
standards in Section
2.1 of this ordinance. A Slug Discharge is any Discharge of a non-routine,
episodic nature, including but not limited to an accidental spill or a non-
customary batch Discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause
Interference or Pass Through, or in any other way violate the POTW's
regulations, Local Limits or Permit conditions.
   PP.   State. The State of Indiana.
   QQ.   Storm Water. Any flow occurring during or following any form of
natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including
snowmelt.
   RR.   Superintendent. The person designated by the City to supervise the
operation of the POTW, and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by this ordinance. The term also means a Duly Authorized
Representative of the Superintendent.
   SS.   Total Suspended Solids or Suspended Solids. The total suspended matter
that floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other
liquid, and that is removable by laboratory filtering.
   TT.   User or Industrial User. A source of indirect discharge.
   UU.   Wastewater. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   VV.   Wastewater Treatment Plant or Treatment Plant. That portion of the
POTW which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial
waste.
SECTION 2—GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
2.1   Prohibited Discharge Standards
   A.   General Prohibitions. No User shall introduce or cause to be introduced
into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes Pass Through or
Interference. These general prohibitions apply to all Users of the POTW whether
or not they are subject to categorical Pretreatment Standards or any other
National, State, or local Pretreatment Standards or Requirements.
   B.   Specific Prohibitions. No User shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wasn't with a closed-cup flashpoint of less than
140 degrees F (60 degrees C) using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
      (2)   Wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or more than 9.0, or otherwise
causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in Interference but in no case solids greater
than one-half inch (0.5") or one and three-tenths centimeters (1.3 cm) in any
dimension;
      (4)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause Interference
with the POTW;
      (5)   Wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the treatment plant resulting in Interference, but in no case
wastewater which causes the temperature at the introduction into the treatment
plant to exceed 104 degrees F (40 degrees C);
      (6)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause Interference or Pass Through;
      (7)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the Superintendent in accordance with Section
3.4 of this ordinance;
      (9)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
      (10)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant's
effluent, thereby violating the City's NPDES permit;
      (11)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with applicable State or Federal regulations;
      (12)   Storm Water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, Noncontact Cooling Water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the Superintendent;
      (13)   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (14)   Medical Wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Superintendent in an individual wastewater discharge permit;
      (15)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant's effluent to fail toxicity test;
      (16)   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which that
might cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
      (17)   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100mg/l;
Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this Section shall not be
processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to the POTW.
2.2   National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
Users must comply with the categorical Pretreatment Standards found at 40 CFR
Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405–171.
   A.   Where a categorical Pretreatment Standard is expressed only in terms of
either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
Superintendent may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance
with Section
2.2E and
2.2F.
   B.   When the limits in a categorical Pretreatment Standard are expressed
only in terms of mass of pollutant per unit of production, the Superintendent
may convert the limits to equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of
pollutant discharged per day or effluent concentration for purposes of
calculating effluent limitations applicable to individual Industrial Users.
   C.   When wastewater subject to a categorical Pretreatment Standard is mixed
with wastewater not regulated by the same Standard, the Superintendent shall
impose an alternate limit in accordance with 40 CFR 403.6(e).
   D.   A CIU may obtain a net/gross adjustment to a categorical Pretreatment
Standard in accordance with the following paragraphs of this Section.
      (1)   Categorical Pretreatment Standards may be adjusted to reflect the
presence of pollutants in the Industrial User's intake water in accordance with
this Section. Any Industrial User wishing to obtain credit for intake
pollutants must make application to the City. Upon request of the Industrial
User, the applicable Standard will be calculated on a "net" basis (i.e.,
adjusted to reflect credit for pollutants in the intake water) if the
requirements of paragraph (2) of this Section are met.
      (2)   Criteria.
         (a)   Either (i) The applicable categorical Pretreatment Standards
contained in 40 CFR subchapter N specifically provide that they shall be
applied on a net basis; or (ii) The Industrial User demonstrates that the
control system it proposes or uses to meet applicable categorical Pretreatment
Standards would, if properly installed and operated, meet the Standards in the
absence of pollutants in the intake waters.
         (b)   Credit for generic pollutants such as biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD), total suspended solids (TSS), and oil and grease should not be granted
unless the Industrial User demonstrates that the constituents of the generic
measure in the User's effluent are substantially similar to the constituents of
the generic measure in the intake water or unless appropriate additional limits
are placed on process water pollutants either at the outfall or elsewhere.
         (c)   Credit shall be granted only to the extent necessary to meet the
applicable categorical Pretreatment Standard(s), up to a maximum value equal to
the influent value. Additional monitoring may be necessary to determine
eligibility for credits and compliance with Standard(s) adjusted under this
Section.
         (d)   Credit shall be granted only if the User demonstrates that the
intake water is drawn from the same body of water as that into which the POTW
discharges. The City may waive this requirement if it finds that no
environmental degradation will result.
   E.   When a categorical Pretreatment Standard is expressed only in terms of
pollutant concentrations, an Industrial User may request that the City convert
the limits to equivalent mass limits. The determination to convert
concentration limits to mass limits is within the discretion of the
Superintendent. The City may establish equivalent mass limits only if the
Industrial User meets all the conditions set forth in Sections
2.2E(1)(a) through
2.2E(1)(e) below.
      (1)   To be eligible for equivalent mass limits, the Industrial User
must:
         (a)   Employ, or demonstrate that it will employ, water conservation
methods and technologies that substantially reduce water use during the term of
its individual wastewater discharge permit;
         (b)   Currently use control and treatment technologies adequate to
achieve compliance with the applicable categorical Pretreatment Standard, and
not have used dilution as a substitute for treatment;
         (c)   Provide sufficient information to establish the facility's
actual average daily flow rate for all wastestreams, based on data from a
continuous effluent flow monitoring device, as well as the facility's long-term
average production rate. Both the actual average daily flow rate and the long-
term average production rate must be representative of current operating
conditions;
         (d)   Not have daily flow rates, production levels, or pollutant
levels that vary so significantly that equivalent mass limits are not
appropriate to control the Discharge; and
         (e)   Have consistently complied with all applicable categorical
Pretreatment Standards during the period prior to the Industrial User's request
for equivalent mass limits.
      (2)   An Industrial User subject to equivalent mass limits must:
         (a)   Maintain and effectively operate control and treatment
technologies adequate to achieve compliance with the equivalent mass limits;
         (b)   Continue to record the facility's flow rates through the use of
a continuous effluent flow monitoring device;
         (c)   Continue to record the facility's production rates and notify
the Superintendent whenever production rates are expected to vary by more than
20 percent from its baseline production rates determined in paragraph
2.2F(l)(c) of this Section. Upon notification of a revised production rate, the
Superintendent will reassess the equivalent mass limit and revise the limit as
necessary to reflect changed conditions at the facility; and
         (d)   Continue to employ the same or comparable water conservation
methods and technologies as those implemented pursuant to paragraphs
2.2E(l)(a) of this Section so long as it discharges under an equivalent mass
limit.
      (3)   When developing equivalent mass limits, the Superintendent:
         (a)   Will calculate the equivalent mass limit by multiplying the
actual average daily flow rate of the regulated process(es) of the Industrial
User by the concentration-based Daily Maximum and Monthly Average Standard for
the applicable categorical Pretreatment Standard and the appropriate unit
conversion factor;
         (b)   Upon notification of a revised production rate, will reassess
the equivalent mass limit and recalculate the limit as necessary to reflect
changed conditions at the facility; and
         (c)   May retain the same equivalent mass limit in subsequent
individual wastewater discharger permit terms if the Industrial User's actual
average daily flow rate was reduced solely as a result of the implementation of
water conservation methods and technologies, and the actual average daily flow
rates used in the original calculation of the equivalent mass limit were not
based on the use of dilution as a substitute for treatment pursuant to Section
2.6. The Industrial User must also be in compliance with Section
13.3 regarding the prohibition of bypass.
   F.   The Superintendent may convert the mass limits of the categorical
Pretreatment Standards of 40 CFR Parts 414, 419, and 455 to concentration
limits for purposes of calculating limitations applicable to individual
Industrial Users. The conversion is at the discretion of the Superintendent.
   G.   Once included in its permit, the Industrial User must comply with the
equivalent limitations developed in this Section (
2.2) in lieu of the promulgated categorical Standards from which the equivalent
limitations were derived.
   H.   Many categorical Pretreatment Standards specify one limit for
calculating maximum daily discharge limitations and a second limit for
calculating maximum Monthly Average, or 4-day average, limitations. Where such
Standards are being applied, the same production or flow figure shall be used
in calculating both the average and the maximum equivalent limitation.
   I.   Any Industrial User operating under a permit incorporating equivalent
mass or concentration limits calculated from a production-based Standard shall
notify the Superintendent within two (2) business days after the User has a
reasonable basis to know that the production level will significantly change
within the next calendar month. Any User not notifying the Superintendent of
such anticipated change will be required to meet the mass or concentration
limits in its permit that were based on the original estimate of the long term
average production rate.
2.3   State Pretreatment Standards
Users must comply with the State of Indiana Administrative Code codified at 327
IAC 5 Industrial Wastewater Pretreatment Programs and NPDES.
2.4   Local Limits
   A.   The Superintendent is authorized to establish Local Limits pursuant to
40 CFR 403.5(c).
   B.   The following pollutant limits are established to protect against Pass
Through and Interference. No person shall discharge wastewater containing in
excess of the following:
      0.17      mg/l cadmium
      4.47      mg/l chromium
      0.72      mg/l copper
      4.90      mg/l cyanide
      1.07      mg/l lead
      0.00053   mg/l mercury
      4.85      mg/l nickel
      0.37      mg/L silver
      100      mg/l oil and/or grease
      6.30      mg/l zinc
   The Superintendent may impose mass limitations in addition to the
concentration-based limitations above.
   C.   The following pollutant surcharges limits are established to ensure
just and equitable rates and charges with respect to the services rendered by
the POTW:
         400      mg/l surcharge limit for CBOD5
         450      mg/l surcharge limit for total suspended solids (TSS)
   The surcharge rates are outlined in the POTW's Sewer Use Ordinance.
Exceeding the surcharge limit alone shall not be considered a violation of this
ordinance.
   Mass-based upper limits for CBOD5, TSS, and ammonia to maintain proper plant
operations will be established in individual IU permits. The Superintendent
shall be responsible for establishing these upper limits to ensure no adverse
effect on the POTW. The total allocation of the pollutants shall not exceed the
calculated Maximum Allowable Industrial Load.
   D.   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is discharged
to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for total metal
unless indicated otherwise. Individual limits may be necessary when required by
Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards or as established through an
individual Industrial User Permit, issued by the Superintendent. Alternative
limits may be granted to an Industrial User by issuance of an Industrial User
Permit, provided the Superintendent has determined that no adverse effect on
the POTW will occur from the alternative limits and the IU can justify to the
Superintendent's satisfaction that the above limit cannot reasonably be
achieved. Deviations from the above limits may be authorized by the
Superintendent at his sole discretion, upon an affirmative showing by the
requesting IU that such deviation will not be harmful to the POTW.
   E.   The Superintendent may develop Best Management Practices (BMPs), by
ordinance or in individual wastewater discharge permits, to implement Local
Limits and the requirements of Section
2.1.
2.5   City’s Right of Revision
The City reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in individual
wastewater discharge permits, more stringent Standards or Requirements on
discharges to the POTW consistent with the purpose of this ordinance.
2.6   Dilution
No User shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt to
dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment
to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless expressly authorized
by an applicable Pretreatment Standard or Requirement. The Superintendent may
impose mass limitations on Users who are using dilution to meet applicable
Pretreatment Standards or Requirements, or in other cases when the imposition
of mass limitations is appropriate.
SECTION 3—PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER
3.1   Pretreatment Facilities
Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply with this
ordinance and shall achieve compliance with all categorical Pretreatment
Standards, Local Limits, and the prohibitions set out in Section
2.1 of this ordinance within the time limitations specified by EPA, the State,
or the Superintendent, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary
for compliance shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the User's
expense. Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating procedures
shall be submitted to the Superintendent for review, and shall be acceptable to
the Superintendent before such facilities are constructed. The review of such
plans and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the User from the
responsibility of modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge
acceptable to the City under the provisions of this ordinance. Any Subsequent
changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported
to and approved by the Superintendent prior to the industrial user's initiation
of the changes.
3.2   Additional Pretreatment Measures
   A.   Whenever deemed necessary, the Superintendent may require Users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial waste
streams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and
determine the User's compliance with the requirements of this ordinance.
   B.   The Superintendent may require any person discharging into the POTW to
install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. An individual
wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
   C.   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall
be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired by the User at their
expense.
   D.   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
3.3   Accidental Discharge/Slug Discharge Control Plans
The Superintendent shall evaluate whether each SIU needs an accidental
discharge/slug discharge control plan or other action to control Slug
Discharges. The Superintendent may require any User to develop, submit for
approval, and implement such a plan or take such other action that may be
necessary to control Slug Discharges. Alternatively, the Superintendent may
develop such a plan for any User. Spill prevention plans, including the
facilities and the operating procedures, shall be approved by the
Superintendent before construction of the facility. Users that store hazardous
substances shall not discharge to POTW after the effective date of this
ordinance unless a spill prevention plan has been approved by the
Superintendent. Approval of such plans shall not relieve the User from
complying with all other laws and regulations governing the use, storage and
transportation of hazardous substances. An accidental discharge/slug discharge
control plan shall address, at a minimum, the following:
   A.   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
   B.   Description of stored chemicals;
   C.   Procedures for immediately notifying the Superintendent of any
accidental or Slug Discharge, as required by Section
6.6 of this ordinance; and
   D.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or Slug
Discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
3.4   Hauled Wastewater
   A.   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the Superintendent, and at such times as are established by the
Superintendent. Such waste shall not violate
Section 2 of this ordinance or the most recent version of the City's adopted
Septage Receiving Ordinance.
SECTION 4—INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS
4.1   Wastewater Analysis
When requested by the Superintendent, a User must submit information on the
nature and characteristics of its wastewater within fifteen (15) days of the
request. The Superintendent is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose
and may periodically require Users to update this information.
4.2   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Requirement
   A.   No Significant Industrial User shall discharge wastewater into the POTW
without first obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit from the
Superintendent, except that a Significant Industrial User that has filed a
timely application pursuant to Section
4.3 of this ordinance may continue to discharge for the time period specified
therein.
   B.   The Superintendent may require other Users to obtain individual
wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this
ordinance.
   C.   Any violation of the terms and conditions of an individual wastewater
discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this ordinance and subjects the
wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in
Sections 10 through
12 of this ordinance. Obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit does
not relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all Federal and State
Pretreatment Standards or Requirements or with any other requirements of
Federal, State, and local law.
4.3   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permitting; Existing Connections
Any User required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who was
discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this
ordinance and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall,
within thirty (30) days after said date, apply to the Superintendent for an
individual wastewater discharge permit in accordance with Section
4.5 of this ordinance, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to
continue after one hundred eighty (180) days of the effective date of this
ordinance except in accordance with an individual wastewater discharge permit
issued by the Superintendent.
4.4   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permitting: New Connections
Any User required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who
proposes to begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such
permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge. An application
for this individual wastewater discharge permit, in accordance with Section
4.5 of this ordinance, must be filed at least ninety (90) days prior to the
date upon which any discharge will begin or recommence.
4.5   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Application Contents
   A.   All Users required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit
must submit a permit application. Users that are eligible may request a general
permit under Section
4.6. The Superintendent may require Users to submit all or some of the
following information as part of a permit application:
      (1)   Identifying Information.
         (a)   The name and address of the facility, including the name of the
operator and owner.
         (b)   Contact information, description of activities, facilities, and
plant production processes on the premises, including all materials which are
or could be discharged;
      (2)   Environmental Permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      (3)   Description of Operations.
         (a)   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production
(including each product produced by type, amount, processes, and rate of
production), and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s)
carried out by such User. This description should include a schematic process
diagram, which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated
processes.
         (b)   Types of wastes generated, and a list of all raw materials and
chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally or
intentionally be, discharged to the POTW;
         (c)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed
or actual hours of operation;
         (d)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
         (e)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and
details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location,
and elevation, and all points of discharge;
      (4)   Time and duration of discharges;
      (5)   The location for monitoring all wastes covered by the permit;
      (6)   Flow Measurement Information showing the measured average daily and
maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in Section
2.2C (40 CFR 403.6(e)).
      (7)   Measurement of Pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical Pretreatment Standards applicable to each
regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for Existing
Sources.
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the Standard or by the
Superintendent, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process.
         (c)   Instantaneous, Daily Maximum, and long-term average
concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported.
         (d)   The sample shall be representative of daily operations and shall
be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in Section
6.10 of this ordinance. Where the Standard requires compliance with a BMP or
pollution prevention alternative, the User shall submit documentation as
required by the Superintendent or the applicable Standards to determine
compliance with the Standard.
         (e)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in Section
6.11 of this ordinance.
      (9)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the
Superintendent to evaluate the permit application.
   B.   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will be
returned to the User for revision.
4.6   Application Signatories and Certifications
   A.   All wastewater discharge permit applications, User reports and
certification statements must be signed by an Authorized Representative of the
User and contain the certification statement in Section
6.14 A.
   B.   If the designation of an Authorized Representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying the
requirements of this Section must be submitted to the Superintendent prior to
or together with any reports to be signed by an Authorized Representative.
4.7   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Decisions
The Superintendent will evaluate the data furnished by the User and may require
additional information. Within forty five (45) days of receipt of a complete
permit application, the Superintendent will determine whether to issue an
individual wastewater discharge permit. The Superintendent may deny any
application for an individual wastewater discharge permit.
SECTION 5—INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE
5.1   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Duration
An individual wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified time
period, not to exceed five (5) years from the effective date of the permit. An
individual wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a period less than
five (5) years, at the discretion of the Superintendent. Each individual
wastewater discharge permit will indicate a specific date upon which it will
expire.
5.2   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Contents
An individual wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as are
deemed reasonably necessary by the Superintendent to prevent Pass Through or
Interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant's effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
   A.   Individual wastewater discharge permits must contain:
      (1)   A statement that indicates the wastewater discharge permit issuance
date, expiration date and effective date;
      (2)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to the City in accordance with Section
5.5 of this ordinance, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator
with a copy of the existing wastewater discharge permit;
      (3)   Effluent limits, including Best Management Practices, based on
applicable Pretreatment Standards;
      (4)   Self monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants (or best management practice) to be monitored, sampling location,
sampling frequency, and sample type based on Federal, State, and local law.
      (5)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of Pretreatment Standards and Requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable Federal, State, or local law.
      (6)   Requirements to control Slug Discharge, if determined by the
Superintendent to be necessary.
   B.   Individual wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be
limited to, the fohowing conditions:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
      (3)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or nonroutine
discharges;
      (4)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      (5)   The unit charge or schedule of User charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment, including flow measurement devices;
      (7)   A statement that compliance with the individual wastewater
discharge permit does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for
compliance with all applicable Federal and State Pretreatment Standards,
including those which become effective during the term of the individual
wastewater discharge permit;
      (8)   Compliance schedules;
      (9)   Requirements for submission of technical reports, discharge reports
or certification statement. These include any reporting requirements contained
in the National Categorical Standard or Pretreatment Requirement;
      (10)   Requirements for collecting/retaining and providing access to
plant records relating to the user's discharge and for providing entry for
sampling and inspection;
      (11)   Requirements for notification of any new introduction of
wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the wastewater treatment system;
      (12)   Conditions for modification or revocation of permit; and
      (13)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Superintendent to
ensure compliance with this ordinance, and State and Federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
5.3   Permit Modification
   A.   The Superintendent may modify an individual wastewater discharge permit
for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   To incorporate any new or revised Federal, State, or local
Pretreatment Standards or Requirements;
      (2)   To address significant alterations or additions to the User's
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
mdividual wastewater discharge permit issuance;
      (3)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      (4)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the City's POTW, City personnel, or the receiving waters;
      (5)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the individual wastewater
discharge permit;
      (6)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
      (7)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical Pretreatment
Standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.13;
      (8)   To correct typographical or other errors in the individual
wastewater discharge permit; or
      (9)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a
new owner or operator where requested in accordance with Section
5.5.
5.4   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Transfer
Individual wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new owner or
operator only if the permittee gives at least thirty (30) days advance notice
to the Superintendent and the Superintendent approves the individual wastewater
discharge permit transfer. The notice to the Superintendent must include a
written certification by the new owner or operator which:
   A.   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent to
change the facility's operations and processes;
   B.   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
   C.   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
individual wastewater discharge permit.
Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the individual
wastewater discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer.
5.5   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Revocation
The Superintendent may revoke an individual wastewater discharge permit for
good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   A.   Failure to notify the Superintendent of significant changes to the
wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
   B.   Failure to provide prior notification to the Superintendent of changed
conditions pursuant to Section
6.5 of this ordinance;
   C.   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application;
   D.   Falsifying self-monitoring reports and certification statements;
   E.   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
   F.   Refusing to allow the Superintendent timely access to the facility
premises and records;
   G.   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
   H.   Failure to pay fines;
   I.   Failure to pay sewer charges;
   J.   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
   K.   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater discharge
permit application;
   L.   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business ownership
of a permitted facility; or
   M.   Violation of any Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, or any terms of
the wastewater discharge permit or this ordinance.
Individual wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon cessation of
operations or transfer of business ownership. All individual wastewater
discharge permits issued to a User are void upon the issuance of a new
individual wastewater discharge permit to that User.
5.6   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Reissuance
A User with an expiring individual wastewater discharge permit shall apply for
individual wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete
permit application, in accordance with Section
4.5 of this ordinance, a minimum of one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the
expiration of the User's existing individual wastewater discharge permit.
5.7   Regulation of Waste Received from Other Jurisdictions
   A.   If another municipality, or User located within another municipality,
contributes wastewater to the POTW, the Superintendent shall enter into an
intermunicipal agreement with the contributing municipality.
   B.   Prior to entering into an agreement required by paragraph A, above, the
Superintendent shall request the following information from the contributing
municipality:
      (1)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged to
the POTW by the contributing municipality;
      (2)   An inventory of all Users located within the contributing
municipality that are discharging to the POTW; and
      (3)   Such other information as the Superintendent may deem necessary.
   C.   An intermunicipal agreement, as required by paragraph A, above, shall
contain the following conditions:
      (1)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to adopt a sewer
use ordinance which is at least as stringent as this ordinance and Local
Limits, including required Baseline Monitoring Reports (BMRs) which are at
least as stringent as those set out in Section
2.4 of this ordinance. The requirement shall specify that such ordinance and
limits must be revised as necessary to reflect changes made to the City's
ordinance or Local Limits;
      (2)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a revised
User inventory on at least an annual basis;
      (3)   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including individual wastewater discharge permit issuance,
inspection and sampling, and enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing
municipality; which of these activities will be conducted by the
Superintendent; and which of these activities will be conducted jointly by the
contributing municipality and the Superintendent;
      (4)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide the
Superintendent with access to all information that the contributing
municipality obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
      (5)   Limits on the nature, quality, and volume of the contributing
municipality's wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
      (6)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality's
discharge;
      (7)   A provision ensuring the Superintendent access to the facilities of
Users located within the contributing municipality's jurisdictional boundaries
for the purpose of inspection, sampling, and any other duties deemed necessary
by the Superintendent; and
      (8)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms
of the intermunicipal agreement.
SECTION 6—REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
6.1   Baseline Monitoring Reports
   A.   Within either one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective date of
a categorical Pretreatment Standard, or the final administrative decision on a
category determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
Categorical Industrial Users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge
to the POTW shall submit to the Superintendent a report which contains the
information listed in paragraph B, below. At least ninety (90) days prior to
commencement of their discharge, New Sources, and sources that become
Categorical Industrial Users subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable
categorical Standard, shall submit to the Superintendent a report which
contains the information listed in paragraph B, below. A New Source shall
report the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable
categorical Standards. A New Source also shall give estimates of its
anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   B.   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      (1)   All information required in Section
4.5A (1) (a), Section
4.5A (2), Section
4.5A (3) (a), and Section
4.5A (6).
      (2)   Measurement of pollutants.
         a.   The User shall provide the information required in Section
4.5 A (7) (a) through (d).
         b.   The User shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this paragraph.
         c.   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment the User should measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined wastestream formula in 40
CFR 403.6(e) to evaluate compliance with the Pretreatment Standards. Where an
alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated in accordance with 40
CFR 403.6(e) this adjusted limit along with supporting data shall be submitted
to the Control Authority;
         d.   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with
Section
6.10;
         e.   The Superintendent may allow the submission of a baseline report
which utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides information
sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment measures;
         f.   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place of
sampling and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
Discharges to the POTW.
      (3)   Compliance Certification. A statement, reviewed by the User's
Authorized Representative as defined in Section
1.4 C and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
Pretreatment Standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the Pretreatment Standards, and Requirements.
      (4)   Compliance Schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the Pretreatment Standards, the shortest schedule by which the
User will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M must be provided. The
completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date
established for the applicable Pretreatment Standard. A compliance schedule
pursuant to this Section must meet the requirements set out in Section
6.2 of this ordinance.
      (5)   Signature and Report Certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be certified in accordance with Section
6.14 A of this ordinance and signed by an Authorized Representative as defined
in Section
1.4C.
6.2   Compliance Schedule Progress Reports
The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
Section
6.1(B)(4) of this ordinance:
   A.   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates for
the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction and
operation of additional pretreatment required for the User to meet the
applicable Pretreatment Standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
   B.   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine (9) months;
   C.   The User shall submit a progress report to the Superintendent no later
than fourteen (14) days following each date in the schedule and the final date
of compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the User to return to the established schedule; and
   D.   In no event shall more than nine (9) months elapse between such
progress reports to the Superintendent.
6.3   Reports on Compliance with Categorical Pretreatment Standard Deadline
Within ninety (90) days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical Pretreatment Standards, or in the case of a New Source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any User subject
to such Pretreatment Standards and Requirements shall submit to the
Superintendent a report containing the information described in Section
4.5A(6) and (7) and
6.1(B)(2) of this ordinance. For Users subject to equivalent mass or
concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in Section
2.2, this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the User's long-term
production rate. For all other Users subject to categorical Pretreatment
Standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
User's actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with Section
6.14 A of this ordinance. All sampling will be done in conformance with Section
6.11.
6.4   Periodic Compliance Reports
All Users must, at a frequency determined by the Superintendent, submit no less
than twice per year (June and December) reports indicating the nature,
concentration of pollutants in the discharge which are limited by Pretreatment
Standards and the measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the
reporting period. In cases where the Pretreatment Standard requires compliance
with a Best Management Practice (BMP) or pollution prevention alternative, the
User must submit documentation required by the Superintendent or the
Pretreatment Standard necessary to determine the compliance status of the User.
If a User subject to the reporting requirement in this section monitors any
regulated pollutant at the appropriate sampling location more frequently than
required using the procedures prescribed in Section
6.11 of this ordinance, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the
report.
6.5   Reports of Changed Conditions
Each User must notify the Superintendent of any significant changes to the
User's operations or system which might alter the nature, quality, or volume of
its wastewater at least fifteen (15) days before the change.
   A.   The Superintendent may require the User to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under Section
4.5 of this ordinance.
   B.   The Superintendent may issue an individual wastewater discharge permit
under Section
5.7 of this ordinance or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under
Section
5.4 of this ordinance in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed
conditions.
6.6   Reports of Potential Problems
   A.   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to, accidental
discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a noncustomary batch
discharge, a Slug Discharge or Slug Load, that might cause potential problems
for the POTW, the User shall immediately telephone and notify the
Superintendent of the incident. This notification shall include the location of
the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and
corrective actions taken by the User.
   B.   Within five (5) days following such discharge, the User shall, unless
waived by the Superintendent, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the User to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the User of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which might be incurred as a result
of damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the User of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this ordinance.
   C.   A notice shall be permanently posted on the User's bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in paragraph A, above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who could cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   D.   Significant Industrial Users are required to notify the Superintendent
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for a Slug
Discharge.
6.7   Reports from Unpermitted Users
All Users not required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit
shall provide appropriate reports to the Superintendent as the Superintendent
may require.
6.8   Notice of Violation/Repeat Sampling and Reporting
If sampling performed by a User indicates a violation, the User must notify the
Superintendent within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The User shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the Superintendent within thirty (30) days
after becoming aware of the violation. Resampling by the Industrial User is not
required if the City performs sampling at the User's facility at least once a
month, or if the City performs sampling at the User between the time when the
initial sampling was conducted and the time when the User or the City receives
the results of this sampling, or if the City has performed the sampling and
analysis in lieu of the Industrial User.
6.9   Notification of the Discharge of Hazardous Waste
   A.   Any User who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and State
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
CFR Part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste as
set forth in 40 CFR Part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of
discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the User discharges more than one
hundred (100) kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the
notification also shall contain the following information to the extent such
information is known and readily available to the User: an identification of
the hazardous constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass
and concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharged during
that calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the
wastestream expected to be discharged during the following twelve (12) months.
All notifications must take place no later than one hundred and eighty (180)
days after the discharge commences. Any notification under this paragraph need
be submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharged. However,
notifications of changed conditions must be submitted under Section
6.5 of this ordinance. The notification requirement in this Section does not
apply to pollutants already reported by Users subject to categorical
Pretreatment Standards under the self-monitoring requirements of Sections
6.1,
6.3, and
6.4 of this ordinance.
   B.   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of paragraph A, above,
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than fifteen (15)
kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as
specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than fifteen
(15) kilograms of nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any
quantity of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33
(e), requires a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the User
discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require
additional notification.
   C.   In the case of any new regulations under section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the User must notify the
Superintendent, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and
State hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within
ninety (90) days of the effective date of such regulations.
   D.   In the case of any notification made under this Section, the User shall
certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity of
hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be economically
practical.
   E.   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this ordinance, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable Federal or State law.
6.10   Analytical Requirements
All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as part
of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed in
accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR Part 136 and amendments
thereto, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical Pretreatment
Standard. If 40 CFR Part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques
for the pollutant in question, or where the EPA determines that the Part 136
sampling and analytical techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in
question, sampling and analyses shall be performed by using validated
analytical methods or any other applicable sampling and analytical procedures,
including procedures suggested by the Superintendent or other parties approved
by EPA.
6.11   Sample Collection
Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements must be based on data
obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the period
covered by the report, based on data that is representative of conditions
occurring during the reporting period.
   A.   Except as indicated in Section B and C below, the User must collect
wastewater samples using 24-hour flow-proportional composite sampling
techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is
authorized by the Superintendent. Where time-proportional composite sampling or
grab sampling is authorized by the City, the samples must be representative of
the discharge. Using protocols (including appropriate preservation) specified
in 40 CFR Part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance, multiple grab samples
collected during a 24-hour period may be composited prior to the analysis as
follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the samples may be composited
in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile organics and oil and grease,
the samples may be composited in the laboratory. Composite samples for other
parameters unaffected by the compositing procedures as documented in approved
EPA methodologies may be authorized by the City, as appropriate. In addition,
grab samples may be required to show compliance with Instantaneous Limits.
   B.   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total phenols,
sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
   C.   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-day
compliance reports required in Section
6.1 and
6.3 [40 CFR 403.12(b) and (d)], a minimum of four (4) grab samples must be used
for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organic
compounds for facilities for which historical sampling data do not exist; for
facilities for which historical sampling data are available, the Superintendent
may authorize a lower minimum. For the reports required by paragraphs Section
6.4 (40 CFR 403.12(e) and 403.12(h)), the Industrial User is required to
collect the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure compliance by
with applicable Pretreatment Standards and Requirements.
   D.   The reports required by this ordinance shall be based on sampling and
analysis performed in the period covered by the report, and performed in
accordance with the techniques described in 40 CFR Part 136 and amendments
thereto. Where 40 CFR Part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical
techniques for the pollutant in question, or where the Superintendent
determines that the Part 136 sampling and analytical techniques are
inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling and analysis shall be
performed by using validated analytical methods or any other applicable
sampling and analytical procedures, including procedures suggested by the
Superintendent. This sampling and analysis may be performed by the
Superintendent in lieu of the User. Where the Superintendent itself collects
all the information required for the report, the User will not be required to
submit the report.
6.12   Date of Receipt of Reports
Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date postmarked.
For reports, which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail facility
serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of the report
shall govern.
6.13   Recordkeeping
Users subject to the reporting requirements of this ordinance shall retain, and
make available for inspection and copying, all records of information obtained
pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this ordinance, any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the User independent of such requirements, and documentation
associated with Best Management Practices established under Section
2.4 C. Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of
sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for a period of at least three (3) years. This period shall be
automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the User
or the City, or where the User has been specifically notified of a longer
retention period by the Superintendent.
6.14   Certification Statements
   A.   Certification of Permit Applications, User Reports and Initial
Monitoring Waiver—The following certification statement is required to be
signed and submitted by Users submitting permit applications in accordance with
Section
4.7; Users submitting baseline monitoring reports under Section
6.1 B (5); Users submitting reports on compliance with the categorical
Pretreatment Standard deadlines under Section
6.3; and Users submitting periodic compliance reports required by Section
6.4. The following certification statement must be signed by an Authorized
Representative as defined in Section
1.4 C:
      I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.
SECTION 7—COMPLIANCE MONITORING
7.1   Right of Entry: Inspection and Sampling
The Superintendent shall have the right to enter the premises of any User to
determine whether the User is complying with all requirements of this ordinance
and any individual wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users
shall allow the Superintendent ready access to all parts of the premises for
the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and the
performance of any additional duties.
   A.   Where a User has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the User shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Superintendent shall be permitted to enter
without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   B.   The Superintendent shall have the right to set up on the User's
property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the User's operations.
   C.   The Superintendent may require the User to install monitoring equipment
as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be
maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the User at
its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality shall
be calibrated per the manufacturer's recommendations to ensure their accuracy.
   D.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the User
at the written or verbal request of the Superintendent and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the User.
   E.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Superintendent access to the User's
premises shall be a violation of this ordinance.
   F.   If locating such facilities on a User's property would be impractical,
the User may apply to the Superintendent for a right of way or for permission
to construct on public property.
7.2   Search Warrants
If the Superintendent has been refused access to a building, structure, or
property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this ordinance, or that there is a
need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling
program of the City designed to verify compliance with this ordinance or any
permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health,
safety and welfare of the community, the Superintendent may seek issuance of a
search warrant from the appropriate Municipal Court, Superior Court or Circuit
Court.
SECTION 8—CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
Information and data on a User obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, individual wastewater discharge permits, and
monitoring programs, and from the Superintendent's inspection and sampling
activities, shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the
User specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the Superintendent, that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection as
trade secrets under applicable State law. Any such request must be asserted at
the time of submission of the information or data. When requested and
demonstrated by the User furnishing a report that such information should be
held confidential, the portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets
or secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the public,
but shall be made available immediately upon request to governmental agencies
for uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment program, and in
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater
constituents and characteristics and other effluent data, as defined at 40 CFR
2.302 shall not be recognized as confidential information and shall be
available to the public without restriction.
SECTION 9—PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE
The Superintendent shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions
served by the POTW a list of the Users which, at any time during the previous
twelve (12) months, were in Significant Noncompliance with applicable
Pretreatment Standards and Requirements. The term Significant Noncompliance
shall be applicable to all Significant Industrial Users (or any other
Industrial User that violates paragraphs (C), (D) or (H) of this Section) and
shall mean:
   A.   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which sixty-six percent (66%) or more of all the measurements taken
for the same pollutant parameter taken during a six- (6-) month period exceed
(by any magnitude) a numeric Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, including
Instantaneous Limits as defined in
Section 2;
   B.   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which thirty-three percent (33%) or more of wastewater measurements taken for
each pollutant parameter during a six- (6-) month period equals or exceeds the
product of the numeric Pretreatment Standard or Requirement including
Instantaneous Limits, as defined by
Section 2 multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils
and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
   C.   Any other violation of a Pretreatment Standard or Requirement as
defined by
Section 2 (Daily Maximum, long-term average, Instantaneous Limit, or narrative
standard) that the Superintendent determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, Interference or Pass Through, including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public;
   D.   Any discharge pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to the
public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Superintendent's exercise
of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   E.   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days of the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in an individual wastewater discharge
permit or enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction,
or attaining final compliance;
   F.   Failure to provide within forty five (45) days after the due date, any
required reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance
with categorical Pretreatment Standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring
reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
   G.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   H.   Any other violation(s), which may include a violation of Best
Management Practices, which the Superintendent determines will adversely affect
the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
SECTION 10—ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
10.1   Informal Notice (IN)
When the Superintendent finds that a User has violated any provision of this
ordinance, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, the
Superintendent may serve upon that User an Informal Notice of Violation. An
informal notice may be a documented phone call, written warning, or a meeting
notifying the industrial user of minor incidences that have occurred and that
need to be corrected. Repeat performance of the same incidence or escalation of
the incidence will result in escalated enforcement action.
10.2   Notification of Violation (NOV)
When the Superintendent finds that a User has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this ordinance, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or
Requirement, the Superintendent may serve upon that User a written Notice of
Violation. The Superintendent shall issue a certified letter to the User
notifying the signatory authority of the violation and requiring the following:
   •   Immediate corrective action or steps being taken to correct the problem;
   •   Increased sampling of the parameter in violation within thirty (30)
days;
   •   Written response within ten business days of receipt of NOV.
Within ten (10) days of the receipt of such notice, an explanation of the
violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to
include specific required actions, shall be submitted by the User to the
Superintendent. Submission of such a plan in no way relieves the User of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the Notice of
Violation. Nothing in this Section shall limit the authority of the
Superintendent to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a Notice of Violation.
10.3   Administrative Order (AO)
The Superintendent may issue an Administrative Order to the User to undertake
or to cease specified activities by a specified deadline. Such documents shall
include specific action to be taken by the User to correct the noncompliance
within a time period specified by the document. Such documents shall have the
same force and effect as the administrative orders issued pursuant to this
ordinance and shall be judicially enforceable.
10.4   Compliance Schedule (CS)
When the Superintendent finds that a User has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this ordinance, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or
Requirement, the Superintendent may issue an order to the User responsible for
the discharge directing that the User come into compliance within a specified
time. If the User does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer
service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or
other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance
orders also may contain other requirements to address the noncompliance,
including additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to
minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order
may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a Pretreatment
Standard or Requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the User of
liability for any violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a
compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the User.
10.5   Show Cause Hearing (SCH)
The Superintendent may order a User which has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this ordinance, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or
Requirement, to appear before the Superintendent and show cause why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the
User specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement
action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the User show cause why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be
served on any Authorized Representative of the User as defined in Section
1.4 C and required by Section
4.7 A. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the User.
10.6   Administrative Fines (AF)
   A.   When the Superintendent finds that a User has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this ordinance, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or
Requirement, the Superintendent may fine such User in the amount of $500 not to
exceed $2,500.00. Such fines shall be assessed on a per-violation, per-day
basis. In the case of monthly or other long-term average discharge limits,
fines shall be assessed for each day during the period of violation.
   B.   Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after sixty (60) calendar
days, be assessed an additional penalty of ten percent (10%) of the unpaid
balance, and interest shall accrue thereafter at a rate of five percent (5%)
per month. A lien against the User's property shall be sought for unpaid
charges, fines, and penalties.
   C.   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the Superintendent to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine
amount within ten (10) days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has
merit, the Superintendent may convene a hearing on the matter. In the event the
User's appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing
thereto, shall be returned to the User. The Superintendent may add the costs of
preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to
the fine.
   D.   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the User.
10.7   Emergency Suspensions
The Superintendent may immediately suspend a User's discharge, after informal
notice to the User, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or
threatened discharge, which reasonably appears to present or cause an imminent
or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. The
Superintendent may also immediately suspend a User's discharge, after notice
and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the operation of
the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to the
environment.
   A.   Any User notified of a suspension of its discharge shall immediately
stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a User's failure to
immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Superintendent
may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the
sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving
stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The Superintendent may allow the
User to recommence its discharge when the User has demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the Superintendent that the period of endangerment has passed,
unless the termination proceedings in Section
10.8 of this ordinance are initiated against the User.
   B.   A User that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Superintendent prior to the date of any
show cause or termination hearing under Sections
10.3 or
10.8 of this ordinance.
Nothing in this Section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing prior to
any Emergency Suspension under this Section.
10.8   Termination of Service (TS)
In addition to the provisions in Section
5.6 of this ordinance, any User who violates the following conditions is
subject to service termination:
   A.   Violation of individual wastewater discharge permit conditions;
   B.   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
   C.   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
   D.   Refusal of reasonable access to the User's premises for the purpose of
inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
   E.   Violation of the Pretreatment Standards in
Section 2 of this ordinance.
Such User will be notified of the proposed termination of its discharge and be
offered an opportunity to show cause under Section
10.3 of this ordinance why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of
this option by the Superintendent shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the User.
10.9   Cost Recovery (CR)
In addition to administrative fines imposed by the Superintendent, the User
shall be responsible for paying the following costs incurred by the POTW for
the User's failure to comply:
   •   Cost of mileage and labor incurred in detecting and correcting the
violation;
   •   Laboratory analysis costs associated with detecting and correcting the
violation;
   •   Additional treatment costs caused by the violation or associated with
detecting and correcting the violation;
   •   Costs of any additional equipment acquired or expended by POTW for
detecting or correcting the violation;
   •   Repair and/or replacement of any part of the sewerage system damaged by
the violation;
   •   Any liability, damages, fines or penalties incurred by POTW as a result
of the violation;
   •   Any and all expenses of outside professionals to include, but not
limited to, engineers, scientists, and/or legal counsel; and
   •   Other costs associated with the detection and correction of the
violations.
10.10   Judicial Action (JA)
Judicial Action will be taken when it is deemed necessary to force the User to
correct the violation and comply with the permit. Judicial action may consist
of civil prosecution, criminal prosecution, or an action for injunction, at the
discretion of the Utility and its counsel. As an alternative to judicial
action, the Superintendent and industrial user may agree to a voluntary zero
discharge of industrial waste by the industrial user pending correction of the
violation.
SECTION 11—JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
11.1   Injunctive Relief
When the Superintendent finds that a User has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this ordinance, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or
Requirement, the Superintendent may petition the appropriate court, through the
City's Attorney for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as
appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance of the
individual wastewater discharge permit, order, or other requirement imposed by
this ordinance on activities of the User. The Superintendent may also seek such
other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief, including a
requirement for the User to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for
injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against a User.
11.2   Civil Penalties
   A.   A User who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this
ordinance, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement shall be liable to
the City for a maximum civil penalty of $2,500.00 per violation, per day. In
the case of a monthly or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties
shall accrue for each day during the period of the violation.
   B.   The Superintendent may recover reasonable attorneys' fees, court costs,
and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling
and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the
City.
   C.   In determining the amount of civil liability, the Court shall take into
account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the extent
of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the violation,
any economic benefit gained through the User's violation, corrective actions by
the User, the compliance history of the User, and any other factor as justice
requires.
   D.   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a User.
11.3   Criminal Prosecution
   A.   A User who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this
ordinance, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than
$2,500.00 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more than one (1)
year, or both.
   B.   A User who willfully or negligently introduces any substance into the
POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of at least $2,500.00, or
be subject to imprisonment for not more one (1) years, or both. This penalty
shall be in addition to any other cause of action for personal injury or
property damage available under State law.
   C.   A User who knowingly makes any false statements, representations, or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other documentation
filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this ordinance, individual
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or who falsifies,
tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under this ordinance shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of
not more than $2,500.00 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more
than one (1) year, or both.
   D.   In the event of a second conviction, a User shall be punished by a fine
of not more than $7,500.00 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more
than three (3) years, or both.
11.4   Remedies Nonexclusive
The remedies provided for in this ordinance are not exclusive. The
Superintendent may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant User. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the City's enforcement response plan. However, the
Superintendent may take other action against any User when the circumstances
warrant. Further, the Superintendent is empowered to take more than one
enforcement action against any noncompliant User.
SECTION 12—SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION
12.1   Penalties for Late Reports
A penalty of up to $1,000 shall be assessed to any User for each day that a
report required by this ordinance, a permit or order issued hereunder is late,
beginning five days after the date the report is due. Higher penalties may also
be assessed where reports are more than 30-45 days late. Actions taken by the
Superintendent to collect late reporting penalties shall not limit the
Superintendent authority to initiate other enforcement actions that may include
penalties for late reporting violations.
12.2   Performance Bonds
The Superintendent may decline to issue or reissue an individual wastewater
discharge permit to any User who has failed to comply with any provision of
this ordinance, a previous individual wastewater discharge permit, or order
issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, unless
such User first files a satisfactory bond, payable to the City, in a sum not to
exceed a value determined by the Superintendent to be necessary to achieve
consistent compliance.
12.3   Liability Insurance
The Superintendent may decline to issue or reissue an individual wastewater
discharge to any User who has failed to comply with any provision of this
ordinance, a previous individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, unless the User
first submits proof that it has obtained financial assurances sufficient to
restore or repair damage to the POTW caused by its discharge.
12.4   Payment of Outstanding Fees and Penalties
The Superintendent may decline to issue or reissue an individual wastewater
discharge permit to any User who has failed to pay any outstanding fees, fines
or penalties incurred as a result of any provision of this ordinance, a
previous individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder.
12.5   Water Supply Severance
Whenever a User has violated or continues to violate any provision of this
ordinance, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, water service to
the User may be severed. Service will recommence, at the User's expense, only
after the User has satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to comply.
SECTION 13—AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
13.1   Upset
   A.   For the purposes of this Section, upset means an exceptional incident
in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with categorical
Pretreatment Standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
User. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
   B.   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical Pretreatment Standards if the requirements
of paragraph (C), below, are met.
   C.   A User who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the User can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The User has submitted the following information to the
Superintendent within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming aware of the upset. If
this information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided
within five (5) days:
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   D.   In any enforcement proceeding, the User seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   E.   Users shall have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical Pretreatment Standards.
   F.   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical Pretreatment Standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
13.2   Prohibited Discharge Standards
A User shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in Section
2.1(A) of this ordinance or the specific prohibitions in Sections
2.1(B)(3) through (17) of this ordinance if it can prove that it did not know,
or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with
discharges from other sources, would cause Pass Through or Interference and
that either:
   A.   A Local Limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the User was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the Pass Through or
Interference; or
   B.   No Local Limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the User's prior discharge when the City was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of Interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
13.3   Bypass
   A.   For the purposes of this Section,
      (1)   Bypass means the intentional diversion of wastestreams from any
portion of a User's treatment facility.
      (2)   Severe property damage means substantial physical damage to
property, damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become
inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can
reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property
damage does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   B.   A User may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause Pretreatment
Standards or Requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provision of paragraphs (C) and (D) of this Section.
   C.   Bypass Notifications
      (1)   If a User knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Superintendent, at least ten (10) days before the
date of the bypass, if possible.
      (2)   A User shall submit oral notice to the Superintendent of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable Pretreatment Standards within
twenty-four (24) hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written
submission shall also be provided within five (5) days of the time the User
becomes aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description
of the bypass and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates
and times, and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it
is expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent reoccurrence of the bypass. The Superintendent may waive the written
report on a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within
twenty-four (24) hours.
   D.   Bypass
      (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Superintendent may take an
enforcement action against a User for a bypass, unless
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The User submitted notices as required under paragraph (C) of
this section.
      (2)   The Superintendent may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the Superintendent determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in paragraph (D)(1) of this Section.
SECTION 14—WASTEWATER TREATMENT RATES - [RESERVED]
SECTION 15—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
15.1   Pretreatment Charges and Fees
The City may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and
operating the City's Pretreatment Program, which may include:
   A.   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the cost of
processing such applications;
   A.   Fees for monitoring, inspection, and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collection and analyzing a User's discharge, and reviewing
monitoring reports and certification statements submitted by Users;
   B.   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   C.   Fees for filing appeals;
   D.   Fees to recover administrative and legal costs (not included in Section
15.1 B) associated with the enforcement activity taken by the Superintendent to
address IU noncompliance;
   E.   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
pretreatment program; and
   F.   Other fees as the City may deem necessary to carry out the requirements
contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this
ordinance and are separate from all other fees, fines, and penalties chargeable
by the City.
15.2   Severability
If any provision of this ordinance is invalidated by any court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining provisions shall not be affected and shall continue
in full force and effect.
(Ord. 20-2011, passed 11-28-11; Am. Ord. 1-2014, passed 1-27-14; Am. Ord. 9-
2014, passed 4-28-14)
SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.080 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid waste resulting from any commercial,
manufacturing or industrial operation or process.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The waste from water closets, urinals, lavatories, sinks,
bath tubs, showers, household laundries, garage floor drains, bars, soda
fountains, cuspidors, refrigerator drips, drinking fountains and stable floor
drains.
('71 Code, § 52.01) (Ord. 36-85, passed 5-29-85; Am. Ord. 18-94, passed 6-14-
94)
§ 51.081 ESTABLISHMENT OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The Sewer Department shall impose rates and charges to be collected
from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of real estate or building that
is connected with the city's sewage works or otherwise discharges sanitary
sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids either directly or indirectly
into the city's sewage works, which rates and charges shall be payable as
hereinafter provided and shall be determined as follows:
      (1)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and charges
as the same may be measured by the water meter there in use, except as
otherwise provided in this subchapter.
      (2)   Sewage service rates, which are based upon the amount of water
used, shall be as follows:
 
                                  Metered Rates Per 100 Metered Rates Per 100
User         Usage                Cubic Feet Effective  Cubic Feet Effective
                                  Upon Passage          July 1, 2018
Inside city  All                  $5.88                 $6.23
             First 300,00 cubic   $8.82                 $9.36
Outside city feet per month
             Usage over 300,000   $5.88                 $6.23
             cubic feet per month
 
      (3)   The base charge for sewage services where the user is a metered
water consumer shall be based upon the size of the water connection and shall
also be as follows:
                      Effective Upon Passage   Effective July 1 2018
Base Charge Per Month Inside City Outside City Inside City Outside City
                      Effective Upon Passage   Effective July 1 2018
Base Charge Per Month Inside City Outside City Inside City Outside City
5/8 inch meter        $5.65       $8.48        $5.99       $8.99
3/4 inch meter        $5.65       $8.48        $5.99       $8.99
1 inch meter          $14.47      $21.71       $15.34      $23.00
1-1/2 inch meter      $32.58      $48.87       $34.52      $51.79
2 inch meter          $57.90      $86.85       $61.36      $92.04
3 inch meter          $130.29     $195.44      $138.07     $207.11
4 inch meter          $231.62     $347.43      $245.45     $368.18
6 inch meter          $521.13     $781.73      $552.27     $828.40
 
      (4)   (a)   Effective upon passage the charge for sewage services for
single-family domestic users who are not metered water consumers shall be
$52.69 for users located within the city's corporate boundaries and $79.04 for
users located outside of the city's corporate boundaries.
         (b)   Effective July 1, 2018 the charge for sewage services for
single-family domestic users who are not metered water consumers shall be
$55.86 for users located within the city's corporate boundaries and $83.79 for
users located outside of the city's corporate boundaries.
   (B)   These rates and charges shall be prepared and billed by the city and
shall be collected in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
('71 Code, § 52.02) (Ord. 36-85, passed 5-29-85; Am. Ord. 18-94, passed 6-14-
94; Am. Ord. 1-2002, passed 3-25-02; Am. Ord. 28-2011, passed 12-28-11; Am.
Ord. 12-2016, passed 4-12-16)
Cross-reference:
   Delinquent charges and fees, see §
51.089
§ 51.082 DETERMINATION OF CHARGE BY CITY.
   (A)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the city's
sewage works, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of water supplied by
the city's waterworks, and the water used thereon or therein is not measured by
a water meter, or is measured by a water meter not acceptable to the city, then
the city, at the owner or other interested parties' expense, shall install and
maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and
approved method of measurement acceptable to the city, said meter shall be and
remain the property of the city. The city shall also have the right to read,
inspect and maintain said meter at all reasonable hours.
   (B)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the city's
sewage works, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water meter or is
measured by a meter not acceptable to the city, then the city, at the owner or
other interested parties expense, shall install and maintain meters, weirs,
volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of measurement
acceptable to the city, said meter shall be and remain the property of the
city. The city shall also have the right to read, inspect and maintain said
meter at all reasonable hours.
   (C)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the city's
sewage works, either directly or indirectly, uses water in excess of 1,000
cubic feet per month, and it can be shown, to the satisfaction of the city,
that a portion of the water measured by the water meter or meters does not and
cannot enter the city's sewage works, then the city, then the city shall, at
the owner or other users' expense, install and maintain a meter or meters
acceptable to the city in such a manner as to determine the quantity of water
actually entering the city's sewage works, and the customer shall be billed
only for that measured quantity of water entering the city's sewage system so
determined, said meter shall be and remain the property of the city. The city
shall also have the right to read, inspect and maintain said meter at all
reasonable hours.
   (D)   In the event two or more dwelling units, such as trailers, mobile
homes, apartments or housekeeping rooms, discharging sanitary sewage, water or
other liquids into the city's sewage system, either directly or indirectly, are
users of water and the quantity of water is measured by single water meter,
then in such case billing shall be for a single service in the manner set out
elsewhere herein, except that an additional charge shall be added thereto, in
the amount of $6.57 per month, effective immediately, and $6.96 per month
effective July 1, 2018 for each dwelling unit over one served through the
single water meter. In the case of trailer or mobile home parks, the number of
dwelling units shall be interpreted as the maximum capacity for trailers or
mobile homes in said park, plus any other dwelling units served through the
meter. A dwelling unit shall be interpreted .as a room or rooms or other living
space or spaces in which cooking facilities are provided.
('71 Code, § 52.03) (Ord. 36-85, passed 5-29-85; Am. Ord. 18-94, passed 6-14-
94; Am. Ord. 1-2002, passed 3-25-02; Am. Ord. 12-2016, passed 4-12-16)
§ 51.083 CERTAIN ADJUSTMENTS BY THE CITY.
   (A)   In order that the domestic and residential users of sewage service
shall not be penalized for sprinkling lawns from May 15 to September 15
annually (sprinkler usage period), the billing for sewage service for
residences and/or domestic users for the sprinkler usage period shall be based
upon the water usage for the user's previous usage for the months of December,
January, February and March. In the event the water usage for said previous
months of December, January, February and March is greater than the usage
during the sprinkler usage period, then the billing for sewage services shall
be computed on the actual water used in the month for which the sewage service
bill is being rendered. Domestic and/or residential sewage service as
applicable to the sprinkling rate shall apply to each lot, parcel of real
estate or building which is occupied and used as a residence. The sprinkling
rate shall not apply to any premises which are partially or wholly used for
commercial or industrial purposes. In the event a portion of those premises
shall be used for commercial or industrial purposes, the owner shall have the
privilege of separating the water service so that the residential portion of
the premises is served through a separate meter and in that case the water
usage registered by the water meter serving such portion of the premises used
for residential purposes would qualify under the sprinkling rate.
   (B)   Except for billings to multiple users such as apartment houses,
trailer or mobile home parks and housekeeping rooms, the Sewer Department rates
and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying the properties
served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owners, but such billings
shall in no way relieve the owner from liability in the event payment is not
made as herein required. The owners of the properties served which are occupied
by tenants shall have the right to examine the collection records of the city
and/or the Sewer Department for the purpose of determining whether such rates
and charges have been paid by such tenants, provided that such examinations
shall be made at the office at which those records are kept and during the
hours that the office is regularly open for the transaction of business.
   (C)   For the service rendered to the city, the city shall be subject to the
same rates and charges as provided by this subchapter or consistent therewith.
('71 Code, § 52.05) (Ord. 36-85, passed 5-29-85; Am. Ord. 18-94, passed 6-14-
94; Am. Ord. 1-2002, passed 3-25-02)
§ 51.084 BASIS FOR RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   In order that the Sewer Department rates and charges may be justly and
equitably adjusted to the service rendered, the Sewer Department shall base its
charges not solely on volume, but also on the strength and character of the
sewage and wastes which it is required to treat and dispose of. The users are
hereby required to measure and determine the strength and content of all sewage
and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly, into the city's sewage
works in such manner and by such method as the city may deem practicable in the
light of the conditions and attending circumstances of the case, in order to
determine the proper charge.
   (B)   Charges shall be based on the strength of the sewage and liquid wastes
as determined by analysis of samples taken as above stated or taken from time
to time by the city. The strength and character of the sewage and wastes shall
be based on the quantity of suspended solids and five-day biological oxygen
demand, determined on samples of sewage and wastes, sampled and determined in
accordance with the latest copy of "Standard Methods of Analysis for Water,
Sewage and Industrial Wastes" as published by the American Public Health
Association. A surcharge shall be imposed when the five-day biological oxygen
demand exceeds 400 milligrams per liter or suspended solids exceeds 450
milligrams per liter. This surcharge shall be an amount equal to $0.15 per
pound in excess of 400 milligrams per liter biological oxygen demand or 450
milligrams per liter suspended solids for users of the city's corporate
boundaries or outside city's corporate boundaries. The surcharge shall be
adjusted annually based upon the annual cost of waste water treatment per pound
of suspended solids and five-day biological oxygen demand for the previous
year.
('71 Code, § 52.06) (Ord. 36-85, passed 5-29-85; Am. Ord. 18-94, passed 6-14-
94; Am. Ord. 1-2002, passed 3-25-02; Am. Ord. 21-2011, passed 11-28-11)
§ 51.085 EXTENSION OF LOCAL AND LATERAL SEWERS.
   The city, through its Sewer Department, has extended local and lateral
sewers to areas outside of the city's corporate boundaries. In consideration of
the costs involved in providing service to property outside of the city's
corporate boundaries, and the responsibility of the city to its residents to
provide efficient sewer service, the city shall have the authority to set
separate rates for users based upon whether the location of serviced property
lies inside or outside the city's corporate boundaries. Upon the annexation by
the city of any property serviced by the Sewer Department, any rates charged to
the owner of property by the Sewer Department shall reflect the rates charged
to Sewer Department customers inside of the city's corporate boundaries as of
the effective date of such annexation.
('71 Code, § 52.08) (Ord. 36-85, passed 5-29-85; Am. Ord. 18-94, passed 6-14-
94; Am. Ord. 1-2002, passed 3-25-02)
§ 51.086 REQUIRED CONNECTION.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-9-23-30, the city and the Sewer Department may
impose its rates and charges on a property owner who has failed and/or refused
to connect to the city's sewage works when:
      (1)   The city has provided written notice to the effected property owner
that the city's sewage works has an available sanitary sewer within 300 feet of
the owner's property line, and
      (2)   Provided a specific date in the above referenced written notice on
which the customer must connect to the city's sewage works (connection date),
provided that said connection date is at least 90days subsequent to the giving
of written notice concerning connection. The notice of connection date must be
given by certified mail and the Sewer Department's rates and charges shall
begin to accrue on the connection date.
   (B)   Upon the failure of a property owner to connect to an available
sanitary sewer within 300 feet of his property line, the city and the Sewer
Department may establish, enforce and collect reasonable penalties for failure
to make a connection pursuant to this subchapter. In addition, the city may
apply to the Circuit or Superior Court of Knox County to seek an order to
require a connection to the city's sewage works. In addition, pursuant to I.C.
36-9-23-31(d), the city shall have the right to seek the costs of any action
and the reasonable attorney fees of the city and the Sewer Department against
any property owner in an action under this subchapter.
(Ord. 1-2002, passed 3-25-02)
§ 51.087 CONNECTION CHARGE FOR CITY CONSTRUCTION.
   In the event of future extensions of local and lateral sewers to any areas
in or about the city, such connection charges shall be equivalent to the cost
of installation of such sewers.
('71 Code, § 52.09) (Ord. 36-85, passed 5-29-85; Am. Ord. 18-94, passed 6-14-
94; Am. Ord. 1-2002, passed 3-25-02)
§ 51.088 TAP FEE AND INSTALLATION.
   The Sewer Department shall provide the connecting spur from the sewer to the
property line of the user. Such new tap of a sewer line will consist of tapping
the sewer, construction of a connecting spur, pavement replacement and any
other work in connection therewith. The customer shall reimburse the Sewer
Department for the labor, material and overhead in connection therewith, and
such charge shall not be less than $700 ($650 plus a $50 inspection fee). The
tap charge shall be paid prior to the beginning of the work. Further, the cost
to replace an existing tap shall be a one-time fee of $700 payable prior to the
work beginning.
('71 Code, § 52.10) (Ord. 2-90, passed 3-12-90; Am. Ord. 18-94, passed 6-14-94;
Am. Ord. 1-2002, passed 3-25-02; Am. Ord. 12-2016, passed 4-12-16)
§ 51.089 DELINQUENT CHARGES AND FEES.
   All sewer charges and fees become delinquent if not paid on or before the
last date noted on the water utility bill for final payment of the water and
sewer bill or separate sewer bill if the water utility is not utilized by the
sewer customer. On that date a penalty of 10% of the delinquent fees shall be
assessed as well as a $5 service charge, a recording fee, and a release fee in
order to allow the city to enforce delinquent sewer fees by utilizing the
statutory lien process. If the fee is collected pursuant to civil action the
city may recover its reasonable attorney fees.
(Ord. 2-92, passed 3-9-92; Am. Ord. 1-2002, passed 3-25-02)
STORMWATER SERVICE
§ 51.090 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY DITCH. A channel constructed in 1930 to collect and transport storm and
surface waters from the City of Vincennes to the Walbash River.
   CITY DITCH STORMWATER SYSTEM. The stormwater system within the boundaries of
the area recognized by the Board as benefiting from the existence of City
Ditch.
   PUBLIC STORMWATER FACILITIES. Stormwater system facilities and structures
located within public rights-of-way or in easements dedicated to the City or
that have been legally accepted by other means for maintenance by the City.
These include, but are not limited to, inlets, conduits, manholes, structures,
channels, outlets, retention or detention basins, other structural components
and equipment designed to transport, move, regulate storm and surface waters
that are under the control of the City.
   STORMWATER SERVICE FEES. Fees that are imposed on users of a stormwater
system to pay the costs of system operation, maintenance, improvement and
administration.
(Ord. 9-95, passed 4-25-95)
§ 51.091 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE CITY DITCH STORMWATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The Board shall have the authority and responsibility to operate and
maintain the City Ditch Stormwater System to the extent permitted by I.C. 36-9-
23. Such authority shall include, but not be limited to, planning, designing,
financing, purchasing, constructing, maintaining, repairing, inspecting and
managing now existing and hereafter purchased or constructed stormwater
facilities. The Board shall annually prepare a budget for expenditures to be
made for the City Ditch Stormwater System. The City Common Council shall
consider that budget when its adopts or amends a stormwater service fee
ordinance.
   (B)   The Board shall, whenever practical, use the Sewer Department
personnel, equipment and facilities to operate and maintain the City Ditch
Stormwater System. Those costs of the Sewer Department attributable to the
operation and maintenance of the City Ditch Stormwater System shall be paid
from stormwater service fees collected pursuant to this subchapter (described
in § 51.093). The Board shall approve all requests for reimbursement of any
costs incurred by the Sewer Department attributable to the City Ditch
Stormwater System.
   (C)   Subject to the specific limitations of this subchapter, and of state
law, the Board has the power to establish rules and regulations for use of
public stormwater facilities, the collection of stormwater service charges and
any other matters pertaining to the interpretation and enforcement of this
subchapter.
   (D)   A new commission is hereby created and named the City Ditch Stormwater
Service Commission. This commission shall be responsible for advising the Board
on matters pertaining to the operation and maintenance of the City Ditch
Stormwater System. This commission shall consist of six members who are
landowners served by the City Ditch Stormwater System. Of the six, three shall
be owners of land in the City appointed by the Mayor; with at least one to
represent residential landowners and at least one to represent commercial,
industrial or institutional landowners. The other three shall be owners of land
outside the City appointed by the County Commissioners; two to represent owners
of lands being used for agricultural purposes and one representing owners of
land being primarily used for residential or other non-agricultural purposes.
The term of all appointees is one calendar year. Commission meetings shall be
scheduled by the Board.
(Ord. 9-95, passed 4-25-95)
§ 51.092 STORMWATER SERVICE FUND.
   All City Ditch stormwater fees collected, and the interest earned on those
collected fees, shall be deposited in a special revenue fund entitled the “City
Ditch Stormwater Service Fund” which shall be separate from any other fund or
account of the City government or a city utility. No tax revenues or other
monies received from the State of Indiana shall be deposited in this fund.
Disbursements from this fund shall be authorized by the Board. Such
disbursements shall be used for the operation, maintenance, improvement and
administration of the City Ditch Stormwater System. Monies from this fund shall
not revert to any other fund or account of the City government or a city
utility, and may not be transferred for use for any other purpose.
(Ord. 9-95, passed 4-25-95)
§ 51.093 STORMWATER SERVICE FEES.
   (A)   Fees shall be collected for the use of, and benefit received from, the
City Ditch Stormwater Service System. Monies received from the fees charged
shall be used to pay for the operation, maintenance, improvement and
administration of the City Ditch Stormwater System. The fees shall be
established by a separate ordinance that bases the fee charges on a formula
that meets the following description:
      (1)   In order to establish fees that justly and equitably reflect the
service received, the fee shall be based on estimates of storm and surface
water volume and characteristics for parcels of property or groups of parcels.
      (2)   To assure that the storm and surface water runoff volume and
characteristics of each parcel of property or group of parcels are fairly
reflected in the fee formula, the engineering principles embodied in the
hydrologic model developed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Soil
Conservation Services (“SCS”) and described in SCS's Technical Release #55
shall serve as the basis for these determinations.
      (3)   In order to establish a fee formula that accurately applies the
engineering principles embodied in the SCS hydrologic model certain other
assumptions and variables must be used in the calculation of the formula.
Factors underlying these assumptions or operating as variables include: soil
type and condition, extent and imperviousness of ground surface cover, type of
land usage and estimated rainfall amounts and their intensity. The use of such
assumptions and variables in the fee formula, to be set forth in the separate
ordinance establishing the fee charges, will be consistent with the objective
that the fees justly and equitably reflect the service received.
   (B)   In recognition of the costs to operate and maintain a stormwater
system that are not substantially affected by the volume of storm or surface
waters handled by the system, and that the formula when applied to owners of
small parcels of property may often generate revenues in amounts less than
adequate to cover the cost of billing those owners, there shall be a minimum
administrative fee for any single lot or parcel of property owned by a person.
   (C)   All fees chargeable to owners of properties within the City, and
otherwise payable by the owners of those properties, shall be paid by the City
government into the City Ditch Stormwater Services Fund.
(Ord. 9-95, passed 4-25-95)
§ 51.094 FEE BILLING SYSTEM.
   (A)   The Board shall arrange for owners of property, located outside the
boundaries of the City, served by the City Ditch Stormwater System to receive
quarterly fee charge statements. These fee charges shall be for stormwater
services provided to the property owners during the three months preceding the
mailing of the statement. These fee charges are to be paid within 30 days of
the date on the statement.
   (B)   At or before the time that fee charges are due from property owners
outside the boundaries of the City, the Board shall arrange for monies to be
deposited in the City Ditch Stormwater Services Account in an amount that
covers fees payable by owners of property within the City. This payment shall
satisfy and all City Ditch stormwater fee obligations payable by owners of
property within the City.
(Ord. 9-95, passed 4-25-95)
§ 51.095 DELINQUENT FEES.
   All stormwater service fees become delinquent if not paid on or before the
thirtieth day after the date on the quarterly fee charge statement. On that
date a penalty of 10% of the delinquent fees shall be attached to the
delinquent fee, and if the fees are collect pursuant to a civil action the City
may recover its reasonable attorney fees (I.C. 36-9-23-31). If fees are more
than 90 days delinquent then the City may enforce the delinquent stormwater
service fees by utilizing the lien process set forth in I.C. 36-9-23-32 through
34. In addition to establishing its claim for the delinquent fees and penalty
in filing for the lien, the City shall seek from the property owner a $5
service charge and the recording and release fees charged to the City by the
County.
(Ord. 9-95, passed 4-25-95)
§ 51.096 CUSTOMER APPEALS OF RATE CLASSIFICATIONS AND FEES CHARGED.
   (A)   Owners of property responsible for paying stormwater service fees may
appeal the classification of their property or the calculation of their
stormwater service fee charges to the City at any time. In order to make an
appeal to the City, the property owner must first submit a written statement to
the Superintendent indicating what it being challenged and the reasons for the
challenge, along with any verifiable documentation supporting the property
owner's claim. The Superintendent shall review the written statement and
supporting documentation and render a written determination within 45 days that
either the original classification or fee charged should be affirmed or
changed.
(Ord. 9-95, passed 4-25-95)
   (B)   If the Superintendent determines that a change should be made that
results in a lesser fee being charged to the property owner, the property owner
shall be credited accordingly for any overpayment made from the date the
original stormwater service fee was charged to that individual. If the
Superintendent determines that the property owner should not receive the change
requested, the property owner has seven days from the date of receipt of the
Superintendent written determination to request reconsideration by the Board.
   (C)   Within 30 days of receiving a request for reconsideration, the Board
shall schedule a hearing for the purpose of considering the appeal. After
conducting a hearing the Board shall render a decision on the appeal.
   (D)   A dispute or appeal of a rate classification or of a fee charged is
not a valid reason for non-payment of the stormwater service fee.
   (E)   This right to appeal to the Superintendent and the Board is
independent of and in addition to any other rights provided by statute for
challenging rate ordinances or specific rates assessed individual property
owners.
(Ord. 9-95, passed 4-25-95)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.100 AUTHORITY OF CITY.
   (A)   The city shall make and enforce any bylaws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
city's sewerage system, regulator chambers, pumping stations and sewage
treatment works, for the construction and use of house sewers and connections
to the sewerage system, and for the regulation, collection, rebating and
refunding of those rates and charges.
   (B)   The city is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the
city's sewerage system, which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works of the city or to require methods
affecting pretreatment of those wastes to reduce the characteristics of the
waste satisfactorily to the city.
('71 Code, § 52.07) (Ord. 36-85, passed 5-29-85)
Cross-reference:
   Delinquent charges and fees, see §
51.089
§ 51.101 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS; LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this chapter,
except §
51.005, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within a period of time stated in the
notice, permanently cease all violations.
('71 Code, § 51.99(A))
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city
by reason of that violation.
('71 Code, § 51.99(C))
(Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 5-76, passed 7-12-76)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided
for in §
51.101(A), shall be guilty of a violation, and upon conviction thereof, shall
be fined not more than $2,500 and costs. Each day of continued violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
('71 Code, § 51.99(B)) (Ord. 1278, passed 7-27-65; Am. Ord. 23-82, passed 5-10-
82)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
   
52.01   Rates and charges
   
52.02   Rates upon annexation
Cross Connections
   
52.15   Legal authority
   
52.16   Definitions
   
52.17   Backflow prevention requirements
   
52.18   Compliance
§ 52.01 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Monthly Water Usage.
      (1)   Block Rate. The following block rates (subject to the monthly
minimum provided in division (A)(2) below) apply to cubic feet of metered water
usage on a monthly basis:
 
                          Effective Upon Passage
Consumption Per Month     Rates Inside City Rates Outside City
(Rate per 100 Cubic Feet)
First 1,500 cubic feet    $1.85             $2.78
Next 2,500 cubic feet     $1.61             $2.42
Over 4,000 cubic feet     $1.38             $2.07
 
Billings will be based on 100 cubic feet units, Any fractional part of a 100
cubic feet unit used as of the date on which the meter is read will be billed
as water usage for the next succeeding monthly billing period.
      (2)   Monthly Minimum.  The monthly minimum charge per meter shall be as
follows:
           Effective Upon Passage
Meter Size Inside City Outside City
           Effective Upon Passage
Meter Size Inside City Outside City
5/8 inch   $11.23      $16.84
3/4 inch   $11.23      $16.84
1 inch     $22.97      $34.46
1-1/2 inch $47.08      $70.63
2 inch     $80.82      $121.24
3 inch     $177.25     $265.88
4 inch     $312.22     $468.34
6 inch     $697.89     $1,046.85
 
   (B)   Fire Protection.
      (1)   Annual Fire Protection Services. The annual minimum for fire
protection services (in the form of an annual sprinkler charge) shall be as
follows:
           Effective Upon Passage
Connection Inside City Outside City
           Effective Upon Passage
Connection Inside City Outside City
2 inch     $25.18      $37.77
3 inch     $57.22      $85.83
4 inch     $100.71     $151.06
6 inch     $228.89     $343.34
8 inch     $407.43     $611.14
10 inch    $636.32     $954.47
12 inch    $915.55     $1,373.33
 
   (C)   Collections. A collection charge of 10% will be added to all bills
that are not paid on or before the due date listed on the bill.
   (D)   Connection Charges. The minimum charge for connecting to the Municipal
Waterworks shall be as follows, payable at the time application for connection
is made:
 
Meter Size         Charge
5/8 inch           $840.00
3/4 inch or larger Cost of installation but not less than $840.00
 
   (E)   Shutoff charge. The charge for shutting off the meter after
disconnection caused by failure of the customer to pay for water service shall
be $50.
   (F)   Meter Deposits. The meter deposits shall be as follows:
Meter Size Charge
Meter Size  Charge
   5/8 in   $ 60.00
   3/4 in   $ 75.00
   1 inch    $ 100.00
   1½ in   $ 150.00
   2 inch   $ 200.00
   3 inch   $ 300.00
   4 inch   $ 400.00
   6 inch   $ 600.00
 
   (G)   After Hours Service Call. The charges to a customer requesting service
after regular hours of the Municipal Waterworks shall be $60.
   (H)   Bad Check Charge. The charge for a check returned because of non-
sufficient funds shall be $35.
   (I)   Damages to meter or meter set. Any damages including but not limited
to the meter, transmitter, lock, or meter lid will be charged to the customer
and/or property owner at the cost to repair the damages.
   (J)   Percentage differential. For service rendered by the municipal
waterworks to lots, parcels of real estate or buildings located outside the
corporate boundaries of the city, the rates and charges, including minimum
charge, shall be 50% greater than for service rendered to lots, parcels of real
estate or buildings located inside the corporate boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 3-25-02; Am. Ord. 11-2016, passed 4-12-16; Am. Ord. 5-
2022, passed 6-27-22)
§ 52.02 RATES UPON ANNEXATION.
   Upon the annexation by the city of any property services by the Municipal
Waterworks, any rates charged to the owner of said property by the Municipal
Waterworks shall reflect the rates charged to customers inside of the city as
of the effective date of such annexation.
(Ord. 2-2002, passed 3-25-02)
CROSS CONNECTIONS
§ 52.15 LEGAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Purpose and policy. The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the
public potable water supply of Vincennes, Indiana, from the possibility of
contamination or pollution due to backflow of contaminants through the water
service connection. This subchapter outlines procedures for promoting the
elimination or control of existing cross connections, actual or potential, and
establishes a systematic approach for maintaining a continual program of cross
connection control.
   (B)   Responsibilities. The city potable water system shall be considered as
made up of two parts: The utility system and the user's system:
      (1)   The utility system shall consist of the source facilities and the
distribution system and shall include all air gaps or approved backflow
prevention assemblies properly installed and maintained, up to the point where
the user's system begins. The source shall include all components of the
facilities utilized in the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of
water to the distribution system. The distribution system shall include the
network of mains used for the delivery of water from the source to the user's
system.
      (2)   The user's system shall include those parts of the facilities
beyond the termination of the utility distribution system which are utilized in
conveying utility-delivered potable water to points of use.
   (C)   Legal authority. 
      (1)   This subchapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the
city drinking water system and enables the utility to comply with applicable
state and federal laws. Legal authority is established under Indiana Law in the
following areas:
         (a)   I.C. Title 36, Article 1: General Provisions. Establishes the
authority of any city in the State of Indiana to exercise any power or perform
any function necessary to the public interest in the context of its municipal
or internal affairs.
         (b)   327 IAC Article 8, Rule 10: Public Water Supply.  Prohibits the
construction or maintenance of a cross connection on public water supply
systems.
         (c)   675 IAC 16: Plumbing Code. Requires protection of the public
water supply from contaminates due to backflow of contaminants through the
water service connection.
      (2)   The utility shall be the interpreter of this subchapter and shall
retain all authority as to whether such a backflow prevention device is
required. If such a backflow prevention device is required, the utility, in its
sole discretion, shall determine the type and the location of the device. The
utility may order installation of said device by written notice to the user,
under the conditions defined therein. Users located outside of the corporate
limits of the City of Vincennes are also subject to the provisions of this
subchapter.
      (3)   This subchapter is in addition to and supplements the uniform
Indiana Plumbing Code (675 IAC 16) and shall not supersede the provisions of
the plumbing code.
   (D)   Effect of subchapter related to other laws. In the event that the
requirements of this subchapter differ or conflicts with any other state law
authorizing the enactment of these requirements, the provisions of this
subchapter shall apply and the stricter of the two shall be observed. It shall
be understood that under no circumstances shall this subchapter be construed to
contradict existing state law regulating this matter.
   (E)   Reference standards. The standards established by the American Water
Works Association (AWWA) and the Foundation for Cross Connection Control and
Hydraulic Research (FCCC & HR) cited in this subchapter are hereby adopted and
incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 14-2023, passed 10-23-23)
§ 52.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP (AG). A physical separation between the free-flowing discharge end
of a potable water supply pipeline and the overflow rim of an open or non-
pressure receiving vessel. An approved air gap shall be at least double the
inside diameter of the supply pipe measured vertically above the overflow rim
of the vessel, or six inches, whichever is less; and in no case less than one
inch. In cases where:
      (1)   A side wall, rib, or similar obstruction is spaced closer than
three diameters from the piping affecting the air gap; or
      (2)   Two intersecting walls are located closer than four pipe diameters
from the piping affecting the air gap; a minimum of three times the diameter of
the discharge pipe or six inches, whichever is less, is required above the
maximum recorded flood level or above the flood level rim of the receiving
vessel, whichever is higher.
   APPROVED. Accepted by the utility as meeting an applicable specification
stated or cited in this chapter, or as suitable for the proposed use.
   ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER BACK-SIPHONAGE PREVENTION ASSEMBLY (AVB). A
device or assembly composed of an air inlet valve, a check valve seat, and an
air inlet port. The flow of water into the body causes the air inlet valve to
close the air inlet port. When the flow of water stops the air inlet valve
falls and forms a check against Back-siphonage. At the same time, it opens the
air inlet port allowing air to enter and satisfy the vacuum. Also known as an
ATOMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the utility's approved public water supply. These auxiliary waters
may include water from another utility's public potable water supply or any
natural source(s) such as a well, spring, river, stream, etc., or USED WATERS
or INDUSTRIAL FLUIDS. These waters may be contaminated or polluted, or they may
be objectionable and constitute an unacceptable water source over which the
utility does not have sanitary control.
   BACKFLOW. The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either
backpressure or back- siphonage.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE TESTER, CERTIFIED. A person in good standing who
is qualified to test backflow prevention devices and has proven their
competency to the satisfaction of the appropriate regulatory agencies.
   BACKPRESSURE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
under pressure into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system
from any source or sources other than the intended source.
   BACK-SIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply caused by the reduction
of pressure in the potable water supply system.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER/BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE/BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY.
An approved assembly or means designed to prevent backflow.
   CONTAMINATE/CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the potable water
by sewage, industrial fluids or waste liquids, compounds or other materials to
a degree which creates an actual, or potential hazard to the public health
through poisoning or through the spread of disease or creates a nuisance
condition such as discoloration, staining, tastes or odors.
   CROSS CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or
fixtures between two otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains
potable water and the other non-potable water or industrial fluids of
questionable safety, through which, or because of which, backflow or back-
siphonage may occur into the potable water system.
   CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL BY CONTAINMENT.  The installation of an approved
backflow prevention assembly at the water service connection (downstream side
of the water meter before any branching) to any user's premises where it is
physically and economically unfeasible to find and permanently eliminate or
control all actual or potential cross-connections within the user's water
system; or it shall mean the installation of an approved backflow prevention
assembly on the service line leading to and supplying a portion of a user's
water system where there are actual or potential cross-connections which cannot
be effectively eliminated or controlled at the point of the cross-connection.
   CROSS CONNECTIONS CONTROLLED. A connection between a potable water system
and a non-potable water system with an air gap or approved backflow prevention
assembly properly installed and maintained so that it will continuously afford
the protection commensurate with the degree of hazard.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. An evaluation of the potential risk to public health and
the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable water system, including, but
not necessarily limited to any health hazard, pollution hazard, plumbing
hazard, and/or system hazard.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY (DC). A device or assembly
composed of two tightly closing shut-off valves surrounding two independently
acting check valves, with four test cocks, one upstream of the four valves and
one between each of the four check and shut-off valves.
   DOUBLE CHECK-DETECTOR BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY (DCDA). A specifically
designed assembly composed of a line-size approved double check valve assembly
with a bypass containing a specific water meter and an approved double check
valve assembly.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device, or practice in the water supply system
and its operation, which could create, or in the judgment of the utility, may
create a danger to the health and wellbeing of any water consumer or user.
   INDUSTRIAL FLUIDS SYSTEM. Any system containing a fluid or solution, which
may be chemically, biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form
or concentration such as would constitute a health, system, pollution or
plumbing hazard if introduced into an approved water supply. This may include,
but not be limited to: polluted or contaminated waters; all types of process
waters and USED WATER originating from the public potable water system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality; chemicals in fluid form; plating
acids and alkalines, circulating cooling waters connected to an open cooling
tower and/or cooling towers that are chemically or biologically treated or
stabilized with toxic substances; contaminated natural waters such as from
wells, springs, streams, rivers, irrigation canals or systems, etc.; oils,
gases, glycerin, paraffin, caustic and acid solutions and other liquid and
gaseous fluids used in industrial or other purposes or for fire-fighting
purposes.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water which is not safe for human consumption, or which
is of questionable potability.
   PLUMBING HAZARD. A plumbing type cross connection in a user's potable water
system that has not been properly protected by an approved air gap or approved
backflow prevention assembly.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic, or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness or quality of the water to a degree which does
not create an actual hazard to the public health, but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect such waters for domestic use.
   POLLUTION HAZARD. An actual or potential threat to the physical water system
which would constitute a nuisance or be aesthetically objectionable or could
cause damage to the system or its appurtenances, but would not be dangerous to
health.
   POTABLE WATER. Any water which, according to recognized standards, is safe
for human consumption.
   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKERS (PVB). A device or assembly containing an
independently operating internally loaded check valve and an independently
operating loaded air inlet valve located on the downstream side of the check
valve for relieving a vacuum or partial vacuum in a pipeline.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPAL BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES (RP). A device
composed of two tightly closing shut-off valves surrounding two independently
acting pressure reducing check valves that, in turn, surround an automatic
pressure differential relief valve, and four test cocks, one upstream of the
five valves and one between each of the four check and shut-off valves. The
check valves effectively divide the structure into three chambers, pressure is
reduced in each downstream chamber allowing the pressure differential relief
valve to vent the chamber to atmosphere should either or both check valves
malfunction.
   SPILL RESISTANT VACUUM BREAKER (SRVB). An assembly containing an
independently operating, internally loaded check valve, and an independently
operating, loaded air inlet valve, located on the discharge side of the check
valve. The assembly is to be equipped with a properly located, resilient seated
test cock, a properly located bleed or vent valve, and tightly closing,
resilient seated shutoff valves, at each end of the assembly.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the Water Department of the City of
Vincennes who is vested with the authority and responsibility for the
implementation of an effective cross connection control program and for the
enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to the
physical properties of the public potable water system or the user's potable
water system or of a pollution or contamination which would have a protracted
effect on the quality of the potable water in the system. Also included is the
introduction of a material not dangerous to health but aesthetically
objectionable that would have a degrading effect on the quality of the potable
water in the system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a water utility from a public potable
water system to a user's water system after it has passed through the point of
delivery and is no longer under the sanitary control of the water utility.
   USER. A user of the City of Vincennes Water Department.
   UTILITY. Refers to the City of Vincennes Water Department.
   WATER SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service connection from the
public potable water system; i.e., where the utility loses jurisdiction and
sanitary control over the water at its point of delivery to the user's water
system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service connection, then the
service connection shall mean the downstream end of the meter, provided the
meter is installed outside of a building; i.e., in a meter pit or vault. If the
meter is installed inside a building, then the water utility's jurisdiction
terminates at the downstream end of the outside shut off valve to the water
service. There should be no unprotected takeoffs from the service line ahead of
any meter or ahead of any backflow prevention assembly. Service connection
shall also include water service connection from a fire hydrant and all other
temporary or emergency water service connections from the public potable water
system.
(Ord. 14-2023, passed 10-23-23)
§ 52.17 BACKFLOW PREVENTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Use of backflow prevention assemblies.
      (1)   No water service connection to any premise shall be installed or
maintained by the utility unless the water supply is protected as required by
the City of Vincennes laws and regulations and this subchapter. Service of
water to any premise shall be discontinued by the utility if a backflow
prevention assembly required by this subchapter is not installed, tested, and
maintained, or if it is found that a backflow prevention assembly has been
removed, bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on the
premises. Services will not be restored until such conditions or defects are
corrected.
      (2)   The user's system shall be open for inspection at all reasonable
times to authorized utility representatives to determine whether unprotected
cross-connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including violations
of this subchapter, exist. When such a condition becomes known or suspected,
the utility shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises by
providing for a physical break in the service line until the user has corrected
the condition(s) in conformance with this subchapter and all regulations listed
in § 52.15 and included per reference herein.
      (3)   An approved backflow prevention assembly shall be installed on each
service line wherever the following conditions exist:
         (a)   In the case of premises having an auxiliary water supply which
is not or may not be of safe bacteriological or chemical quality and which is
not acceptable as an additional source by the utility, the public water system
shall be protected against backflow from the premises by installing an approved
backflow prevention assembly in the service line appropriate to the degree of
hazard;
         (b)   In the case of premises on which any industrial fluids or any
other objectionable substance is handled in such a fashion as to create an
actual or potential health, plumbing, pollution, and/or system hazard, the
public system shall be protected against backflow from the premises by
installing an approved backflow prevention assembly in the service line
appropriate to the degree of hazard. This shall include the handling of process
waters and waters originating from the utility system which have been subject
to deterioration in quality; and
         (c)   In the case of premises having an internal cross connection that
cannot be permanently corrected or controlled, an intricate plumbing and piping
arrangements, or where entry to all portions of the premises are not readily
accessible for inspection purposes, making it impractical or impossible to
ascertain whether or not dangerous and/or hazardous cross connections exist,
the public water system shall be protected against backflow from the premises
by installing an approved backflow prevention assembly in the service line or
lines where potential health, plumbing, pollution, and/or system hazards could
exist.
   (B)   Selection of backflow prevention assemblies. The type of protective
assembly required shall depend upon the degree of hazard which exists as
follows:
      (1)   An air gap (AG) or a reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
assembly (RP) shall be installed:
         (a)   At any premise which has an auxiliary water supply.
         (b)   At any premise which has the potential for any material
dangerous to health that could create an actual or potential health, plumbing,
pollution, and/or system hazard, including, but not limited to, wastewater
treatment plans, wastewater pumping stations, chemical manufacturing plants,
hospitals, mortuaries and plating plants.
         (c)   At any premise which has uncontrolled cross connections, either
actual or potential.
         (d)   At any premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete in-plant cross connection survey.
         (e)   At any residential, commercial, or industrial facility deemed by
the utility to pose a contamination hazard and/or a health, plumbing,
pollution, and/or system hazard.
      (2)   A reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly (RP)
shall be installed:
         (a)   At all new connections to the utility's water supply.
         (b)   At residential facility with hot water heat (boilers). Such
boilers should have, as per the Indiana Plumbing Code, an expansion tank and or
safety valves to prevent expansion problems.
         (c)   On any domestic service line tapped into a fire line.
      (3)   A double check valve backflow prevention assembly (DC) shall be
installed where there is water or a substance that would be objectionable but
not a health, pollution, or system hazard, if introduced into the public water
system.
      (4)   A pressure vacuum breaker (PVB), an air gap (AG), or a reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly (RP) shall be installed on the
water line connecting the public water supply to any lawn irrigation systems,
including similar lawn-care systems and garden hose spigots buried below ground
that has a sprinkler outlet located less than six inches above grade and
construction after July 19, 1985.
      (5)   A double check detector assembly (DCDA) shall be installed on all
fire sprinkler systems upstream of the fire riser and Siamese (fire department)
connection. If a chemical is used for winterizing or for fire suppression, a
reduced pressure principle backflow preventer (RP) must be used.
   (C)   Installation of backflow prevention assemblies.
      (1)   The backflow prevention device shall be located immediately
downstream of the water meter. There shall be no taps upstream of the backflow
prevention devices that are not protected by additional backflow prevention
devices. The existence of backflow prevention devices on the user's premises
other than at this required location shall not negate the requirement at this
location. Exact installation alignment and elevation requirements shall be
determined by reference to 327 IAC 8-10-7 and other applicable state law
regulations.
      (2)   Users needing continuous water service that cannot be interrupted
for testing the backflow prevention device shall install a lockable bypass
system so as not to interrupt water service for testing and maintenance of the
devices.
      (3)   Heat exchange loops, intentionally returning water to the public
supply, shall not be allowed. Any other loop or set of taps into a private
water system allowing water to return to the public system shall require
appropriate backflow prevention devices on all taps.
      (4)   Pre-existing facilities that have no backflow prevention device and
where there is a health, plumbing, pollution, and/or system hazard shall be
required to install an appropriate device within two years after the effective
date of this subchapter.
      (5)   All presently-installed backflow prevention assemblies which do not
meet the requirements of this subchapter that were approved devices for the
purposes described in this subchapter at the time of installation and which
have been properly maintained, shall be excluded from the requirement of this
subchapter so long as the utility is assured that they will satisfactorily
protect the utility system. These facilities will be required to comply with
the subchapter, at the user's expense, upon the occurrence of any one of the
following events:
         (a)   Change of ownership or occupancy of the facility;
         (b)   Remodeling of the facility, including but not limited to the
addition of machinery or chemicals;
         (c)   Installation of a new service line or upgrade to existing water
service, including but not limited to relocation of the existing backflow
prevention device;
         (d)   Occurrence of a backflow event; or
         (e)   Determination by the utility that the assembly or its
maintenance constitutes a health, pollution, and/or system hazard.
(Ord. 14-2023, passed 10-23-23)
§ 52.18 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Inspection of backflow prevention assemblies.
      (1)   The user's system should be open for inspection at all reasonable
times to authorized representatives of the utility to determine whether there
exists cross connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including
violations of this subchapter or regulations which are adopted through this
subchapter. Any water user or owner of a private water supply system shall
allow access to their facilities for inspection of their system and for testing
of any backflow prevention device. If access for inspection is denied on the
basis of government security or any other reason, a maximum hazard shall be
assumed requiring a reduced pressure backflow prevention device.
      (2)   Each cross-connection control device shall be inspected or tested
at the time of construction or installation. Additionally, all users and owners
of private water supply systems which connect to the utility are required to
maintain any backflow prevention device and shall have them inspected and
tested at the intervals as indicated in division (C) below, by a certified
inspector, who shall report the results to the utility and to the user. The
inspection shall be at the expense of the user. Inspector certification is done
by the State of Indiana and a certificate is issued accordingly. All repairs to
the device are the responsibility of the user.
   (B)   Retention of reports for backflow prevention assemblies. The inspector
shall report to the utility and user all results of the inspection or tests
conducted. Reports shall be submitted to the utility within 30 days of the
inspection or test. The user shall retain records of all testing, repair, and
approval of backflow prevention devices for a three-year period. The utility is
required to retain all records of testing and repair of such devices. The
utility shall permit access to these files at reasonable times and upon
presentation of identification by the commissioner of IDEM, or their authorized
representative.
   (C)   Testing of backflow prevention assemblies. The testing frequency shall
be as follows:
      (1)   Air gaps (AG) shall be inspected at intervals not exceeding one
year to ensure that they continue to meet the requirements.
      (2)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly (RP) shall
be tested at intervals not exceeding one year to ensure that both check valves
are drip tight under all pressure differentials and that the pressure
differential relief valve will maintain pressure in the center chamber of at
least two pounds per square inch below that of the inlet chamber.
      (3)   Double check valve backflow prevention assembly (DC) shall be
tested at intervals not exceeding one year to ensure that both check valves are
drip tight under all pressure differentials.
      (4)   Double check-detector backflow prevention assembly (DCDA) shall be
tested at intervals not exceeding one year to ensure that both check valves are
drip tight under all pressure differentials.
      (5)   Pressure vacuum breakers (PVB) and spill resistance vacuum breakers
(SRVB) shall be tested at intervals not exceeding one year to ensure that the
air inlet opens fully when water pressure is at or below atmospheric pressure.
      (6)   Atmospheric vacuum breaker back-siphonage prevention assemblies
(AVB) shall be tested at intervals not exceeding one year to ensure proper
operation of the air inlet valve. Removal of canopy may be necessary to
determine free movement of air inlet valve.
      (7)   An inspection tag must be installed upon completion of testing,
calibration, or repair of any cross-connection control device. The inspection
tag must be waterproof and protected against tampering and must have at least
the following information:
         (a)   The name of the inspector;
         (b)   The date of the inspection; and
         (c)   The registration number, model number, serial number, and size
of the cross-connection control device.
   (D)   Approval of backflow prevention assemblies. Any backflow prevention
assembly required under this subchapter shall be a model and size approved by
the utility. The term "approved backflow prevention assembly" shall mean an
assembly that has been manufactured in full conformance with the standards
established by the American Water Works Association (AWWA) entitled "AWWA C506-
84 Standards for Reduced Pressure Principle and Double Check Valve Backflow
Prevention Devices." Said assembly shall meet the laboratory and field
performance specifications of the Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and
Hydraulic Research (FCCC&HR) of the University of Southern California
established by Specifications of Backflow Prevention Assemblies - Section 10 of
the most current issue of the Manual of Cross Connection Control or those
acceptable under the Indiana plumbing code pursuant to the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission rules (675 IAC 16-1.2). Incorporated by reference is
the "List of Approved Backflow Prevention Assemblies" by the FCCC&HR, latest
version, including vertically installed reduced pressure principal backflow
preventers. Final approval shall be evidenced by a Certificate of Approval
issued by an approved testing laboratory certifying full compliance with the
said AWWA standards and FCCC&HR specifications.
   (E)   User responsibility. It shall be the duty of the user at any premises
where backflow prevention assemblies and/or cross-connection control devices
are installed to have certified inspections and operational tests made upon
installation and at the frequency dictated in this subchapter. In those
instances where the utility deems the degree of hazard to be great enough, the
Superintendent may require certified inspections at more frequent intervals.
These inspections and tests shall be at the expense of the user and shall be
performed by a certified tester, as indicated in this subchapter. Users who
fail to test said assemblies/devices in accordance with this subchapter may
face penalties, including fines and disconnection of service, as described in
division (F) below. All backflow prevention assemblies and/or cross-connection
control devices shall be repaired, overhauled or replaced at the expense of the
user whenever said assemblies are found to be defective. Records of such tests,
repairs and overhaul shall be kept and made available to the utility.
   (F)   Penalties for noncompliance.
      (1)   Service of water to any premises may be discontinued by the utility
if a backflow prevention assembly and/or cross-connection control device
required by this subchapter is not installed, tested and maintained, or if it
is found that a backflow prevention assembly has been removed, bypassed, or if
an unprotected cross connection exists on the premises. Service will not be
restored until such conditions or defects are corrected.
      (2)   Any person who violates any provision of this subchapter for which
no other penalty is otherwise specifically provided shall be fined not more
than $1,000. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day that a
violation occurs or continues.
      (3)   When a violation becomes known, the Superintendent may deny or
immediately discontinue service to the premises by providing for a physical
break in the service line until the user has corrected the condition(s) in
conformance with the state statutes and city ordinances relating to plumbing
and water supplies and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   (G)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Exemptions to this subchapter shall be in accordance with all
written requirements of the Indiana Plumbing Code, incorporated herein by
reference. Any exemptions must be issued by the Commissioner of the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), based on exempted activities as
stated in 327 IAC Article 8, Rule 10. An exemption shall remain valid for no
more than three years from the date of issuance. If it is found by the
Commissioner of IDEM that the user has become a cross connection hazard, the
exemption will be voided, and the user notified.
      (2)   Any change in the process, plumbing, or materials used or stored at
an exempted facility must be reported to the utility at least 14 days prior to
making the change. Failure to do so may result in a voided exemption.
(Ord. 14-2023, passed 10-23-23)
CHAPTER 53: STORMWATER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Authority and title
   
53.002   Background
   
53.003   Findings
   
53.004   Purpose
   
53.005   Abbreviations and definitions
   
53.006   Responsibility for administration
   
53.007   Conflicting ordinances
   
53.008   Interpretation
   
53.009   Severability
   
53.010   Disclaimer of liability
Prohibited Discharges and Connections
   
53.020   Applicability and exemptions
   
53.021    Prohibited discharges and connections
   
53.022    Exempted discharges and connections
   
53.023    Storage of hazardous or toxic material
   
53.024    Private property maintenance duties
   
53.025   Spill reporting
   
53.026   Inspections and monitoring
Stormwater Pollution Prevention for Construction Sites
   
53.040   Applicability and exemptions
   
53.041   Policy on stormwater pollution prevention
   
53.042   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
53.043   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping and reporting
Stormwater Quality Management for Post-Construction
   
53.050   Applicability and exemptions
   
53.051   Policy on stormwater quality management
   
53.052   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
53.053   Easement requirements
   
53.054   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping and reporting
Stormwater Quantity Management
   
53.060   Applicability and exemptions
   
53.061   Stormwater control policy
Fees and Assurances
   
53.070   Fees
   
53.071   Assurances
Enforcement
   
53.080   Compliance with chapter
   
53.081   Stop work order
   
53.082   Failure to comply or complete
   
53.083   Suspension of access to the storm drainage system
   
53.084   Corrective action
   
53.085   Appeals
Stormwater Utility Fee
   
53.100   Stormwater utility fee; rights and responsibilities of property owner
   
53.101   Design of stormwater utility fee
   
53.102   Stormwater utility fee for residential property
   
53.103   Stormwater utility fee for non-residential property
   
53.104   Rounding of ERU and stormwater utility fees
   
53.105   Payment and collection
   
53.106   Appeals of ERU determination of non-residential property
   
53.107   Consolidation of contiguous parcels
   
53.108   Stormwater Fund
 
   
53.999   Penalty
GENERAL INFORMATION
§ 53.001 AUTHORITY AND TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted in accordance with statutory authority granted
under I.C. 36-9-28 and I.C. 36-9-28.5, and further is required by Phase II of
the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System program (FR Doc. 99-29181)
authorized by the 1972 amendments to the Clean Water Act, the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management's Rule 13 (327 IAC 15-13), and the
Indiana Department of Environmental Management's Rule 5 (327 IAC 15-5). Based
on this authority and these requirements, this chapter regulates:
      (1)   Discharges of prohibited non-stormwater flows into the storm drain
system.
      (2)   Stormwater drainage improvements related to development of lands
located within city.
      (3)   Drainage control systems installed during new construction and
grading of lots and other parcels of land.
      (4)   Erosion and sediment control systems installed during new
construction and grading of lots and other parcels of land.
      (5)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater drainage
facilities and systems.
      (6)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater quality
facilities and systems.
   (B)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the City of Vincennes
Stormwater Ordinance.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.002 BACKGROUND.
   (A)   The Common Council of City of Vincennes State of Indiana, on April 12,
1999, adopted Resolution No. 1-99, which established "Stormwater Drainage
Policy", in order to govern the control of runoff of stormwater and to protect,
conserve and promote the orderly development of the land in the city and its
water resources. This chapter was primarily targeted at stormwater discharge
quantity.
   (B)   On December 8, 1999, Phase II of the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit program was published in the Federal
Register. The NPDES program, as authorized by the 1972 amendments to the Clean
Water Act, controls water pollution by regulating point sources that discharge
pollutants into waters of the United States. Phase II of NPDES requires permit
coverage for stormwater discharges from regulated small municipal separate
storm sewer systems (MS4s) and for small construction activity that results in
the disturbance of equal to or greater than one acre. This federal regulation
went into affect March 10, 2003. In response to Phase II of NPDES, the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management enacted Rule 13 (327 IAC 15-13) and
revised Rule 5 (327 IAC 15-5).
   (C)   Under these new state and federal regulations, the city is required to
establish a regulatory mechanism for regulating stormwater quality management.
Therefore, the Stormwater Policy was expanded to include stormwater quality in
addition to quantity.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.003 FINDINGS.
   The city finds that:
   (A)   Water bodies, roadways, structures, and other property within, and
downstream of the city are at times subjected to flooding;
   (B)   Flooding is a danger to the lives and property of the public and is
also a danger to the natural resources of the region;
   (C)   Land development alters the hydrologic response of watersheds,
resulting in increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, increased flooding,
increased stream channel erosion, and increased sediment transport and
deposition;
   (D)   Soil erosion resulting from land-disturbing activities causes a
significant amount of sediment and other pollutants to be transported off-site
and deposited in ditches, streams, wetlands, lakes, and reservoirs;
   (E)   Increases of stormwater runoff rates, soil erosion, and non-point
source pollution have occurred as a result of land development, and have
resulted in a deterioration of the water resources of the city;
   (F)   Increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, and the sediments and
pollutants associated with stormwater runoff from future development projects
within the city will, absent reasonable regulation and control, adversely
affect the city's water bodies and water resources;
   (G)   Illicit discharges have occurred as a result of illegal dumping and
direct connections of non-stormwater flows, and have resulted in a
deterioration of the water resources of the city;
   (H)   Continued pollutant contributions from illicit discharges within the
city will, absent reasonable regulation, monitoring, and enforcement, adversely
affect the city's water bodies and water resources;
   (I)   Stormwater runoff, soil erosion, non-point source pollution, and
illicit sources of pollution can be controlled and minimized by the regulation
of stormwater management;
   (J)   Adopting the standards, criteria, and procedures contained and
referenced in this chapter and implementing the same will address many of the
deleterious effects of stormwater runoff and illicit discharges;
   (K)   Adopting this chapter is necessary for the preservation of the public
health, safety, and welfare, and for the conservation of our natural resources.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.004 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the city through the regulation of
stormwater and non-stormwater discharges to the storm drainage system; and to
protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of land and water
resources within city. This chapter establishes methods for managing the
quantity and quality of stormwater entering into the storm drain system in
order to comply with state and federal requirements. The objectives of this
chapter are:
   (A)   To reduce the hazard to public health and safety caused by excessive
stormwater runoff.
   (B)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm drain system
from active construction site runoff.
   (C)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm drain system
from runoff from new development and re-development.
   (D)   To prohibit illicit discharges into the storm drain system.
   (E)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, monitoring,
and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (F)   To establish requirements for stormwater discharges from municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) conveyances so that public health, existing
water uses, and aquatic biota are protected.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.005 ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following abbreviations shall
apply.
      (1)   BMP. Best management practice.
      (2)   CWA. Clean Water Act.
      (3)   ERU. Equivalent residential unit.
      (4)   GIS. Geographical Information System.
      (5)   IDEM. Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
      (6)   MS4.  Municipal separate storm sewers.
      (7)   NPDES. National Pollution Discharge Elimination System.
      (8)   NRCS.  USDA-Natural Resources Conservation Service.
      (9)   POTW. Publicly Owned Treatment Works.
      (10)   SWCD.  Soil and Water Conservation District.
      (11)   SWPPP. Stormwater pollution prevention plan.
      (12)   USACE.  United States Army Corps of Engineers.
      (13)   USDA. United States Department of Agriculture.
      (14)   USEPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES. Design, construction, and maintenance
practices and criteria for stormwater facilities that minimize the impact of
stormwater runoff rates and volumes, prevent erosion, and capture pollutants.
      (2)   BOARD.  The City of Vincennes Utility Services Board, if it has the
authority to operate the stormwater system. The Board of Works, if there is no
Utility Service Board or if the Utility Service Board does not have the
authority to operate the stormwater system.
      (3)   BUFFER STRIP.  An existing, variable width strip of vegetated land
intended to protect water quality and habitat.
      (4)   CAPACITY OF A STORM DRAINAGE FACILITY.  The maximum flow that can
be conveyed or stored by a storm drainage facility without causing damage to
public or private property.
      (5)   CATCH BASIN.  A chamber usually built at the curb line of a street
for the admission of surface water to a storm drain or subdrain, having at its
base a sediment sump designed to retain grit and detritus below the point of
overflow.
      (6)   CHANNEL.  A natural or artificial watercourse which periodically or
continuously contains moving/standing water or which forms a connecting link
between two bodies of water. It has a defined bed and banks, which serve to
confine the water.
      (7)   COMPENSATORY STORAGE.  An artificial volume of storage within a
floodplain used to offset loss of natural flood storage capacity when
artificial fill or structures are placed within the floodplain.
      (8)   CONDUIT. A device to convey water runoff or drainage flow.
      (9)   CONTIGUOUS.  Adjoining, or in actual contact with.
      (10)   CONSTRUCTED WETLAND.  A man-made shallow pool that creates growing
conditions suitable for wetland vegetation and is designed to maximize
pollutant removal.
      (11)   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY.  Land disturbing activities, and land
disturbing activities associated with the construction of infrastructure and
structures. This term does not include routine ditch or road maintenance or
minor landscaping projects.
      (12)   CONSTRUCTION SITE ACCESS.  A stabilized stone surface at all
points of ingress or egress to a project site, for the purpose of capturing and
detaining sediment carried by tires of vehicles or other equipment entering or
exiting the project site.
      (13)   CONTOUR.  An imaginary line on the surface of the earth connecting
points of the same elevation.
      (14)   CONTRACTOR or SUBCONTRACTOR.  An individual or company hired by
the project site or individual lot owner, their agent, or the individual lot
operator to perform services on the project site.
      (15)   CONVEYANCE. Any structural method for transferring stormwater
between at least two points. The term includes piping, ditches, swales, curbs,
gutters, catch basins, channels, storm drains, and roadways.
      (16)   CROSS SECTION. A graph or plot of ground elevation across a stream
valley or a portion of it, usually along a line perpendicular to the stream or
direction of flow.
      (17)   CULVERT.  A closed conduit used for the conveyance of surface
drainage water under a roadway, railroad, canal or other impediment.
      (18)   DE-CHLORINATED SWIMMING POOL DISCHARGE. Chlorinated water that has
either sat idle for seven days following chlorination prior to discharge to the
MS4 conveyance, or, by analysis, does  not contain detectable concentrations
(less than five-hundredths milligram per liter) of chlorinated residual.
      (19)   DEPARTMENT. The Wastewater Department.
      (20)   DETENTION. Managing stormwater runoff by temporary holding and
controlled release.
      (21)   DETENTION BASIN.  A stormwater control facility constructed or
modified to restrict the flow of stormwater to a prescribed maximum rate, and
to concurrently detain the excess waters resulting from development. This
facility has no permanent water pool during inter-storm periods.
      (22)   DETENTION STORAGE.  The temporary detaining or storage of
stormwater in storage basins, underground chambers, in streets, parking lots,
school yards, parks, open spaces, or other areas under predetermined and
controlled conditions, with the rate of drainage released therefrom regulated
by appropriately installed devices.
      (23)   DETRITUS. Dead or decaying organic matter; generally contributed
to stormwater as fallen leaves and sticks or as dead aquatic organisms.
      (24)   DEVELOPER.  Any person financially responsible for construction
activity, or an owner of property who sells or leases, or offers for sale or
lease, any lots in a subdivision.
      (25)   DEVELOPMENT OR DEVELOPED LANDS.  The activities that result in a
change of land use or an area where a change to a more intensive land use has
occurred or migration from a less intense to more intense land use. This
activity commonly results in increased runoff and peak discharge.
      (26)   DISCHARGE.  Usually the rate of water flow. A volume of fluid
passing a point per unit time commonly expressed as cubic feet per second,
cubic meters per second, gallons per minute, or millions of gallons per day.
      (27)   DISPOSAL.  The discharge, deposit, injection, spilling, leaking,
or placing of any solid waste or hazardous waste into or on any land or water
so that the solid waste or hazardous waste, or any constituent of the waste,
may enter the environment, be emitted into the air, or be discharged into any
waters, including groundwaters.
      (28)   DITCH.  A man-made, open drainageway in or into which excess
surface water or groundwater drained from land, stormwater runoff, or
floodwaters flow either continuously or intermittently.
      (29)   DRAIN.  A buried slotted or perforated pipe or other conduit
(subsurface drain) or a ditch (open drain) for carrying off surplus groundwater
or surface water.
      (30)   DRAINAGE. The removal of excess surface water or groundwater from
land by means of ditches or subsurface drains. Also see NATURAL DRAINAGE.
      (31)   DRAINAGE AREA. The area that contributes runoff to a point of
interest, or design point, during a rainfall event; i.e., a watershed or
catchment area.
      (32)   DRAINAGEWAY.  A natural or artificial stream, closed conduit, or
depression that carries surface water. This term is used as a neutral term
applying to all types of drains and watercourses, whether man-made or natural.
      (33)   DURATION. The time period of a rainfall event.
      (34)   DWELLING UNIT. A building or structure, or portion thereof, that
contains living facilities, including provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking
and sanitation, as required by local, state and federal code, for not more than
one family or congregate resident for 16 or fewer persons.
      (35)   ENVIRONMENT. The sum total of all the external conditions that may
act upon a living organism or community to influence its development or
existence.
      (36)   EQUIVALENT RESIDENT UNIT. One EQUIVALENT RESIDENT UNIT shall equal
2,800 square feet of impervious surface area, which shall be considered the
average impervious surface area for a residential property.
      (37)   EROSION.  The wearing away of the land by running water, waves,
weather cycles, ice or wind. The following terms are used to describe different
types of water EROSION:
         (a)   ACCELERATED EROSION. Erosion much more rapid than normal or
geologic erosion, primarily as a result of the activities of man.
         (b)   CHANNEL EROSION.  An erosion process whereby the volume and
velocity of flow wears away the bed and/or banks of a well-defined channel.
         (c)   GULLY EROSION. An erosion process whereby runoff water
accumulates in narrow channels and, over relatively short periods, removes the
soil to considerable depths, ranging from one to two feet to as much as 75
to100 feet.
         (d)   RILL EROSION. An erosion process in which numerous small
channels only several inches deep are formed; occurs mainly on recently
disturbed and exposed soils.
         (e)   SPLASH EROSION. The spattering of small soil particles caused by
the impact of raindrops on wet soils; the loosened and spattered particles may
or may not be subsequently removed by surface runoff.
         (f)   SHEET EROSION. The gradual removal of a fairly uniform layer of
soil from the land surface by runoff water.
      (38)   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.  A practice, or a combination of
practices, to minimize sedimentation by first reducing or eliminating erosion
at the source and then, as necessary, trapping sediment to prevent it from
being discharged from or within a project site.
      (39)   FILTER STRIP.  Usually a long, relatively narrow area (usually 20
to 75 feet wide) of undisturbed or planted vegetation used near disturbed or
impervious surfaces to filter stormwater pollutants for the protection of
watercourses, reservoirs, or adjacent properties.
      (40)   FLOOD (or FLOODWATERS).  A general and temporary condition of
partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow,
the unusual and rapid accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any
source.
      (41)   FLOOD ELEVATION.  The elevation delineating the maximum level of
high waters for a flood of given return period and rainfall duration.
      (42)   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining the channel
which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory or 100-year
flood. Any normally dry land area that is susceptible to being inundated by
water from any natural source. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and
the floodway fringe districts.
      (43)   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of
the floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to
efficiently carry and discharge the peak flow of the regulatory flood of any
river or stream.
      (44)   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain lying outside the
floodway, which is inundated by the regulatory flood.
      (45)   FOOTING DRAIN.  A drain pipe installed around the exterior of a
basement wall foundation to relieve water pressure caused by high groundwater
elevation.
      (46)   GARBAGE.  All putrescible animal solid, vegetable solid, and
semisolid wastes resulting from the processing, handling, preparation, cooking,
serving, or consumption of food or food materials.
      (47)   GASOLINE OUTLET. An operating gasoline or diesel fueling facility
whose primary function is the resale of fuels. The term applies to facilities
that create 5,000 or more square feet of impervious surfaces, or generate an
average daily traffic count of 100 vehicles per 1,000 square feet of land area.
      (48)   GRADE.
         (a)   The inclination or slope of a channel, canal, conduit, or the
like, or natural ground surface, usually expressed in terms of the percentage
the vertical rise (or fall) bears to the corresponding horizontal distance.
         (b)   The finished surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of embankment,
or bottom of excavation; any surface prepared to a design elevation for the
support of construction, such as paving or the laying of a conduit.
         (c)   To finish the surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of
embankment, or bottom of excavation, or other land area to a smooth, even
condition.
      (49)   GRADING.  The cutting and filling of the land surface to a desired
slope or elevation.
      (50)   GRASS.  A member of the botanical family Graminae, characterized
by blade-like leaves that originate as a sheath wrapped around the stem.
      (51)   GROUNDWATER. Accumulation of underground water, natural or
artificial. The term does not include man-made underground storage or
conveyance structures.
      (52)   HABITAT. The environment in which the life needs of a plant or
animal are supplied.
      (53)   HYDROLOGIC UNIT CODE. A numeric United States Geologic Survey code
that corresponds to a watershed area. Each area also has a text description
associated with the numeric ordinance.
      (54)   HYDROLOGY.  The science of the behavior of water in the
atmosphere, on the surface of the earth, and underground. A typical hydrologic
study is undertaken to compute flow rates associated with specified flood
events.
      (55)   ILLICIT DISCHARGE.  Any discharge to a conveyance that is not
composed entirely of stormwater except naturally occurring floatables, such as
leaves or tree limbs.
      (56)   IMPACT AREAS.  Areas defined, listed and/or mapped by the Board
which are unlikely to be easily drained because of one or more factors
including but not limited to any of the following: soil type, topography, land
with no adequate drainage outlet, a floodway or floodplain, land within 75 feet
of the top of each bank of any regulated drain or within 75 feet from the
centerline of any regulated storm sewer or tile drain.
      (57)   IMPAIRED WATERS.  Waters that do not or are not expected to meet
applicable water quality standards, as included on IDEM's CWA Section 303(d)
List of Impaired Waters.
      (58)   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE.  Surfaces, such as pavement and rooftops,
which prevent the infiltration of stormwater into the soil.
      (59)   INDIVIDUAL BUILDING LOT. A single parcel of land within a multi-
parcel development.
      (60)   INDIVIDUAL LOT OPERATOR.  A contractor or subcontractor working on
an individual lot.
      (61)   INDIVIDUAL LOT OWNER. A person who has financial control of
construction activities for an individual lot.
      (62)   INFILTRATION.  Passage or movement of water into the soil.
INFILTRATION practices include any structural BMP designed to facilitate the
percolation of runoff through the soil to groundwater. Examples include
infiltration basins or trenches, dry wells, and porous pavement.
      (63)   INLET. An opening into a storm drain system for the entrance of
surface stormwater runoff, more completely described as a storm drain inlet.
      (64)   LAND SURVEYOR.  A person licensed under the laws of the State of
Indiana to practice land surveying.
      (65)   LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A plan, undertaken by a
single project site owner or a group of project site owners acting in concert,
to offer lots for sale or lease; where such land is contiguous, or is known,
designated, purchased or advertised as a common unit or by a common name, such
land shall be presumed as being offered for sale or lease as part of a LARGER
COMMON PLAN. The term also includes phased or other construction activity by a
single entity for its own use.
      (66)   LATERAL STORM SEWER.  A sewer that has inlets connected to it but
has no other upstream storm sewer connected. LATERAL STORM SEWERS connect to a
main storm sewer outlet.
      (67)   MANHOLE.  Storm sewer junction and maintenance structure through
which a person or equipment may enter to gain access to an underground storm
sewer or enclosed structure.
      (68)   MEASURABLE STORM EVENT.  A precipitation event that results in a
total measured precipitation accumulation equal to, or greater than, one-half
inch of rainfall.
      (69)   MS4 OPERATOR.  The person tasked with managing the MS4 area
activities covered by 327 IAC 15-13.
      (70)   MULCH.  A natural or artificial layer of plant residue or other
materials covering the land surface which conserves moisture, holds soil in
place, aids in establishing plant cover, and minimizes temperature
fluctuations.
      (71)   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4).  An MS4 meets all the
following criteria: (a) is a conveyance or system of conveyances owned by the
state, county, city, town, or other public entity; (b) discharges to waters of
the U.S.; (c) is designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater; (d)
is not a combined sewer; and (e) is not part of a Publicly Owned Treatment
Works (POTW).
      (72)   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM. A permit
developed by the USEPA through the Clean Water Act. In Indiana, the permitting
process has been delegated to IDEM. This permit covers aspects of municipal
stormwater quality.
      (73)   NATURAL DRAINAGE.  The flow patterns of stormwater runoff over the
land in its pre-development state.
      (74)   NON-RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. A parcel or property that is not a
residential property.
      (75)   NUTRIENT(S).
         (a)   A substance necessary for the growth and reproduction of
organisms.
         (b)   In water, those substances (chiefly nitrates and phosphates)
that promote growth of algae and bacteria.
      (76)   OFF-SITE.  Considered to be not on-site. Typically not under the
direct control or influence of the developer.
      (77)   ON-SITE.  Located within the controlled area of development.
      (78)   OPEN DRAIN. A natural watercourse or constructed open channel that
conveys drainage water.
      (79)   OPEN SPACE.  Any land area devoid of any disturbed or impervious
surfaces created by industrial, commercial, residential, agricultural, or other
man-made activities.
      (80)   OUTFALL. The point or location where storm runoff discharges from
a storm sewer or drain; also applies to the outfall sewer or channel which
carries the storm runoff to its point of OUTFALL.
      (81)   OUTLET. The point of water disposal from a stream, river, lake,
tidewater, or artificial drain.
      (82)   PEAK FLOW. The maximum rate of flow of stormwater at a given point
in a channel or conduit resulting from a particular storm or flood, commonly
recorded in cubic feet per second.
      (83)   PERMANENT STABILIZATION.  The establishment, at a uniform density
of 70% across the disturbed area, of vegetative cover or permanent non-erosive
material that will ensure the resistance of the soil to erosion, sliding, or
other movement.
      (84)   PERVIOUS.  Allowing movement of water.
      (85)   POINT SOURCE. Any discernible, confined, and discrete conveyance
including but not limited to any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well,
discrete fissure, or container from which pollutants are or may be discharged
(P.L. 92-500, Section 502[14]).
      (86)   PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person licensed under the laws of the
State of Indiana to practice professional engineering.
      (87)   PROJECT SITE.  The entire area on which construction activity is
to be performed.
      (88)   PROJECT SITE OWNER. The person required to submit a stormwater
permit application, and required to comply with the terms of this chapter,
including a developer or a person who has financial and operational control of
construction activities, and project plans and specifications, including the
ability to make modifications to those plans and specifications.
      (89)   RADIUS OF CURVATURE.  Length of radius of circle used to define a
curve.
      (90)   RAINFALL INTENSITY. The cumulative depth of rainfall occurring
over a given time period, normally expressed in inches per hour.
      (91)   REACH.  Any selected length of river, channel or storm sewer.
      (92)   RECREATIONAL WATERS. Most recreational activities within the MS4
area revolve around the Wabash River.
      (93)   REDEVELOPMENT. Alterations of a property that change a site or
building in such a way that there is disturbance of one acre or more of land.
The term does not include such activities as exterior remodeling.
      (94)   REFUELING AREA.  An operating gasoline or diesel fueling area
whose primary function is to provide fuel to equipment or vehicles.
      (95)   REGULATORY FLOOD.  The discharge or elevation associated with the
100-year flood as calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable to
and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known as the BASE
FLOOD.
      (96)   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. See FLOODWAY.
      (97)   RELEASE RATE.  The amount of stormwater released from a stormwater
control facility (typically a detention basin or retention pond) per unit of
time. This term is normally expressed in cubic feet per second.
      (98)   RESERVOIR.  A natural or artificially created pond, lake or other
space used for storage, regulation or control of water. May be either permanent
or temporary. The term is also used in the hydrologic modeling of storage
facilities.
      (99)   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. A parcel or property containing a single
building or structure intended for sleeping purposes and containing not more
than one dwelling unit.
      (100)   RETENTION. The storage of stormwater to prevent it from leaving
the development site. May be temporary or permanent.
      (101)   RETENTION BASIN OR POND. A stormwater control facility designed
to retain a permanent pool of water after having provided its planned detention
of runoff during a storm event, or one that has no outlet and discharges into
the soil with time.
      (102)   RETURN PERIOD. The average interval of time within which a given
rainfall event will be equaled or exceeded once. A flood having a RETURN PERIOD
of 100 years has a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded in any one year.
      (103)   RIPARIAN HABITAT. A land area adjacent to a waterbody that
supports animal and plant life associated with that waterbody.
      (104)   RIPARIAN ZONE.  Areas on and adjacent to the banks of a stream,
river, or pond, through which surface and subsurface hydrology connect
waterbodies with their adjacent uplands.
      (105)   RUNOFF. That portion of precipitation that flows from a drainage
area on the land surface, in open channels, or in stormwater conveyance
systems.
      (106)   RUNOFF CO-EFFICIENT. A decimal fraction relating the amount of
rain which appears as runoff and reaches the storm drain system to the total
amount of rain falling. A co-efficient of 0.5 implies that 50% of the rain
falling on a given surface appears as stormwater runoff.
      (107)   SEDIMENT.  Solid material (both mineral and organic) that is in
suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by
air, water, gravity, or ice and has come to rest on the earth's surface.
Material of soil and rock origin, transported, carried and deposited by water.
      (108)   SEDIMENTATION. The process that deposits soils, debris and other
unconsolidated materials either on the ground surfaces or in bodies of water or
watercourses.
      (109)   SITE.  The entire area included in the legal description of the
land on which land disturbing activity is to be performed.
      (110)   SLOPE.  Degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal,
measured as a numerical ratio or percent. Expressed as a ratio, the first
number is commonly the horizontal distance (run) and the second is the vertical
distance (rise) e.g., 2:1. However, the preferred method for designation of
slopes is to clearly identify the horizontal (H) and vertical (V) components
(length (L) and width (W) components for horizontal angles). Also note that
according to international standards (Metric), the slopes are presented as the
vertical or width component shown on the numerator (e.g., 1V:2H). Slope
expressions in this chapter follow the common presentation of slopes (e.g., 2:
1) with the metric presentation shown in parenthesis (e.g., (1V:2H)). SLOPES
can also be expressed in percents. SLOPES given in percents are always
expressed as (100*V/H) (e.g., a 2:1 (1V:2H) slope is a 50% slope).
      (111)   SOIL.  The unconsolidated mineral and organic material on the
immediate surface of the earth that serves as a natural medium for the growth
of land plants.
      (112)   SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT. A public organization
created under state law as a special-purpose district to develop and carry out
a program of soil, water, and related resource conservation, use, and
development within its boundaries. A subdivision of state government with a
local governing body, established under I.C. 14-32.
      (113)   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, debris, or other discarded
material.
      (114)   SPILL.  The unexpected, unintended, abnormal, or unapproved
dumping, leakage, drainage, seepage, discharge, or other loss of petroleum,
hazardous substances, extremely hazardous substances, or objectionable
substances. The term does not include releases to impervious surfaces when the
substance does not migrate off the surface or penetrate the surface and enter
the soil.
      (115)   SPILLWAY.  A waterway in or about a hydraulic structure, for the
passage or flow of water. A portion of a stormwater control facility designed
for the passage or flow of water.
      (116)   STILLING BASIN.  A water-filled basin used to dissipate energy of
flowing water.
      (117)   STORAGE DURATION.  The length of time that water may be stored in
any stormwater control facility, computed from the time water first begins to
be stored.
      (118)   STORM EVENT.  An estimate of the expected amount of precipitation
within a given period of time. For example, a ten-year frequency, 24-hour
duration storm event is a storm that has a 10% probability of occurring in any
one year. Precipitation is measured over a 24-hour period.
      (119)   STORM SEWER. A closed conduit for conveying collected stormwater,
while excluding sewage and industrial wastes. Also called a STORM DRAIN.
      (120)   STORMWATER. Water resulting from rain, melting or melted snow,
hail, or sleet.
      (121)   STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All means, natural or man-made, used
for conducting stormwater to, through or from a drainage area to any of the
following: conduits and appurtenant features, canals, channels, ditches,
storage facilities, swales, streams, culverts, streets and pumping stations.
      (122)   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A plan developed to
minimize the impact of stormwater pollutants resulting from construction
activities.
      (123)    STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN. A comprehensive written
document that addresses stormwater runoff quality.
      (124)   STORMWATER QUALITY MEASURE.  A practice, or a combination of
practices, to control or minimize pollutants associated with stormwater runoff.
      (125)   STORMWATER RUNOFF.  The water derived from rains falling within a
tributary basin, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in
channels or conduits.
      (126)   STORMWATER UTILITY FEE. The charge imposed by §
53.100.
      (127)   STRIP DEVELOPMENT. A multi-lot project where building lots front
on an existing road.
      (128)   SUBDIVISION.  The division of a parcel of land into two or more
lots, parcels, tracts, sites, units, plats, or interests for the purpose of
offer, sale, lease, transfer or development; either on an installment plan or
upon any and all other plans, terms, and conditions, including re-subdivision.
SUBDIVISION includes the division of land in any zoning district, whether by
deed, metes and bounds description, devise, intestate, lease, map, plat, survey
or other recorded instrument.
      (129)   SUBSURFACE DRAIN. A pervious backfield trench, usually containing
stone and perforated pipe, for intercepting groundwater or seepage.
      (130)   SURFACE RUNOFF.  Precipitation that flows onto the surfaces of
roofs, streets, the ground, and the like, and is not absorbed or retained by
that surface but collects and runs off.
      (131)   SWALE.  An elongated depression in the land surface that is at
least seasonally wet, is usually heavily vegetated, and is normally without
flowing water. SWALES conduct stormwater into primary drainage channels and may
provide some groundwater recharge.
      (132)   TEMPORARY STABILIZATION.  The covering of soil to ensure its
resistance to erosion, sliding, or other movement. The term includes vegetative
cover, anchored mulch, or other non-erosive material applied at a uniform
density of 70% across the disturbed area.
      (133)   TOPOGRAPHIC MAP.  Graphical portrayal of the topographic features
of a land area, showing both the horizontal distances between the features and
their elevations above a given datum.
      (134)   TOPOGRAPHY. The representation of a portion of the earth's
surface showing natural and man-made features of a given locality such as
rivers, streams, ditches, lakes, roads, buildings, and most importantly,
variations in ground elevations for the terrain of the area.
      (135)   TRIBUTARY. Contributing stormwater from upstream land areas.
      (136)   URBANIZATION.  The development, re-development, change or
improvement of any parcel of land consisting of one or more lots for
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, recreational, municipal, or
public utility purposes.
      (137)   VINCENNES LEVEE SYSTEM. All flood control works that provide
flood protection to the city. Includes the Brevoort Levee Project as determined
by the USACE.
      (138)   WATER QUALITY. A term used to describe the chemical, physical,
and biological characteristics of water, usually in respect to its suitability
for a particular purpose.
      (139)   WATER RESOURCES.  The supply of groundwater and surface water in
a given area.
      (140)   WATERBODY.  Any accumulation of water, surface, or underground,
natural or artificial, excluding water features designed and designated as
water pollution control facilities.
      (141)   WATERCOURSE.  Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or
man-made drainageway in or into which stormwater runoff or floodwaters flow
either regularly or intermittently.
      (142)   WATERSHED. The region drained by or contributing water to a
specific point that could be along a stream, lake or other stormwater
facilities. WATERSHEDS are often broken down into subareas for the purpose of
hydrologic modeling.
      (143)   WATERSHED AREA. All land and water within the confines of a
drainage divide. See also WATERSHED and DRAINAGE AREA.
      (144)   WETLANDS. Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water
or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that
under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically
adapted for life in saturated soil conditions.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06; Am. Ord. 4-2010, passed 5-24-10)
§ 53.006 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The Board shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the authorized enforcement
agency may be delegated in writing by the Board to qualified persons or
entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of the city .
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.007 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed as additional
requirements to minimum standards required by other city ordinances, and as
supplemental requirements to Indiana's Rule 5 regarding Stormwater Discharge
Associated with Construction Activity, (327 IAC 15-5), and Indiana's Rule 13
regarding Stormwater Runoff Associated with Municipal Separate Storm Sewer
System Conveyances (327 IAC 15-13). In case of conflicting requirements, the
most restrictive shall apply.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed as additional
requirements to minimum standards required by other local ordinances including,
but not limited to the Knox County Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance, the Knox
County Zoning Ordinance and the Knox County Subdivision Control Ordinance. If
the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with one another, or if they
conflict with provisions found in other local ordinances or regulations, the
more restrictive provision will control.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed as additional
requirements to any state or federal regulations that may apply to a given
development site. If the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with
regulations of the state or federal government, the more restrictive provision
shall control, to the extent permitted by law.
   (D)   This chapter is not intended to abrogate, annul, or otherwise
interfere with any private easement, agreement, covenant, restriction or other
legal private relationship. The Board is responsible for enforcing this
chapter; it does not enforce private agreements, easements, covenants or
restrictions.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.008 INTERPRETATION.
   Words and phrases in this chapter shall be construed according to their
common and accepted meanings, except that words and phrases defined in §
53.005, shall be construed according to the respective definitions given in
that section. Technical words and technical phrases that are not defined in
this chapter but which have acquired particular meanings in law or in technical
usage shall be construed according to such meanings.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.009 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared severable, and if any
court of competent jurisdiction should declare any part or provision of this
chapter invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not
affect any other part or provision of the chapter.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.010 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on historical records, engineering, and
scientific methods of study. Larger storms may occur or stormwater runoff
amounts may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land uses permitted will be free from stormwater damage. This
chapter shall not create liability on the part of City of Vincennes or any
officer, representative, or employee thereof, for any damage which may result
from reliance on this chapter or on any administrative decision lawfully made
there under.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS
§ 53.020 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This section shall apply to all discharges, including illegal dumping,
entering the storm drain system under the control of the city, regardless of
whether the discharge originates from developed or undeveloped lands, and
regardless of whether the discharge is generated from an active construction
site or a stabilized site. These discharges include flows from direct
connections to the storm drain system, illegal dumping, and contaminated
runoff.
   (B)   Stormwater runoff from agricultural, timber harvesting, and mining
activities is exempted from the requirements of this section unless determined
to contain pollutants not associated with such activities or in excess of
standard practices. Farm residences are not included in this exemption.
   (C)   Any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver,
or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the
authority of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the
discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver,
or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written
approval has been granted for the subject discharge to the storm drain system,
is also exempted from this section.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.021 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge to a MS4 conveyance, waterbody, directly or
indirectly, any substance other than stormwater or an exempted discharge. Any
person discharging stormwater shall effectively prevent pollutants from also
being discharged with the stormwater, through the use of best management
practices (BMPs).
   (B)   The city is authorized to require dischargers to implement pollution
prevention measures, utilizing BMPs, necessary to prevent or reduce the
discharge of pollutants into the city's stormwater drainage system.
   (C)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless whether the connection was permissible
under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of the connection.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.022 EXEMPTED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The following categories of non-stormwater discharges or flows are
exempted from the requirements of this section:
      (1)   Drinking water line flushing;
      (2)   Landscape irrigation;
      (3)   Diverted streamflows;
      (4)   Rising groundwaters;
      (5)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration;
      (6)   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater;
      (7)   Discharges from potable water sources;
      (8)   Foundation drains;
      (9)   Air conditioning condensation;
      (10)   Uncontaminated Irrigation water;
      (11)   Springs;
      (12)   Water from crawl space pumps;
      (13)   Footing drains;
      (14)   Residential and commercial lawn watering;
      (15)   Individual residential car washing;
      (16)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
      (17)   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges;
      (18)   Street wash water;
      (19)   Discharges from firefighting activities;
      (20)   Naturally introduced detritus (e.g. leaves and twigs).
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to improperly dispose of any
contaminant into the MS4. Contaminants include, but are not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Trash or debris;
      (2)   Petroleum products, including but not limited to oil, gasoline,
grease, fuel oil or hydraulic fluids;
      (3)   Antifreeze and other automotive products;
      (4)   Metals in either particulate or dissolved form;
      (5)   Flammable or explosive materials;
      (6)   Batteries of any kind;
      (7)   Paints, stains, resins, lacquers or varnishes;
      (8)   Pesticides, herbicides, or fertilizers;
      (9)   Steam cleaning wastes;
      (10)   Soaps, detergents or wastewater containing the like;
      (11)   Heated water;
      (12)   Animal waste, from domestic animals or from feeding lot
operations;
      (13)   Leaking sanitary sewers and connections that have remained
uncorrected for more than seven days;
      (14)   Recreational vehicle waste;
      (15)   Animal carcasses;
      (16)   Medical wastes;
      (17)   Collected lawn clippings, leaves or branches;
      (18)   Silt, sediment or gravel;
      (19)   Dyes;
      (20)   Washing of fresh concrete;
      (21)   Junk motor vehicles;
      (22)   Wastewater to storm drain system from the cleaning of gas
stations, auto repair garages or other types of auto repair facilities;
      (23)   Wastewater to the storm drain system from mobile auto washing,
steam cleaning, mobile carpet cleaning, and other mobile commercial and
industrial operations;
      (24)   Discharge from the washing or rinsing of restaurant mats, roof
vents, grease traps, garbage bins or cans in such a manner that causes non-
stormwater to enter the storm drain system; and
      (25)   Any hazardous material or waste not listed above.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.023 STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC MATERIAL.
   Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material within any
drainageway, or in its associated floodway or floodplain, is strictly
prohibited. Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material on active
construction sites must include adequate protection and/or containment so as to
prevent any such materials from entering any temporary or permanent stormwater
conveyance or drainageway.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.024 PRIVATE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE DUTIES.
   Every person owning property through which a drainageway passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the drainageway located
within their property boundaries, free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation,
and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard
the flow of water through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee
shall maintain existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a
watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard to the use,
function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.025 SPILL REPORTING.
   (A)   Any discharger who accidentally discharges into a water body any
substance other than stormwater or an exempted discharge shall immediately
inform the Vincennes Fire Department and Knox County Emergency Management
concerning the discharge. A written report concerning the discharge shall be
filed with the MS4 Operator by the discharger(s), within five days. The MS4
Operator is located at 301 Perdue Road, Vincennes, Indiana 47591. The written
report shall specify:
      (1)   The composition of the discharge and the cause thereof;
      (2)   The exact date, time, and estimated volume of the discharge;
      (3)   All measures taken to clean up the accidental discharge, and all
measures proposed to be taken to prevent any recurrence; and
      (4)   The name and telephone number of the person making the report, and
the name of a person who may be contacted for additional information on the
matter.
   (B)   A properly reported accidental discharge shall be an affirmative
defense to a civil infraction proceeding brought under this chapter against a
discharger for such discharge. It shall not, however, be a defense to a legal
action brought to obtain an injunction, to obtain recovery of costs or to
obtain other relief because of or arising out of the discharge. A discharge
shall be considered properly reported only if the discharger complies with all
the requirements of this section. This requirement does not relieve discharger
from notifying other entities as required by state or federal regulations.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.026 INSPECTIONS AND MONITORING.
   (A)   Storm drainage system. The city's duly authorized representative(s)
will periodically inspect the portion of the storm drainage system under the
city's control, in an effort to detect and eliminate illicit connections and
discharges into the system. This inspection will include a screening of
discharges from outfalls connected to the system in order to determine if
prohibited flows are being conveyed into the storm drainage system. It could
also include spot testing of waters contained in the storm drainage system
itself to detect the introduction of pollutants into the system by means other
than a defined outfall, such as dumping or contaminated sheet runoff.
   (B)   Potential polluters.  If, as a result of the storm drainage system
inspection, a discharger is suspected of an illicit discharge, the city may
inspect and/or obtain stormwater samples from stormwater runoff facilities of
the subject discharger, to determine compliance with the requirements of this
chapter. Upon request, the discharger shall allow the city's duly authorized
representative(s) bearing proper credentials and identification to enter upon
the premises of the discharger at all hours necessary for the purposes of such
inspection or sampling. The city's duly authorized representative(s) may place
on the discharger's property, the equipment or devices used for such sampling
or inspection. Identified illicit connections or discharges shall be subject to
enforcement action as described in §§
53.080 through
53.085.
   (C)   New development and re-development. Following approval of final
stormwater plans and following the final completion of construction and the
receipt of as-built drawings by the city, new development and re-development
sites shall be inspected by the city's duly authorized representative(s). This
inspection will be to verify all on-site stormwater conveyances and connections
to the storm drainage system are in compliance with this section.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION FOR CONSTRUCTION SITES
§ 53.040 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The city will require a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP),
which includes erosion and sediment control measures and materials handling
procedures, to be submitted as part of the construction plans and
specifications. Any project located within city that includes clearing,
grading, excavation, and other land disturbing activities, resulting in the
disturbance of one acre or more of total land area, is subject to the
requirements of this section. This includes both new development and re-
development. This section also applies to disturbances of less than one acre of
land that are part of a larger common plan of development or sale if the larger
common plan will ultimately disturb one or more acres of land, within the MS4
area. Section
53.042 provides guidelines for calculating land disturbance.
   (B)   The requirements under this section do not apply to the following
activities:
      (1)   Agricultural land disturbing activities; or
      (2)   Forest harvesting activities.
   (C)   The requirements under this section do not apply to the following
activities, provided other applicable state permits contain provisions
requiring immediate implementation of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 IAC 10.
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34.
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management under
329 IAC 10 that contains equivalent stormwater requirements, including the
expansion of landfill boundaries and construction of new cells either within or
outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
   (D)   For an individual lot where land disturbance is expected to be one
acre or more, the individual lot owner must complete their own notice of intent
letter, apply for a stormwater permit from the city, and ensure that a
sufficient construction and Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan is completed
and submitted; regardless of whether the individual lot is part of a larger
permitted project site.
   (E)   An individual lot with land disturbance less than one acre, located
within a larger permitted project site, is considered part of the larger
permitted project site, and the individual lot operator must comply with the
terms and conditions of the stormwater permit approved for the larger project
site. The stormwater permit application for the larger project site must
include detailed erosion and sediment control measures for individual lots.
These individual lots are not required to submit their own stormwater permit
application, but must obtain a stormwater review approval prior to receiving a
building permit. It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to
complete a stormwater permit application and ensure that a sufficient
construction plan is completed and submitted to the city.
   (F)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to ensure
compliance with this chapter during the construction activity and
implementation of the construction plan, and to notify the city with a
sufficient notice of termination letter upon completion of the project and
stabilization of the site. However, all persons engaging in construction and
land disturbing activities on a permitted project site meeting the
applicability requirements must comply with the requirements of this section
and this chapter.
   (G)   Finally, any construction project which has had its drainage plan
approved by the city prior to the effective date of this chapter shall be
exempt from all requirements of this chapter that are in excess of the
requirements of chapter in effect at the time of approval.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.041 POLICY ON STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION.
   Effective stormwater pollution prevention on construction sites is dependent
on a combination of preventing movement of soil from its original position
(erosion control), intercepting displaced soil prior to entering a waterbody
(sediment control), and proper on-site materials handling. The developer must
submit a SWPPP with detailed erosion and sediment control plans to the city, as
well as a narrative describing materials handling and storage, and construction
sequencing. The following principles apply to all land-disturbing activities
and should be considered in the preparation of a Stormwater Pollution
Prevention Plan within the city.
   (A)   Minimize the potential for soil erosion by designing a development
that fits the topography and soils of the site. Deep cuts and fills in areas
with steep slopes should be avoided wherever possible, and natural contours
should be followed as closely as possible.
   (B)   Existing natural vegetation should be retained and protected wherever
possible. Areas immediately adjacent (within 35 feet of top of bank) to
watercourses and lakes also should be left undisturbed wherever possible.
Unvegetated areas or vegetated areas with less than 70% cover that are with
measures appropriate for the season to reduce erosion potential. Alternative
measures to site stabilization may be acceptable if the project site owner or
their representative can demonstrate they have implemented and maintained
erosion and sediment control measures adequate to prevent sediment discharge
from the inactive area.
   (C)   All activities on a site should be conducted in a logical sequence so
that the smallest practical area of land will be exposed for the shortest
practical period of time during development.
   (D)   The length and steepness of designed slopes should be minimized to
reduce erosion potential. Drainage channels and swales must be designed and
adequately protected so that their final gradients and resultant velocities
will not cause erosion in the receiving channel or at the outlet.
   (E)   Sediment-laden water which otherwise would flow from the project site
shall be treated by erosion and sediment control measures appropriate to
minimize sedimentation. A stable construction site access shall be provided at
all points of construction traffic ingress and egress to the project site.
   (F)   Appropriate measures shall be implemented to prevent wastes or unused
building materials, including, garbage, debris, packaging material, fuels and
petroleum products, hazardous materials or wastes, cleaning wastes, wastewater,
concrete truck washout, and other substances from being carried from a project
site by runoff or wind. Identification of areas where concrete truck washout is
permissible must be clearly posted at appropriate areas of the site. Wastes and
unused building materials shall be managed and disposed of in accordance with
all applicable state statutes and regulations. Proper storage and handling of
materials such as fuels or hazardous wastes, and spill prevention and cleanup
measures shall be implemented to minimize the potential for pollutants to
contaminate surface or groundwater or degrade soil quality.
   (G)   Public or private roadways shall be kept cleared of accumulated
sediment that is a result of runoff or tracking. Bulk clearing of accumulated
sediment shall not include flushing the area with water. Cleared sediment shall
be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that is in accordance with all
applicable statutes and regulations.
   (H)   Collected runoff leaving a project site must be either discharged
directly into a well-defined, stable receiving channel, or diffused and
released to adjacent property with out causing an erosion or pollutant problem
to the adjacent property owner.
   (I)   Natural features, including wetlands, shall be protected from
pollutants associated with stormwater runoff.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.042 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   In calculating the total area of land disturbance, for the purposes of
determining applicability of this section to the project, the following
guidelines should be used:
      (1)   Off-site construction activities that provide services (for
example, road extensions, sewer, water, and other utilities) to a land
disturbing project site, must be considered as a part of the total land
disturbance calculation for the project site, when the activity is under the
control of the project site owner.
      (2)   Strip developments will be considered as one project site and must
comply with this section unless the total combined disturbance on all
individual lots is less than one acre and is not part of a larger common plan
of development or sale.
      (3)   To determine if multi-lot project sites are regulated by this
chapter, the area of land disturbance shall be calculated by adding the total
area of land disturbance for improvements, such as, roads, utilities, or common
areas, and the expected total disturbance on each individual lot, as determined
by the following:
         (a)   For a single-family residential project site where the lots are
one-half acre or more, one-half acre of land disturbance must be used as the
expected lot disturbance.
         (b)   For a single-family residential project site where the lots are
less than one half acre in size, the total lot must be calculated as being
disturbed.
         (c)   To calculate lot disturbance on all other types of projects
sites, such as industrial and commercial projects, a minimum of one acre of
land disturbance must be used as the expected lot disturbance, unless the lots
are less than one acre in size, in which case the total lot must be calculated
as being disturbed.
   (B)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of
all stormwater pollution prevention measures for construction sites shall meet
the design criteria, standards, and specifications outlined in the Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual or the Technical Standards. The methods and
procedures included in these two references are in keeping with the above
stated policy and meet the requirements of IDEM's Rule 5.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.043 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Following approval of the stormwater management permit by the city and
commencement of construction activities, the city's duly authorized
representative(s) has the authority to conduct inspections of the site to
insure full compliance with the provisions of this section, the Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual or the Technical Standards, and the terms and
conditions of the approved permit.
   (B)   A self-monitoring program must be implemented by the project site
owner to insure the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan is working
effectively. An inspector, approved by the Board, shall perform a written
evaluation of the project site by the end of the next business day following
each measurable storm event. If there are no measurable storm events within a
given week, the site should be monitored at least once in that week. Weekly
inspections shall continue until the entire site has been stabilized and a
Notice of Termination has been issued. The inspector should look at the
maintenance of existing stormwater pollution prevention measures, including
erosion and sediment control measures, drainage structures, and construction
materials storage/containment facilities, to ensure they are functioning
properly. The inspector should also identify additional measures, beyond those
originally identified in the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan, necessary to
remain in compliance with all applicable statutes and regulations.
   (C)   The resulting evaluation reports must include the name of the
individual performing the evaluation, the date of the evaluation, problems
identified at the project site, and details of maintenance, additional
measures, and corrective actions recommended and completed.
   (D)   The Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan shall serve as a guideline
for stormwater quality, but should not be interpreted to be the only basis for
implementation of stormwater quality measures for a project site. The project
site owner is responsible for implementing, in accordance with this section,
all measures necessary to adequately prevent polluted stormwater runoff.
Recommendations by the inspector for modified stormwater quality measures
should be implemented and may be required if concurred by the Board.
   (E)   Although self-monitoring reports do not need to be submitted to city,
the city has the right to request complete records of maintenance and
monitoring activities involving stormwater pollution prevention measures. All
evaluation reports for the project site must be made available to city, in an
organized fashion, within 48 hours of a request.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT FOR POST-CONSTRUCTION
§ 53.050 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §§
53.040 through
53.043, the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan, which is to be submitted to
the city as part of the stormwater management permit application, must also
include post-construction stormwater quality measures. These measures are
incorporated as a permanent feature into the site plan and are left in place
following completion of construction activities to continuously filter
stormwater runoff from the stabilized site. Any project located within the city
that includes clearing, grading, excavation, and other land disturbing
activities, resulting in the disturbance of one acre or more of total land
area, is subject to the requirements of this section. This includes both new
development and re-development, and disturbances of less than one acre of land
that are part of a larger common plan of development or sale if the larger
common plan will ultimately disturb one or more acres of land, within the MS4
area.
   (B)   The requirements under this section do not apply to the following
activities:
      (1)   Agricultural land disturbing activities;
      (2)   Forest harvesting activities;
      (3)   Construction activities associated with a single-family residential
dwelling disturbing less than five acres, when the dwelling is not part of a
larger common plan of development or sale;
      (4)   Single-family residential developments consisting of four or less
lots;
      (5)   A single-family residential strip development where the developer
offers for sale or lease without land improvements and the project is not part
of a larger common plan of development of sale; or
      (6)   Individual building lots within a larger permitted project.
   (C)   The requirements under this section do not apply to the following
activities, provided other applicable state permits contain provisions
requiring immediate implementation of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 IAC 10.
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34.
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management under
329 IAC 10 that contains equivalent stormwater requirements, including the
expansion of landfill boundaries and construction of new cells either within or
outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
   (D)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete a
stormwater permit application and ensure that a sufficient construction plan is
completed and submitted to the city. It will be the responsibility of the
project site owner to ensure proper construction and installation of all
stormwater BMPs in compliance with this chapter and with the approved
stormwater management permit, and to notify the city with a sufficient Notice
of Termination letter upon completion of the project and stabilization of the
site. However, all eventual property owners of stormwater quality facilities
meeting the applicability requirements must comply with the requirements of
this section and this chapter.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.051 POLICY ON STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   It is recognized that developed areas, as compared to undeveloped
areas, generally have increased imperviousness, decreased infiltration rates,
increased runoff rates, and increased concentrations of pollutants such as
fertilizers, herbicides, greases, oil, salts and other pollutants. As new
development and re-development continues in the city measures must be taken to
intercept and filter pollutants from stormwater runoff prior to reaching
regional creeks, streams, and rivers in order to preserve fishable and
swimmable conditions. Through the use of Best Management Practices (BMPs),
stormwater runoff will be filtered and harmful amounts of sediment, nutrients
and contaminants will be removed. The city has adopted a policy that the
control of stormwater quality will be based on the management of Total
Suspended Solids (TSS).
   (B)   The project site owner must submit to the city, a Stormwater Pollution
Prevention Plan (SWPPP) that would show placement of appropriate BMP(s) from a
pre-approved list of BMPs specified in the city's Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual or the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual. The noted BMPs must
be designed, constructed, and maintained according to guidelines provided or
referenced in the city's Stormwater Technical Standards Manual or the Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual. Practices other than those specified in the pre-
approved list may be utilized. However, the burden of proof, as to whether the
performance (minimum 80% TSS removal) and ease of maintenance of such practices
will be according to guidelines provided in the city's Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual or the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual, would be placed with
the applicant.
   (C)   Gasoline outlets and refueling areas must install appropriate
practices to reduce lead, copper, zinc, and polyaromatic hydrocarbons in
stormwater runoff. These requirements will apply to all new facilities and
existing facilities that replace their tanks.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.052 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Calculation of land disturbance should follow the guidelines discussed
in §
53.042.
   (B)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of
all stormwater quality management measures, or BMPs shall meet the design
criteria, standards, and specifications outlined in the Indiana Stormwater
Quality Manual or the Technical Standards. The methods and procedures included
in these two references are in keeping with the above stated policy and meet
the requirements of IDEM's Rule 13.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.053 EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   All stormwater quality management systems, including detention or retention
basins, filter strips, pocket wetlands, in-line filters, infiltration systems,
conveyance systems, structures and appurtenances located outside of the right-
of-way shall be incorporated into permanent easements.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.054 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   After the approval of the stormwater management permit by the city and
the commencement of construction activities, the city's duly authorized
representative(s) has the authority to conduct inspections of the work being
done to ensure full compliance with the provisions of this section, the Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual or the Technical Standards, and the terms and
conditions of the approved permit.
   (B)   Stormwater quality facilities shall be maintained in good condition,
in accordance with the operation and maintenance procedures submitted as part
of the stormwater permit application. These procedures shall not be
subsequently altered, revised or replaced except in accordance with the
approved stormwater permit, or in accordance with approved amendments or
revisions in the permit. Following construction completion, inspection of
stormwater quality facilities shall be the responsibility of the city. The
maintenance of the stormwater quality facilities shall remain the
responsibility of the facility owner unless specifically accepted by the city.
   (C)   All public and privately owned stormwater quality facilities will be
inspected by representatives of the project site owner until the project is
complete and a Notice of Termination has been issued. Inspection frequency
shall follow specifications included in the operation and maintenance submitted
as part of the permit application. Optional inspection checklists for some of
the more common BMPs can be found in Appendix B of the Technical Standards.
Following project completion, city assumes responsibility for having annual
inspections of the stormwater quality facilities completed. The inspections
will follow the operation and maintenance procedures included in the permit
application for each specific BMP. The inspection will cover physical
conditions, available water quality volume capacity and the operational
condition of key facility elements. Noted deficiencies and recommended
corrective action will be included in an inspection report. If deficiencies are
found during the inspection, the owner of the stormwater quality facility will
be notified by city and will be required to take all necessary measures to
correct such deficiencies. If the owner fails to correct the deficiencies
within the allowed time period, as specified in the notification letter, the
city will undertake the work and collect from the owner using lien rights if
necessary.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
STORMWATER QUANTITY MANAGEMENT
§ 53.060 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It is recognized that smaller streams, storm sewers, culverts, and
drainage channels serving the city may not have sufficient capacity to receive
and convey stormwater runoff, resulting when land use changes from open or
agricultural use to a more urbanized use, or when redeveloped to a more dense
land use. It is further recognized that deposits of sediment from developments
during and after construction can reduce capacities of storm sewers, culverts
and drainage systems and result in damages to receiving lakes and streams.
   (B)   Therefore, it shall be the policy of the city that the storage and
controlled release of stormwater runoff shall be generally required of all new
development, any re-development and other new construction in the city. The
release rate of stormwater from developed lands shall not exceed the release
rate from the land area in its present land use.
   (C)   The Board is authorized, but is not required, to classify certain
geographical areas as Impact Drainage Areas and to enact and promulgate
regulations, which are generally applied thereto. In determining Impact
Drainage Areas, the Board shall consider such factors as topography, soil type,
and capacity of existing regulated drains and distance from adequate drainage
facility. The following areas shall be designated as Impact Drainage Areas,
unless good reason for not including them is presented to and approved by the
Board:
      (1)   A floodway or floodplain as designated by the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources.
      (2)   Land within 75 feet of each bank of any regulated drain.
      (3)   Land within 75 feet of the centerline of any regulated drain tile.
      (4)   City Ditch (both open and enclosed pipe sections).
      (5)   Kelso Creek.
      (6)   Mantle Ditch.
   (D)   Land where there is not an adequate outlet (taking into consideration
the capacity and depth of the outlet) may be designated as an Impact Drainage
Area by resolution of the Board. Special requirements for development within
any Impact Drainage Area shall be included in the resolution.
   (E)   Any development for agricultural use, or residential use of two units
or less, or other minor developments as determined by the city, may be waived
or exempted from the provisions of this chapter, but must comply with the
requirements and standards outlined in all other local ordinances and
applicable laws. The Board shall also be authorized to grant exemptions from
any and all requirements of this chapter at its discretion.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.061 STORMWATER CONTROL POLICY.
   (A)   The city understands that many streams and drainage channels serving
the city may not have sufficient capacity to receive and convey stormwater
runoff resulting from existing and continued urbanization. Accordingly, the
storage and controlled release rate of excess stormwater runoff shall be
generally required for any development, redevelopment and new construction
located within the city.
   (B)   The release rate of stormwater from development, redevelopment, and
new construction shall not exceed the stormwater runoff rate from the land area
in its pre-developed condition. The developer must submit to the city, detailed
computations of runoff before and after development, redevelopment or new
construction that demonstrate that the runoff rate will not be increased.
   (C)   These computations must show that the peak runoff release rate after
development for the 100-year return period storm must not exceed the ten-year
return period pre-development peak runoff rate. Furthermore, the peak runoff
rate after development for the ten-year return period storm of critical
duration must not exceed the two-year return period pre-development peak runoff
rate.
   (D)   Special cases may exist where the detention of runoff from a
development would be detrimental to the overall watershed and drainage outfall.
The Board, after thorough investigation and evaluation, may waive or reduce the
requirement of controlled runoff for a specific development site if hydrologic
modeling of the watershed and receiving stream prove that controlled runoff is
not needed. It shall be the responsibility of the developer to have such
modeling prepared and submitted to the city for approval.
   (E)   Special cases may also exist where the downstream drainage capacity
may be limited in such a way that strict adherence to this policy may result in
undue property damage. In these cases, the Board may further restrict the peak
runoff release rate for storms up to and including the 100-year return period
storm.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
FEES AND ASSURANCES
§ 53.070 FEES.
   The city shall have the authority to collect fees to cover costs incurred by
the city with respect to the review and site inspections of all drainage
submittals, plans, and/or construction plans and accompanying information and
data associated with this chapter.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.071 ASSURANCES.
   (A)   As a condition of approval and issuance of a stormwater permit, the
city shall require the applicant to provide assurance in form of a performance
bond, certified check, irrevocable letters of credit, or certificate of deposit
before construction begins. If posting an assurance in accordance with the Knox
County Subdivision Control Ordinance, § 53.52, the amount of the assurance must
be made out to the Area Plan Commission, and must include 100% of the estimated
cost of implementing measures required by §§ 
53.040 through
53.043, §§
53.050 through
53.054 and §§
53.060 and
53.061. If no assurance is required under the Knox County Subdivision Control
Ordinance, § 53.52, this chapter still requires an assurance, made out to the
city, for an amount equal to 100% of the total costs of implementing measures
required by §§
53.040 through
53.043, §§
53.050 through
53.054 and §§
53.060 and
53.061. If, following assurance made to the city, the Area Plan Commission
determines assurance is required by the Subdivision Ordinance, the assurance is
transferable.
   (B)   The assurance will guarantee a good faith execution of the Stormwater
Drainage Plan, the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan, the Stormwater Quality
Management Plan, and any permit conditions. Said costs shall be for the
installation and continuous monitoring and maintenance of erosion control
measures and the construction and continuous monitoring and maintenance of
storm drainage infrastructure, detention/retention facilities, and stormwater
quality BMPs, as regulated under this chapter.
   (C)   The property owner, developer, or contractor shall be required to file
a three-year maintenance bond or other acceptable guarantee with the city,
prior to acceptance, in an amount not to exceed 10% of the cost of the
stormwater drainage system located outside the public road right-of-ways, and
in a form satisfactory to the city's attorney in order to assure that such
stormwater system installation was done according to standards of good
workmanship, that the materials used in the construction and installation were
of good quality and construction, and that such project was done in accordance
with the approved plans, and this chapter. The bond or other acceptable
guarantee shall be in effect for a period of three years after the date of the
final project approval by the city.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.080 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, compliance with the
requirements set forth in the city’s and Knox County Zoning Ordinance(s) is
also necessary. Compliance with all applicable ordinances of City of Vincennes
and Knox County, as well as with applicable State of Indiana statues and
regulations shall also be required. The Board shall be responsible for
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. Violations of the requirements
of this chapter are subject to the penalties listed below.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.081 STOP WORK ORDER.
   (A)   In addition to the penalties listed in §
53.999, if construction activities are conducted contrary to the provisions of
this chapter or approved final stormwater management plans, the city may order
the work stopped, by notice, in writing, served on any person engaged in the
doing or causing of such work to be done. Any such persons shall forthwith stop
such work until authorized by the city to proceed with the work. The city may
also undertake or cause to be undertaken, any necessary or advisable protective
measures to prevent violations of this chapter or to avoid or reduce the
effects of noncompliance herewith. The cost of any such protective measures
shall be the responsibility of the owner of the property upon which the work is
being done, and the responsibility of any person carrying out or participating
in the work.
   (B)   Any person who neglects or fails to comply with a stop work order
shall, upon conviction, be responsible for a civil infraction and subject to a
fine of not less than $100 for a first offense, and not less than $500 for a
subsequent offense, plus damages, expenses, and costs. Each day such violation
occurs or continues shall be deemed a separate offense and shall make the
violator liable for the imposition of a fine for each day.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.082 FAILURE TO COMPLY OR COMPLETE.
   In addition to any other remedies, should any person fail to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, the city may, after the giving of reasonable notice
and opportunity for compliance, have the necessary work done, and the owner
shall be obligated to promptly reimburse the city for all costs of such work.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.083 SUSPENSION OF ACCESS TO THE STORM DRAIN SYSTEM.
   (A)   Suspension due to emergency situations. The city's duly authorized
representative(s) may, without prior notice, suspend storm drain system
discharge access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent and
substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons,
or to the storm drain system, or to waters of the United States. If the
violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the
authorized enforcement agency may take such steps as deemed necessary to
prevent or minimize damage to the storm drain system or waters of the United
States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the storm drain system in violation of this chapter may have
their storm drain system access terminated if such termination would abate or
reduce an illicit discharge. The city's duly authorized representative(s) will
notify a violator of the proposed termination of its MS4 access. The violator
may petition the Board for a reconsideration and hearing.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.084 CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such other
lawful action as may be necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. All costs
connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible. Costs
include, but are not limited to, repairs to the storm drain system made
necessary by the violation, as well as those penalties levied by the USEPA or
IDEM for violation of the city's NPDES permit, attorney fees, and other costs
and expenses.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
§ 53.085 APPEALS.
   Any person to whom any provision of this chapter has been applied may appeal
in writing, not later than 30 days after the action or decision being appealed
from, to the Board the action or decision whereby any such provision was so
applied. Such appeal shall identify the matter being appealed, and the basis
for the appeal. The Board shall consider the appeal and make a decision whereby
it affirms, rejects or modifies the action being appealed. In considering any
such appeal, the Board may consider the recommendations of the MS4 Operator,
the City Engineer, or other persons having knowledge of the matter. In
considering any such appeal, the Board may grant a variance from the terms of
this chapter to provide relief, in whole or in part, from the action being
appealed, but only upon finding that the following requirements are satisfied:
   (A)   The application of the chapter provisions being appealed will present
or cause practical difficulties for a development or development site;
provided, however, that practical difficulties shall not include the need for
the developer to incur additional reasonable expenses in order to comply with
the chapter; and
   (B)   The granting of the relief requested will not prevent the goals and
purposes of this chapter, nor result in less effective management of stormwater
runoff.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
STORMWATER UTILITY FEE
§ 53.100 STORMWATER UTILITY FEE; RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   A stormwater utility fee shall be imposed on each and every lot and
parcel of land within the city that directly or indirectly contributes to the
city's stormwater drainage system, and the stormwater utility fee shall be
assessed against the property owner thereof, who shall be considered the user
for purposes of this chapter.
   (B)   This stormwater utility fee is deemed reasonable and is necessary to
pay for the repair, replacement, planning, improvement, operation, regulation
and maintenance of the existing and future stormwater drainage system.
Stormwater utility fees shall be the ultimate responsibility of the property
owner, including all penalties, recording fees, attorneys' fees, interest,
court costs and other costs, as applicable. The Department shall develop and
promulgate policies and procedures to make determinations whether commonly-
owned, adjoining properties with separate plat or legal descriptions should be
treated as a single parcel of land for purposes of calculating the stormwater
utility fee for such properties.
(Ord. 4-2010, passed 5-24-10)
§ 53.101 DESIGN OF STORMWATER UTILITY FEE.
   The stormwater utility fee is designed to recover the cost of rendering
stormwater service to the users of the stormwater drainage system, and shall be
the basis for assessment of the stormwater utility fee. The stormwater utility
fee is established to maintain adequate fund reserves to provide for reasonably
expected variations in the cost of providing services, as well as variations in
the demand for services.
(Ord. 4-2010, passed 5-24-10)
§ 53.102 STORMWATER UTILITY FEE FOR RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
   The stormwater utility fee for a residential property shall be $3 per ERU
per month.
(Ord. 4-2010, passed 5-24-10)
§ 53.103 STORMWATER UTILITY FEE FOR NON-RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
   The stormwater utility fee for a non-residential property shall be assessed
on a monthly basis based on the impervious surface area of such property. The
square footage of the impervious surface area on a non-residential property
shall be divided by 2,800 square feet (i.e., one ERU), and the resulting ERU
shall be rounded in accordance with §
53.104. A non-residential property shall not have an ERU multiple of less than
one. The resulting ERU multiple shall then be multiplied by $3 to determine the
applicable monthly stormwater utility fee for the non-residential property.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, public rights-of-way and railroad rights-of-way
shall be exempt from the stormwater utility fee.
(Ord. 4-2010, passed 5-24-10)
§ 53.104 ROUNDING OF ERU AND STORMWATER UTILITY FEES.
   ERU multiples shall be rounded to the nearest tenth. The monthly stormwater
utility fees shall be rounded to the nearest whole cent.
(Ord. 4-2010, passed 5-24-10)
§ 53.105 PAYMENT AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Terms of payment. The stormwater utility fees described in §§
53.102 and
53.103 shall be due on the payment date set out on the bill. Stormwater utility
fees shall be billed semi-annually. It shall be a violation of this chapter to
fail to pay a bill for stormwater service when due. All bills for stormwater
services not paid on or before the due date, shall be subject to a collection
or deferred payment charge of 10% on the outstanding balance. Moving from one
location to another in no way absolves the user from the responsibility for any
unpaid charges incurred at a previous location.
   (B)   Bad check charge. Checks returned for insufficient funds will be
subject to reimbursement of the fee the banking institution charges the city
and an administration charge to be established by the Department not in excess
of the amount provided in state law. A customer submitting a bad check may be
prohibited from making future stormwater utility fee payments by check.
   (C)   Collection. Delinquent stormwater utility fees constitute a lien
against the property and may be collected, along with applied penalties,
recording fees and service charges, in accordance with the provisions of I.C.
36-9-23-32 and I.C. 36-9-23-33, as amended from time to time. Delinquent
stormwater utility fees may also be collected in a civil action along with
reasonable attorneys' fees and court costs.
(Ord. 4-2010, passed 5-24-10)
§ 53.106 APPEALS OF ERU DETERMINATION OF NON-RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   If, in the opinion of any non-residential property owner, the ERU
multiple assigned to the property of such owner is inaccurate, such property
owner may appeal such ERU determination by filing an appeal form prescribed by
the Board. The appeal form must be filed within 30 days after the date the
assessment notice or the bill is mailed or issued to the property owner.
Grounds for appeal include:
      (1)   Incorrect classification of the property;
      (2)   Errors in the square footage of the impervious surface area of the
property;
      (3)   Mathematical errors in calculating the fee to be applied to the
property; and
      (4)   Errors in the identification of the owner of a property subject to
the fee.
   (B)   If a property owner alleges an error under division (A)(2) of this
section, the request for correction must include a certification by a
professional engineer or land surveyor of the impervious surface area of the
property. Failure to comply with the provisions of this division shall be
grounds for denial of the request.
   (C)   A property owner must comply with all rules and procedures adopted by
the Board when submitting a request for an appeal and must provide all other
relevant information requested by the Board. The Board shall make a
determination within 45 days after receipt of the completed appeal form and all
other relevant information requested by the Board. The Board's decision on the
appeal shall be final.
(Ord. 4-2010, passed 5-24-10)
§ 53.107 CONSOLIDATION OF CONTIGUOUS PARCELS.
   (A)   The Board may consolidate commonly owned, adjoining properties with
separate plat or legal descriptions into a single parcel of land for purposes
of calculating the stormwater utility fee for such properties under this
chapter provided that:
      (1)   The parcels have the same specific land use.
      (2)   The parcels have the same ownership.
      (3)   The owner submits a "request for consolidation of contiguous
parcels" form as prescribed by the Board.
   (B)   The Board's decision on a request for consolidation of the parcels
shall be final.
(Ord. 4-2010, passed 5-24-10)
§ 53.108 STORMWATER FUND.
   All revenues earned and fees collected under this subchapter, including
interest earnings on any unused funds, shall be deposited in an account
entitled "City of Vincennes Stormwater Fund" and shall be subject to the
provisions of I.C. 36-9-23, as amended from time to time. Disbursements from
the Stormwater Fund shall be authorized by the USB. Such disbursements shall be
used exclusively for the operation, maintenance and improvement of the
stormwater drainage system and the Vincennes levee system. Funds from this
account shall not revert to any other city utilities or the General Fund of the
city and may not be transferred for any other purpose. To the extent that there
are outstanding revenue bonds of the city issued pursuant to the provisions of
I.C. 36-9-23, as amended from time to time, revenues deposited in the
Stormwater Fund shall be subject to the covenants contained in the ordinance or
ordinances authorizing such outstanding bonds.
(Ord. 4-2010, passed 5-24-10)
Cross-reference:
   Finance and revenue, see
Ch. 35
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found in violation of any provision of this chapter shall
be responsible for a civil infraction and subject to a fine of not less than
$100 for a first offense, and not less than $100 for a subsequent offense, plus
damages, expenses, and costs as may be imposed in the discretion of the court.
Each day such violation occurs or continues shall be deemed a separate offense
and shall make the violator liable for the imposition of a fine for each day.
The rights and remedies provided for in this section are cumulative and in
addition to any other remedies provided by law. An admission or determination
of responsibility shall not exempt the offender from compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who aids or abets a person in a violation of this chapter
shall be subject to the penalties provided in this section.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, "subsequent offense" means a violation
of the provisions of this chapter committed by the same person within 12 months
of a previous violation of the same provision of this chapter for which said
person admitted responsibility or was adjudicated to be responsible.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 6-12-06)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
         
72.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
         
73.   BICYCLES AND OTHER TOY VEHICLES
         
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Obedience to traffic code
   
70.03   Obedience to traffic officers
   
70.04   Application to drivers of government vehicles
   
70.05   Pushcarts or riding animals upon roadway
   
70.06   Authorized emergency vehicles
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Authority of Board of Public Works and Safety
   
70.21   Obedience to official traffic-control devices
   
70.22   Placement of traffic devices; legibility
   
70.23   Location of certain traffic-control signals
   
70.24   Designation of crosswalks, safety zones and traffic lanes
   
70.25   Play streets
   
70.26   Interference with official traffic-control devices
Accidents
   
70.40   Driver of vehicle to give notice of accident to Police Department
   
70.41   Report of accidents by police
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.55   Traffic Engineer; establishment
   
70.56   Enforcement of traffic laws by police officers
   
70.57   Authority to direct traffic
   
70.58   Emergency and experimental regulations
   
70.59   Annual traffic report
   
70.60   Accident and violation records
   
70.61   Forms for notifying violators; issuance; records
   
70.62   Procedure upon arrest
   
70.63   Failure to obey notice or summons
   
70.64   Disposition of fines and forfeitures
   
70.65   Impounding of vehicles; redemption
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public street in the city which:
      (1)   Is used primarily for the convenience of the owner of property
abutting thereon and of the persons dealing with him;
      (2)   Is abutted on both sides by property which is not customarily
designated by an official property number; or
      (3)   Has been declared an ALLEY by the Common Council.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department (fire
patrol), police vehicles and other ambulances and emergency vehicles of
municipal departments or public service corporations as are designated or
authorized by the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles or the Chief of Police of the
city.
   BICYCLE. Any foot-propelled vehicle irrespective of the number of wheels in
contact with the ground.
   BOARD OF WORKS. The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a street when
50% or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of 500 feet or more is
occupied by buildings in use for business.
   CROSSWALK. That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway; or any portion of a roadway at an intersection or
elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other
markings on the surface.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at or approximately at right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of that divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event that
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of those highways shall be regarded as a
separate intersection.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into three or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of a rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a tractor.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this traffic code, placed or erected by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic.
   PARK. When prohibited, the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
other than temporarily, for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association or
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Police Department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or make arrests for violations of
traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICTS. The territory contiguous to and including a street not
comprising a business district, when the property on that street for a distance
of 500 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or residences and
buildings in use for business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a street or highway improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel. In the event a highway includes two or
more separate roadways the term ROADWAY as used herein shall refer to any such
roadway separately but not to all roadways collectively.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDARD TIME or DAYLIGHT SAVING TIME. Certain hours as may be in current
use in the city.
   STOP. When required, complete cessation of movement.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   STOP, STOPPING or STANDING. When prohibited, any stopping or standing of a
vehicle whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police officer or
traffic-control sign or signal.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway or portion thereof at the entrances
to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by
law to stop before entering or crossing the same and when stop signs are
erected as provided in this traffic code.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any street for purposes
of travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
proceed.
   VEHICLE. every device in upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or draw upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
('71 Code, § 70.01) (Am. Ord. 1334, passed 11-2-66)
§ 70.02 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE.
   It is a violation for any person to do forbidden acts or fail to perform any
act required in this traffic code.
('71 Code, § 70.25)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.03 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC OFFICERS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or Fire Department official.
('71 Code, § 70.26)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.04 APPLICATION TO DRIVERS OF GOVERNMENT VEHICLES. 
   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States government, this state,
county or city, and no driver shall violate any of the provisions of this
traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in this traffic code or by state
statute.
('71 Code, § 70.02)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.05 PUSHCARTS OR RIDING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAY.  
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and
every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the
provisions of this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except
those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature can have no
application.
('71 Code, § 70.03)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.06 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this traffic code regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles as defined in
this traffic code except as follows:
   (A)   A driver, when operating any such vehicle in an emergency, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer, may:
      (1)   Park or stand notwithstanding the provisions of this traffic code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he does not endanger
life or property; or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions so long as he does not endanger life or property.
   (B)   Those exemptions hereinbefore granted in reference to the movement of
an authorized emergency vehicle shall apply only when the driver of that
vehicle sounds a siren, bell or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary
and the vehicle displays a lighted red lamp visible form the front as a warning
to others.
   (C)   The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, protect the driver of any
such vehicle from the consequences of his reckless disregard of the safety of
others.
('71 Code, § 70.04)
Penalty, see § 70.99
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 AUTHORITY OF BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall place and maintain traffic-
control signs, signals and devices when and as required under this traffic code
to make effective the provisions of this code, and may place and maintain any
additional traffic-control devices as they may deem necessary to regulate
traffic under the traffic code or under state law, or to guide or warn traffic.
('71 Code, § 71.01)
   (B)   One-way streets. Whenever any ordinance of the city designates any
one-way street or alley, the Board of Public Works and Safety shall place and
maintain signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective
unless those signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful
traffic movement shall be place at every intersection where movement of traffic
in the opposite direction is prohibited.
   (C)   Stop streets. Whenever any ordinance of this city designates and
describes a through street it shall be the duty of the Board of Public Works
and Safety to place and maintain a stop sign on each and every street
intersecting that through street or intersecting that portion thereof described
and designated as such by any ordinance of the city.
('71 Code, § 70.18)
Cross-reference;
   Erection of appropriate parking signs, see §
72.003
§ 70.21 OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with this
traffic code, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to the
exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this
traffic code.
('71 Code, § 71.02)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.22 PLACEMENT OF TRAFFIC DEVICES; LEGIBILITY.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged
violation an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section
does not state that signs are required, that section shall be effective even
though no signs are erected or in place.
('71 Code, § 71.03)
§ 70.23 LOCATION OF CERTAIN TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS. 
   Traffic-control signals shall be located at the intersections as provided in
Chapter 74, Schedule V.
('71 Code, § 71.07)
§ 70.24 DESIGNATION OF CROSSWALKS, SAFETY ZONES AND TRAFFIC LANES.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized to:
   (A)   Designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in its opinion
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at any
other place as it may deem necessary.
   (B)   Establish safety zones of such kind and character and at those places
as it may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
   (C)   Mark lanes for traffic on street pavements at those places as it may
deem advisable.
('71 Code, § 71.10)
§ 70.25 PLAY STREETS.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have authority to declare
any street or part thereof a play street and to place appropriate signs or
devices in the roadway indicating and helping to protect the same.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part
thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon that street or
portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences
are within that closed area, and then that driver shall exercise the greatest
care in driving upon that street or portion thereof.
('71 Code, § 71.11)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross-reference:
   Playing games in streets, see
§ 97.007
§ 70.26 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any
part thereof.
('71 Code, § 71.09)
Penalty, see § 70.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 70.40 DRIVER OF VEHICLE TO GIVE NOTICE OF ACCIDENT TO POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The driver of a vehicle involved in the accident resulting in injury to, or
death of, any person, or property damage in the amount of $50 or more, shall
immediately, by the quickest means of communication, give notice of the
accident to the Police Department, and the car shall not be moved from its
position at the time of the accident until ordered to be moved by the officers
of the Police Department.
('71 Code, § 72.13)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.41 REPORT OF ACCIDENTS BY POLICE.  
   Every police officer who, in the regular course of duty, investigates a
traffic accident, shall make a full and complete report of the investigation on
a standard accident report form. All accident reports shall be for the
confidential use of the Police Department.
('71 Code, § 70.12)
Cross-reference;
   Accident and violation records, see
§ 70.60
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.55 TRAFFIC ENGINEER; ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The office of City Traffic Engineer is established. The City Engineer
shall serve as City Traffic Engineer in addition to his other functions and
duties and shall exercise the powers and duties with respect to traffic as
provided in this traffic code.
   (B)   It shall be the general duty of the City Traffic Engineer to determine
the installation and proper timing and maintenance of traffic-control devices,
to conduct engineering analyses of traffic accidents, to devise remedial
measures, to conduct engineering investigations of traffic conditions and to
cooperate with other city officials in the development of ways and means to
improve traffic conditions and to carry out the additional powers and duties
imposed by this traffic code.
('71 Code, § 70.14)
§ 70.56 ENFORCEMENT OF TRAFFIC LAWS BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   The Police Department shall enforce the street traffic regulations of this
city and all state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in this city, to
make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate all traffic accidents and
to cooperate with the Board of Public Works and Safety and other offices of the
city in the administration of the street traffic laws and in developing ways
and means to improve traffic conditions and to carry out those duties specially
imposed by this traffic code and the ordinances of the city.
('71 Code, § 70.10)
§ 70.57 AUTHORITY TO DIRECT TRAFFIC. 
   (A)   Officers of the Police Department or other officers as are assigned by
the Chief of Police are authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or
signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided that in the event of a fire
or other emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, officers of
the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (B)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity.
('71 Code, § 70.17)
§ 70.58 EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police by and with the approval of the Board of Public
and Safety is empowered to make regulations necessary to make effective and
provisions of this traffic code and to make and enforce temporary or
experimental regulations to cover experimental regulation shall remain in
effect for more than 90 days.
   (B)   The Board of Public Works and Safety may test traffic-control devices
under actual conditions of traffic.
('71 Code, § 70.15)
§ 70.59 ANNUAL TRAFFIC REPORT. 
   The Police Department shall annually prepare a traffic report which shall be
file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer. This report shall include all
information pertinent to the number of traffic accidents, accident trends, the
number of accidents investigated, arrests made as a result of those
investigations, the number of moving traffic violation arrests and other data
on the traffic activities of the Police Department.
('71 Code, § 70.13)
§ 70.60 ACCIDENT AND VIOLATION RECORDS.  
   The Police Department shall maintain a standard system of filing traffic
accident reports by location, and shall maintain suitable files and records
showing the types and numbers of traffic accidents and the arrests and warnings
issued to traffic law violators. The Police Department shall also maintain spot
maps showing the type and location of traffic accidents.
('71 Code, § 70.11)
§ 70.61 FORMS FOR NOTIFYING VIOLATORS; ISSUANCE; RECORDS. 
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall provide in duplicate serially numbered forms for
notifying violators to appear and answer to charges of violating this traffic
code. These forms shall be issued to and receipted for by the Chief of Police
or other person acting for him. The Clerk-Treasurer shall each month report to
the Mayor and Judge of the City Court the disposal made by the police of all
duplicate forms issued to them. For this purpose the City Clerk-Treasurer shall
have access to the necessary records of the Police Department and the City
courts. These reports shall be public records.
('71 Code, § 70.27)
§ 70.62 PROCEDURE UPON ARREST. 
   Except when authorized or directed under state law to immediately take a
person arrested for a violation of any of the traffic laws before a magistrate,
any police officer, upon making an arrest for a violation of the state traffic
laws or the traffic code, shall take the name, address and operator's license
number of the alleged violator and the registered number of the motor vehicle
involved and shall issue to him in writing on a form provided by the city, a
notice to answer to the charge against him at a place and at a time after the
arrest to be specified in the notice. The officer, upon receiving the written
promise of the alleged violator to answer as specified in the notice, shall
release that person from custody.
('71 Code, § 70.28)
§ 70.63 FAILURE TO OBEY NOTICE OR SUMMONS.  
   Any person who violates his written promise to appear given to an officer
upon an arrest for any traffic violations is guilty of a violation regardless
of the deposition of the charge of which he was originally arrested.
('71 Code, § 70.29)
§ 70.64 DISPOSITION OF FINES AND FORFEITURES.
   All fines or forfeitures collected upon conviction or upon the forfeiture of
bail of any person charged with a violation of any of the provisions of this
traffic code shall be paid into the City Treasury and deposited into a special
fund to be known as the Street Fund, which is created and which shall be used
exclusively in the construction, maintenance and repair of public streets,
bridges and street structures, or for the installation and maintenance of
traffic-control devices thereon.
('71 Code, § 70.33)
§ 70.65 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Any police officer may move and impound any vehicle which;
      (1)   Constitutes an obstruction to traffic and is unattended;
      (2)   Displays illegal license plates;
      (3)   Violates the equipment provisions of this code; or
      (4)   Is unattended due to the removal of an ill, injured or arrested
operator.
   (B)   Any person desiring to redeem an impounded vehicle shall either pay
the required fine or post a bond in the amount set by the court. The Police
Department, upon proof of right to possession, shall then issue a release form
for presentation to the pound operator. The pound operator shall release the
vehicle upon receipt of the release form and payment of all towage and storage
charges.
('71 Code, § 70.34)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, every person
convicted of a violation of any provision of this traffic code shall be guilty
of a class C infraction and shall be punished according to state law. ('71
Code, § 70.99)
   (B)   The penalty fee schedule for the city is hereby approved and ratified
as follows:
 
Violation                                     Penalty
1st parking violation                         $25.00
Each subsequent parking violation             $10.00 in addition to the $25.00
1st handicapped parking violation             $50.00
Each subsequent handicapped parking violation $25.00 in addition to the $50.00
 
Half of the above fines shall be designated to the city Police Department Non-
reverting Education Fund 233497 with balance to General Fund 101431.
(Ord. 25-2014, passed 8-11-14)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation of Vehicles
   
71.01   Vehicles to stop at stop signs
   
71.02   Yielding right-of-way at yield signs
   
71.03   One-way streets and alleys
   
71.04   Driving in sidewalk area
   
71.05   Backing vehicle
   
71.06   U-turns
   
71.07   Identification of funeral processions
   
71.08   Riding on portion of vehicle not intended for passengers
Speed Regulations
   
71.25   Application of state speed laws
   
71.26   School zone speeds
Loads and Equipment
   
71.40   Operation of vehicles exceeding weight limit
   
71.41   Use of state or federal routes by operators of commercial vehicle
Parades and Processions
   
71.55   Definitions
   
71.56   Permit required
   
71.57   Application for permit
   
71.58   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.59   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.60   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.61   Alternative permit
   
71.62   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.63   Contents of permit
   
71.64   Duties of permittee
   
71.65   Public conduct during parades
   
71.66   Revocation of permit
Golf Carts
   
71.70   Golf carts not in compliance prohibited
   
71.71   Registration requirements
   
71.72   Driver’s license required
   
71.73   Liability insurance required
   
71.74   Required equipment
   
71.75   Places of operation
   
71.76   Restrictions on occupancy
   
71.77   Subject to all traffic rules
   
71.78   Responsibility of operator
   
71.79   Violation and enforcement
OPERATION OF VEHICLES
§ 71.01 VEHICLES TO STOP AT STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   When stop signs are erected as herein provided at or near the entrance
to any intersection, every driver of a vehicle shall stop that vehicle at that
sign or at a clearly marked stop line before entering the intersection, except
when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control signal.
   (B)   In accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 74, Schedule III, when signs are erected giving notice thereof, drivers
of vehicles shall stop at every intersection before entering any through
street.
('71 Code, § 72.02)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.02 YIELDING RIGHT-OF-WAY AT YIELD SIGNS.
   When yield signs are erected at any intersection, the operator of any
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to vehicles operating on the intersecting
street.
('71 Code, § 72.03)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.03 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys described in
Chapter 74, Schedule VI, vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated
direction when signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected and
maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite direction is
prohibited.
('71 Code, § 72.01)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.04 DRIVING IN SIDEWALK AREA.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway.
('71 Code, § 72.08)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.05 BACKING VEHICLE.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless that movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
('71 Code, § 72.05)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.06 U-TURNS.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such a vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction upon any streets in the city.
('71 Code, § 72.04)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.07 IDENTIFICATION OF FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   The Police Department shall designate a type of pennant or other identifying
insignia to be displayed upon, or other method to be employed, to identify the
vehicles in funeral processions.
('71 Code, § 70.16)
§ 71.08 RIDING ON PORTION OF VEHICLE NOT INTENDED FOR PASSENGERS.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designated
or intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding
within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
('71 Code, § 72.09)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 71.25 APPLICATION OF STATE SPEED LAWS.
   The state traffic laws regulating the speed of vehicles shall be applicable
upon all streets within the city, except as this traffic code, as authorized by
state law, declares and determines upon the basis of engineering and traffic
investigation that certain speed regulations shall be applicable upon specified
streets or in certain areas, in which event it shall be prima facie unlawful
for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of any speed so declared
in this traffic code when signs are in place giving notice thereof.
('71 Code, § 72.11)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.26 SCHOOL ZONE SPEEDS.
   The prima facie speed limit within school zones shall be 20 miles per hour,
which speed shall be effective at the time when signs are erected giving notice
of the prima facie speed limit so declared.
('71 Code, § 72.12)
LOADS AND EQUIPMENT
§ 71.40 OPERATION OF VEHICLES EXCEEDING WEIGHT LIMIT.
   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated, any
vehicle used for the transportation of goods or property, the gross weight of
which, with load, exceeds five tons, upon the streets, bridges and culverts
within this city except on designated and marked state and federal routes,
temporary or permanent. Drivers of those vehicles whose gross weight, with
load, exceeds weight limits prescribed by this section may deliver or pick up
goods or property at places not located on state or federal routes provided
those vehicles are only operated by the shortest way possible between the state
or federal route and the place of delivery or pickup or as otherwise directed
by a police officer.
('71 Code, § 73.02)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.41 USE OF STATE OR FEDERAL ROUTES BY OPERATORS OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLE.
   (A)   All streets and highways leading into the city shall be properly
posted warning operators of vehicles used for the transportation of goods and
property and exceeding weight limits prescribed by this chapter that they must
follow state or federal routes, temporary or permanent.
   (B)   The operator of a vehicle exceeding those weight limits upon entering
the city on a street other than a state or federal route shall proceed
immediately by the shortest way possible to the nearest state or federal route
leading in the direction in which the vehicle is proceeding, except as
otherwise provided in §
71.40.
('71 Code, § 73.03)
Penalty, see § 70.99
PARADES AND PROCESSIONS
§ 71.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRUISING. The repeated operation of two or more vehicles in a continuous or
nearly continuous flow through a parking lot.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city, or CRUISING as defined herein.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
   PARKING LOT. Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of their customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire as defined in KRS 189.700.
§ 71.56 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, providing the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities;
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.57 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by such
officer.
   (A)   The application for a parade permit shall be filed not less than five
days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is proposed to
conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)    The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)    The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)    If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his behalf;
      (13)    Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.58 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of fire
fighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route;
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods, or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit;
   (H)   The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval in
writing of the owner or an authorized agent of the owner for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.59 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he disapproves the application, he
shall mail to the applicant within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after the date on which the application was filed, a notice
of his action stating the reasons for his denial of the permit.
§ 71.60 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
§ 71.61 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternative permit shall file
the written notice of his acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall conform
to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under
this subchapter.
§ 71.62 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief;
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.63 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.64 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairman or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.65 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
§ 71.66 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
GOLF CARTS
§ 71.70 GOLF CARTS NOT IN COMPLIANCE PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter otherwise provided, the operation of vehicles
originally designed for operation on a golf course, whether powered by battery,
fuel engine or otherwise, and commonly referred to as “golf carts”, on city
streets and thoroughfares, is and shall be prohibited, except insofar as such
golf carts are registered, equipped and operated in full compliance with §§
71.71 et seq.
(Ord. 12-2009, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 06-2012, passed 3-12-12; Am. Ord. 20-
2012, passed 10-22-12)
§ 71.71 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The owners or lessees of golf carts must register them annually with
the city on or before May 1, and pay an annual registration fee of $12.
Further, the owners or lessees of golf carts shall submit their golf carts for
a one time initial inspection and pay the one time inspection fee of $25.
   (B)   All payments shall be made to Clerk-Treasurer who, after inspection by
the Police Department verifying that the cart is insured and equipped as
required by §
71.73 and §
71.74, respectively, of this subchapter, shall issue a certificate of
registration (“permit”) and numerical tags.
      (1)   The permit must be in the golf cart or in the possession of the
person operating the golf cart at all times such golf cart is in operation on
city streets or thoroughfares.
      (2)   The numerical tags shall be prominently attached to and displayed
on the front and rear of the golf cart.
(Ord. 12-2009, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 06-2012, passed 3-12-12; Am. Ord. 20-
2012, passed 10-22-12)
§ 71.72 DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Only persons over 16 years of age and holding a valid motor vehicle driver's
license, bearing a photograph verifying the identity and age of the operator,
may operate golf carts within the city limits.
(Ord. 12-2009, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 06-2012, passed 3-12-12; Am. Ord. 20-
2012, passed 10-22-12)
§ 71.73 LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   The financial responsibility of the owner, lessee or operator
notwithstanding, the golf cart must be covered by liability insurance coverage
in an amount not less than that provided by state statutes for motor vehicles
operated on public thoroughfares in the State of Indiana. Proof of such
liability coverage must be available on the cart or carried by the operator at
all times the golf cart is operated on city streets or thoroughfares.
(Ord. 12-2009, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 06-2012, passed 3-12-12; Am. Ord. 20-
2012, passed 10-22-12)
§ 71.74 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   The golf cart must be equipped with two operating headlights (one on each
side of the front of the golf cart), tail lights (one on each side of the rear
of the golf cart) visible from a distance of 500 feet, and brake lights; a slow
moving vehicle placard; a rear view mirror; seat belts for all occupants and
child restraint when appropriate; a safety flag and/or strobe light extending
five feet above the rear fender shall be properly displayed at all times.
(Ord. 12-2009, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 06-2012, passed 3-12-12; Am. Ord. 20-
2012, passed 10-22-12)
§ 71.75 PLACES OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts may be operated on city streets or thoroughfares on which the
speed limit is 35 miles per hour or less.
(Ord. 12-2009, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 06-2012, passed 3-12-12; Am. Ord. 20-
2012, passed 10-22-12)
§ 71.76 RESTRICTIONS ON OCCUPANCY.
   Occupants of a golf cart in operation on city streets or thoroughfares shall
be limited to the number of persons for whom factory seating is installed on
the cart. Occupants of the golf cart, including the operator, shall be seated
in the cart, and no part of the body of the operator or an occupant shall
extend outside the perimeter of the cart while in operation.
(Ord. 12-2009, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 06-2012, passed 3-12-12; Am. Ord. 20-
2012, passed 10-22-12)
§ 71.77 SUBJECT TO ALL TRAFFIC RULES.
   All golf carts and the operation thereof shall be subject to all traffic
rules, in addition to the requirements set forth herein, as required by Indiana
statutes governing the operation of motor vehicles, including the use of seat
belts by all occupants.
(Ord. 12-2009, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 06-2012, passed 3-12-12; Am. Ord. 20-
2012, passed 10-22-12)
§ 71.78 RESPONSIBILITY OF OPERATOR.
   The owner or lessee of a golf cart, who applies for a permit to operate the
golf cart within the city, as provided in §
71.71, shall agree to be responsible, jointly and severally, with any person
who is permitted to operate the golf cart, for any injury or damages the
operator causes by reason of the operation of the golf cart if such operator is
liable for such damages.
(Ord. 12-2009, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 06-2012, passed 3-12-12; Am. Ord. 20-
2012, passed 10-22-12)
§ 71.79 VIOLATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of §§
71.70 et seq. shall constitute an ordinance violation.
      (1)   An owner, lessee or operator may be cited to appear in a court of
competent jurisdiction by the issuance of an Indiana Uniform Traffic Ticket.
      (2)   Upon a finding by such court that an owner, lessee or operator of a
golf cart has violated any provision or provisions of §§
71.70 et seq.:
         (a)   Such person shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $100 for
each offense, along with court costs in the amount same now exists or may
hereafter be determined by ordinance or statute; and
         (b)   In addition, the permit, as herein above provided, may be
subject to suspension or revocation; provided, however, in the event that two
or more offenses constituting violations of §§
71.70 et seq. occur within one year of a first offense, the permit to operate
the golf cart shall be revoked and may not be reissued for a period of one
year.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or lessee of the golf cart
to comply with the provisions of §§
71.71 through
71.74 and §
71.79(A). The failure to comply with the requirements of §§
71.71 through
71.74 and §
71.79(A) shall constitute an ordinance violation by the owner or lessee of the
golf cart.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the operator of the golf cart to
comply with the provisions of §§
71.75 through
71.78, including specifically responsibility for the actions of all occupants
as set forth in §
71.78. The failure to comply with the requirements set forth in §§
71.75 through
71.78 shall constitute an ordinance violation by the operator.
(Ord. 12-2009, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 06-2012, passed 3-12-12; Am. Ord. 20-
2012, passed 10-22-12)
CHAPTER 72: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
72.001   Application of chapter
   
72.002   Regulations not exclusive
   
72.003   Erection of appropriate signs when required
Parking Generally
   
72.015   Manner of parking
   
72.016   Limitations on stopping, standing or parking
   
72.017   Parking adjacent to schools
   
72.018   Parking or standing in alleys
   
72.019   Parking prohibited on narrow streets
   
72.020   Standing or parking on one-way street
   
72.021   No stopping, standing or parking near hazardous or congested places
   
72.022   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
72.023   Overnight parking
   
72.024   Parking not to obstruct traffic
   
72.025   Unlawfully moving vehicle of another
   
72.026   Trailer parking
   
72.027   Truck parking and loading restrictions
   
72.028   Handicapped parking
   
72.029   Prisoner of war and disabled veterans parking
Parking Permits
   
72.040   Information contained on permit
   
72.041   Expiration of permit
   
72.042   Approval of application; revocation
   
72.043   Sign and markings designated; fees
   
72.044   Disposition of revenue
   
72.045   Permit regulations
   
72.046   Enforcement
Snow Emergency
   
72.065   Declaration of snow emergency
   
72.066   Designation of snow routes
   
72.067   Parked vehicles to be towed
Public Carrier Stands; Loading and Unloading
   
72.080   Bus stops and taxicab stands established
   
72.081   Parking of taxicabs
   
72.082   Intracity bus loading zones
   
72.083   Restrictions on loading and unloading buses
   
72.084   Standing in passenger curb loading zone
   
72.085   Curb loading zones
   
72.086   Standing in freight curb loading zone
Administration and Enforcement
   
72.100   Notice of illegally parked vehicle
   
72.101   Presumption in reference to illegal parking
   
72.102   Noncompliance; warrant for arrest
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.001 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter prohibiting the standing or parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified, or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control device.
('71 Code, § 74.01)
§ 72.002 REGULATIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The provisions of this chapter imposing a time limit on parking shall not
relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing or parking of
vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
('71 Code, § 74.02)
§ 72.003 ERECTION OF APPROPRIATE SIGNS WHEN REQUIRED.
   Whenever parking time limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on
designated streets by this chapter or any other applicable chapter or ordinance
of the city, it shall be the duty of the Board of Public Works and Safety to
erect appropriate signs giving notice thereof. No such regulations shall be
effective unless those signs are erected and in place at the time of any
alleged offense.
('71 Code, § 74.03)
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.015 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than
parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic
movement and with the front and rear wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of
the curb or edge of the roadway except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
('71 Code, § 74.04)
   (B)   Angle parking.
      (1)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall determine upon what
streets angle parking shall be permitted and shall mark or sign those streets.
But angle parking shall not be indicated upon any federal or state highway
within the city unless the State Highway Commission has determined by
resolution or order entered in its minutes that the roadway is of sufficient
width to permit angle parking without interfering with the free movement of
traffic.
      (2)   Angle parking shall not be indicated or permitted at any place
where passing traffic would thereby be caused or required to drive upon the
left side of the street.
('71 Code, § 74.05)
   (C)   Upon those streets which have been signed or marked by the Board of
Public Works and Safety for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a
vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by
those signs or markings.
('71 Code, § 74.06)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.016 LIMITATIONS ON STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the
following spaces:
      (1)    In front of any theater, school or office building, when
restricted area is so marked.
      (2)    In front of, alongside of or across from a funeral home, church or
other building or location where a funeral service or activity is being
conducted; provided, that proper signs have been erected prohibiting parking;
and that the person so stopping, standing or parking a motor vehicle is not a
patron of the funeral activity. Nothing herein shall prohibit anyone attending
a funeral service or activity from stopping, standing or parking a motor
vehicle in an area designated for funeral parking.
   (B)   Any police officer may move or impound or cause to be moved or
impounded any vehicle which is found in violation of this section. Any person
desiring to redeem an impounded vehicle shall either pay the required fine or
post a bond in the amount set by the court. The Police Department, upon proof
of right to possession, shall then issue a release form for the presentation to
the Pound Operator. The Pound Operator shall release that vehicle upon receipt
of the release form and payment of all towage and storage charges. Every person
convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this section shall, in
addition to the payment of all towage and storage charges, be punished by a
fine plus costs.
('71 Code, § 74.07) (Ord. 13-79, passed 4-23-79)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.017 PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of §
70.58, the Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized to erect signs
indicating no parking upon the side of any street adjacent to any school
property when that parking would, in its opinion, interfere with traffic or
create a hazardous situation.
   (B)   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon that side
of a street adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a vehicle in
any such designated place.
('71 Code, § 74.14)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.018 PARKING OR STANDING IN ALLEYS.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle within an alley except while actually loading or unloading, and then
only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
('71 Code, § 74.10)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.019 PARKING PROHIBITED ON NARROW STREETS.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of §
70.58, the Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized to erect signs
indicating no parking upon any street when the width of the roadway does not
exceed 20 feet, or upon one side of a street, as indicated by those signs, when
the width of the roadway does not exceed 30 feet.
   (B)   When official signs prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow
streets as authorized herein, no person shall park a vehicle upon any such
street in violation of that sign.
('71 Code, § 74.15)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.020 STANDING OR PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREET.
   Subject to the provisions of §
70.58, the Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized to erect signs upon
the left-hand side of any one-way street to prohibit the standing or parking of
vehicles, and when those signs are in place, no person shall stand or park a
vehicle upon the left-hand side in violation of that sign.
('71 Code, § 74.16)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.021 NO STOPPING,STANDING OR PARKING NEAR HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of §
70.58, the Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized to determine and
designate by proper signs placed not exceeding 100 feet in length in which the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous
condition or would cause unusual delay to traffic.
   (B)   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places as
authorized herein, no person shall stop stand or park a vehicle in that
designated place.
('71 Code, § 74.17)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.022 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon a roadway for the principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying that vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing that vehicle except for repairs made
necessary by an emergency.
('71 Code, § 74.12)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.023 OVERNIGHT PARKING.
   No person shall park a vehicle on any street in a business district for a
period of time longer than 30 minutes between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 5:00
a.m. of any day, except physicians on emergency calls.
('71 Code, § 74.11)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.024 PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley, in a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the
width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
('71 Code, § 74.09)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.025 UNLAWFULLY MOVING VEHICLE OF ANOTHER.
   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
('71 Code, § 74.08)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.026 TRAILER PARKING.
   No person shall park any trailer upon any of the streets and alleys of the
city at any time of the day or night unless there be attached to that trailer a
tractor which is designed to pull the trailer.
('71 Code, § 74.13)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.027 TRUCK PARKING AND LOADING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   All motor trucks, tractors, trailers, buses, house trailers,
semitrailers, farm machinery and equipment having a load capacity in excess of
1½ tons, or a length in excess of 19 feet, or a height in excess of seven feet
or a width in excess of seven feet shall not park or partially park upon the
public streets, alleys and highways of the city for a period of more than two
hours out of each 24 hours. Those vehicles may park in those areas set out in
Chapter 75, Schedule IV for the purpose of loading or unloading freight between
the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 11:00 a.m.; provided, further, the above vehicles
may park in those areas and at those times as may be approved by the Common
Council and designated by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (B)   In places where, and at hours when, stopping for the loading or
unloading of merchandise or materials is permitted, vehicles used for the
transportation of merchandise or materials may back into the curb to take on or
discharge loads when the owner of that vehicle holds a permit issued by the
Police Department granting him that privilege. The permit shall be either in
the possession of the drive or on the vehicle at the time the vehicle is backed
against the curb to take on or discharge a load, and no owner or driver shall
violate any of the special terms or conditions of any such special permit.
('71 Code, § 73.01)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.028 HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and empowered to enforce
handicapped parking designations on public streets and in areas where parking
is limited but not prohibited by ordinance, including spaces set aside for such
purposes in parking areas of public access or resort including grocery store,
shopping center and restaurant parking lots.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)    PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PERSON. Any person certified by a qualified
physician to be disabled in a manner rendering it impossible or difficult and
burdensome for him or her to walk.
      (2)    PHYSICALLY INCAPACITATED PERSON.
         (a)   Any person having an ambulatory defect of 85% or more and having
a valid operator's license issued by the State of Indiana; and
         (b)   Any person eligible for a handicapped special registration plate
as provided under state law.
      (3)    PHYSICALLY IMPAIRED PERSON. Any physically incapacitated person or
a physically handicapped person as defined herein.
   (B)   The vehicle of any person authorized as above, when parking pursuant
to this section, shall either have a special handicapped vehicle registration
plate issued pursuant to I.C. 9-7-4.1-1 or carry a sticker or card
conspicuously displayed at all times.
   (C)   The unauthorized possession or use of such card and/or sticker is
hereby declared a violation of this section and subject to a penalty of $25 to
be enforced as provided by the general penalty provisions of this code.
   (D)   Parking of a vehicle by any person in a space reserved hereunder
without a visible permit or special registration plate showing such parking to
be authorized shall be unlawful and shall subject the owner and/or driver of
the vehicle so parked to a penalty of $25 for the first violation and $50 for
each subsequent violation, and all penalties are to be enforced as provided by
the general penalty provision of this code.
   (E)   Sections
72.040 through and including
72.046 shall apply unless there be specific conflict, and in that instance §
72.028 shall prevail and apply.
(Ord. 32-92, passed 11-23-92; Am. Ord. 18-2008, passed 11-10-08; Am. Ord. 17-
2009, passed 1-11-10)
§ 72.029 PRISONER OF WAR AND DISABLED VETERANS PARKING.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and empowered to enforce prisoner
of war and disabled veterans parking designations on public streets.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      DISABLED VETERAN. An individual certified to be a disabled veteran by the
State Department of Veteran's Affairs.
      PRISONER OF WAR. An individual certified to have been a prisoner of war
by the State Department of Veteran's Affairs.
   (B)   Sections
72.040 through
72.044 and §
72.046 shall apply unless there be specific conflict, and in that instance §
72.028 shall prevail and apply.
   (C)   Section
72.045(A)(2)(3)(4)(5) and (B) shall apply, but §
72.045(A)(1) shall not apply.
(Ord. 18-2008, passed 11-10-08; Am. Ord. 17-2009, passed 1-11-10)
PARKING PERMITS
§ 72.040 INFORMATION CONTAINED ON PERMIT.
   The permit provided for in this subchapter shall contain the following
information:
   (A)   Number of permit;
   (B)   Name and address of person to whom permit is issued;
   (C)   Year, make and license number of vehicle authorized to use the space;
and
   (D)   Month and date of issuance and date of expiration if other than
December 31, of the year of issuance.
('71 Code, § 74.24(C)) (Ord. 36-77, passed 6-14-77)
§ 72.041 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   All permits shall automatically expire when the permit holder can no longer
qualify for a permit and on December 31 of each year.
('71 Code, § 74.24(D)) (Ord. 36-77, passed 6-14-77; Am. Ord. 9-2017, passed 2-
13-17)
§ 72.042 APPROVAL OF APPLICATION; REVOCATION.
   (A)   The application for a permit under the provisions of this subchapter
and section shall be first approved by the Board of Public Works. The
application for a permit shall be forwarded by the City Clerk-Treasurer to the
Board of Public Works and Safety, and the application shall be approved or
disapproved in accordance with the guidelines set forth in this subchapter. The
initial investigation and decision of the application shall be made by two
members of the Board. An adverse ruling may have appealed to the Board as a
whole, whose decision shall be final. Any permits previously issued shall be
immediately reviewable upon the passage of the ordinance upon which this
subchapter is based. If a previously issued permit is approved and no
administration fee has been yet charged and paid by the applicant, the
administrative fee shall be required. If a previously issued permit is
disapproved, a percentage refund based upon the months remaining in the first
12 months after issuance of the permit shall be paid to the permit holder upon
proof of having paid the fee.
   (B)   The Board shall further have the authority to revoke any permit upon
finding a violation of the regulations contained in this subchapter and
section.
('71 Code, § 74.24(F)) (Ord. 36-77, passed 6-14-77)
§ 72.043 SIGN AND MARKINGS DESIGNATED; FEES.
   (A)   An appropriate sign and painted lines, where appropriate, shall be
placed so as to designate the permitted parking space.
   (B)   Initial fee for cost of sign and placement of sign shall be $100, and
there shall be a $25 annual renewal fee. Prisoners of war and disabled veterans
shall be exempt from the initial $100 fee, but shall be subject to the annual
renewal fee.
   (C)   All recipients with any sign issued by the city shall immediately
inform the city at such time as the recipient ceases to reside at the permitted
address.
   (D)   Fees will be waived for persons that are in possession of a
permanently disabled license plate or placard on their vehicle issued by the
Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles registered at the same address as the
handicapped parking sign.
('71 Code, § 74.24(G)) (Ord. 36-77, passed 6-14-77; Am. Ord. 18-2008, passed
11-10-08; Am. Ord. 17-2009, passed 1-11-10; Am. Ord. 9-2017, passed 2-13-17)
§ 72.044 DISPOSITION OF REVENUE.
   All funds derived from the granting of permits under the provisions of this
subchapter and section shall be placed in the General Fund of the city.
('71 Code, § 74.24(H)) (Ord. 36-77, passed 6-14-77)
§ 72.045 PERMIT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following regulations shall be in effect:
      (1)   A permit shall be issued only when there is a lack of off-street
parking at the applicant's place of residence. ADEQUATE OFF-STREET PARKING
shall be defined as space for one automobile including adequate access to that
space.
      (2)   Permits are restricted to one per residence.
      (3)   Permits are valid only for the calendar year in which they are
issued.
      (4)   Private parking spaces to be used for passenger vehicles only.
      (5)   Private parking spaces may not be subleased or rented, for
consideration or gratuitously, so individuals outside the applicant's
household.
   (B)   Violation of these regulations of any other provisions of this
subchapter and section shall result in immediate revocation of the permit by
the Board of Public Works and Safety with forfeiture of all fees paid.
('71 Code, § 74.24(J)) (Ord. 36-77, passed 6-14-77)
§ 72.046 ENFORCEMENT.
   No vehicle other than those authorized by the applicable permit shall park
in the private parking space. Any vehicle parked in violation of this provision
shall be subject to penalties as provided in §
70.99.
('71 Code, § 74.24(I)) (Ord. 36-77, passed 6-14-77)
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.065 DECLARATION OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Upon a declaration by the Mayor, after recommendation by the Board of Public
Works and Safety that a snow emergency exists caused by heavy snowfall in the
city, no parking shall be permitted upon routes listed in
Chapter 75, Schedule V by any vehicle.
('71 Code, § 79.11(B)) (Ord. 75-78, passed 12-11-78)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.066 DESIGNATION OF SNOW ROUTES.
   The above routes shall be designated as snow routes and reasonable insignias
or signs shall be placed on the routes to indicate to the public that the
routes are snow routes.
('71 Code, § 79.11(C)) (Ord. 75-78, passed 12-11-78)
§ 72.067 PARKED VEHICLES TO BE TOWED.
   After a declaration of emergency, no parking shall be permitted upon a now
route, and any vehicle found parking upon a snow route may be towed by the
city, or its agent, at the cost of the owner of the vehicle.
('71 Code, § 79.11(D)) (Ord. 75-78, passed 12-11-78)
PUBLIC CARRIER STANDS; LOADING AND UNLOADING
§ 72.080 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Subject to §
70.58, the Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized and required to
establish bus stops and taxicab stands and stands for other passenger common
carrier motor vehicle on those public streets in those places and in such
number as it shall determine to be of the greatest benefit and convenience to
the public. Every bus stop, taxicab stand or other stand shall be designated by
appropriate signs.
('71 Code, § 73.04)
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop or other than a taxicab stand when any such stop or stand has been
officially designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver of a
passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when stopping does not
interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter that zone.
('71 Code, § 74.23)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.081 PARKING OF TAXICABS.
   The driver of a taxicab shall not park upon any street in any business
district at any place other than at a taxicab stand, except that this provision
shall not prevent the driver of any such vehicle for temporarily stopping in
accordance with other stopping or parking regulations at any place for the
purpose of, and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers.
('71 Code, § 73.05)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.082 INTRACITY BUS LOADING ZONES.
   No intracity bus shall stop for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers within the congested area of this city except at designated bus
loading zones.
('71 Code, § 73.07)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.083 RESTRICTIONS ON LOADING AND UNLOADING BUSES.
   No bus shall load or unload any passenger until such bus is parallel to the
curb and not more than one foot distant therefrom. If there be no curb, then
loading and unloading shall be done in such a manner as to cause no obstruction
to the regular flow of traffic.
('71 Code, § 73.08)
§ 72.084 STANDING IN PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of
time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers in any
place marked as a passenger curb loading zones during hours when the
regulations applicable to the curb loading zone are effective, and then only
for a period not to exceed three minutes.
('71 Code, § 74.21)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.085 CURB LOADING ZONES.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized to determine the location
of passenger and freight curb loading zones and shall place and maintain
appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours during which the
provisions of this section are applicable.
('71 Code, § 74.20)
§ 72.086 STANDING IN FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and
loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone during
the hours when the provisions applicable to those zones are in effect. In no
case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
('71 Code, § 74.22)
Penalty, see § 70.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.100 NOTICE OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or stopped in
violation of any of the restrictions imposed by this traffic code any other
applicable ordinances of this city or by state law, the officer finding that
vehicle shall take it registration number and may take any other information
displayed on the vehicle which may identify its user, and shall conspicuously
affix to that vehicle a notice in writing, on a form provided by the Clerk-
Treasurer for the driver to answer to the charge against him within 72 hours,
during the hours and at a place specified in the notice. The officer shall send
one copy of that notice to the Police Department and one copy to the city
court.
('71 Code, § 73.30)
§ 72.101 PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation governing
the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle
described in the complaint was parked in violation of any such law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of the parking the registered owner of that vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
that vehicle was the person who parked or placed that vehicle at the point
where, and for the time during which, the violation occurred.
('71 Code, § 70.31)
§ 72.102 NONCOMPLIANCE; WARRANT FOR ARREST.
   In the event any person fails to comply with a notice given to that such or
attached to a vehicle, or fails to make appearance pursuant to a summons
directing an appearance in the city court or if any person fails or refuses to
deposit bail as required and within the time permitted by ordinance, the Clerk
of the City Court shall forthwith have an affidavit entered against that person
and secure and issue a warrant for his arrest.
('71 Code, § 70.32)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND OTHER TOY VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Use of coasters, roller skates and similar devices restricted
   
73.02   Clinging to moving vehicles
Bicycles; Licensing
   
73.15   Application of regulations
   
73.16   Compliance
   
73.17   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
73.18   Operation of bicycle
   
73.19   Parking
   
73.20   Riding on sidewalks
   
73.21   Lights and other equipment on bicycles
   
73.22   License required
   
73.23   License application
   
73.24   Issuance of license
   
73.25   Inspection of bicycles
   
73.26   Bicycle dealers
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Ordinance Violations Bureau, see
Chapter 36
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk, and when so crossing that person shall be granted all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
this section shall not apply upon any street while set aside as a play street.
('71 Code, § 70.06)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.02 CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, roller skates
or any toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself to any moving vehicle upon
any roadway.
('71 Code, § 70.07)
Penalty, see § 73.99
BICYCLES; LICENSING
§ 73.15 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver
of a vehicle by the laws of this state, declaring rules of the road applicable
to vehicles or by the traffic code and other ordinances of the city applicable
to the driver of a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this chapter
and except as to those provisions of laws and ordinances which by their nature
can have no application.
('71 Code, § 78.07)
   (B)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any street or upon any public path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
('71 Code, § 78.01(C))
§ 73.16 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No person shall do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act
required in this chapter.
   (B)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.
('71 Code, § 78.01(A),(B))
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.17 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any that sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
('71 Code, § 78.08)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.18 OPERATION OF BICYCLE.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
('71 Code, § 78.09)
   (C)   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths.
      (1)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near
to the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
      (2)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
      (3)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use that path and shall not use the roadway.
('71 Code, § 78.10)
   (D)   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
('71 Code, § 78.11)
   (E)   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on that
sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
('71 Code, § 78.12)
   (F)   No person riding upon any bicycle shall attach the same or himself to
any vehicle upon a roadway.
('71 Code, § 78.13)
   (G)   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or
article which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handle
bars.
('71 Code, § 78.14)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.19 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb, or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle, or
against a building or at the curb. Bicycles shall be parked in such a manner as
to afford the least obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
('71 Code, § 78.15)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.20 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within the central
business district (from 2nd and Main to 6th and Main).
   (B)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, that person
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
   (C)   The bicycle shall not be operated at a speed, or in any manner, which
constitutes a threat to the safety of either the bicycle operator or other
persons, or diminishes or impairs the free use of the sidewalk or greenway by
other persons.
('71 Code, § 78.16) (Am. Ord. 43-2014, passed 2-23-15) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.21 LIGHTS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type which
shall be visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when
directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp
emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be
used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or
other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least 100
feet, except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any persons
use upon a bicycle, any siren or whistle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
('71 Code, § 78.17)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.22 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, who resides within the city, shall ride or propel a bicycle on
any street or upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles
unless the bicycle has been licensed as provided by this chapter.
('71 Code, § 78.02)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.23 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Application for a bicycle license shall be made upon a form provided by the
city and shall be made to the Chief of Police.
('71 Code, § 78.03)
§ 73.24 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police upon receiving proper application therefor is
authorized to issue a bicycle license.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall not issue a license for any bicycle when he
knows or has reasonable ground to believe that the applicant is not the owner
of or entitled to the possession of that bicycle.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall keep a record of the number of each license,
the date issued, the name and address of the person to whom issued and the
number on the frame of the bicycle for which issued.
('71 Code, § 78.04)
§ 73.25 INSPECTION OF BICYCLES.
   The Chief of Police, or an officer assigned that responsibility, shall
inspect each bicycle before licensing the same and shall refuse a license for
any bicycle which he determines is in unsafe mechanical condition.
('71 Code, § 78.05)
§ 73.26 BICYCLE DEALERS.
   Every person engaged in the business of buying or selling new or secondhand
bicycles shall make a report to the Chief of Police of every bicycle purchased
or sold by such dealer, giving the name and address of the person from whom
purchased or to whom sold, a description of that bicycle by name or make, the
frame number thereof.
('71 Code, § 78.06)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter
for which no other penalty is set forth shall be fined not more than $25, be
punished by removal and detention of the license for a period not to exceed 30
days or by impounding of that person's bicycle for a period not to exceed 30
days or by any combination thereof.
('71 Code, § 78.99)
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
73.01 and
73.02 shall be subject to the penalty provisions set forth in §
70.99.
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Through streets
   
III.   Stop streets
   
IV.   Yield streets
   
V.   Traffic-control signal locations
   
VI.   One-way and two-way streets
   
VII.   Limited thoroughfare streets
   
VIII.   Intercity bus routes
   
IX.   Left turn lane
   
X.   No passing zone
   
XI.   Entrances
   
XII.   No combination trucks
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or any person in control of a vehicle to
operate or permit that vehicle to be operated at a rate of speed in excess of
the following limits:
Street Location M.P.H. Ord. No. Date Passed
Street          Location                   M.P.H. Ord. No.      Date Passed
Chicago Avenue  From Second Street to      20     4-86          4-29-86
                Oliphant Drive
Daleview Street Daleview Estates           20     4-2004        3-8-04
Damon Street    Daleview Estates           20     4-2004        3-8-04
Donna Street    Daleview Estates           20     4-2004        3-8-04
First Street    From Harrison Street to    20     17-2008       10-27-08
                Main Street
                The intersection with Felt
Hart Street     King Road and proceeding   35     24-2010       10-25-10
                outbound to Richard Bauer
                Drive
Meadowlark Lane All locations              20     15-2007       10-9-07
Old Highway 50  Near the intersection with 45     13-95         8-29-95
                Hebert Road
                Approximately half-way
Old Highway 50  between Hebert Road and    35     13-95         8-29-95
                the Highway 41 overpass
                The Highway 41 overpass
Old Highway 50  and continue therein       30     13-95         8-29-95
                unless previously set by
                ordinance or state law
Red Skelton     All locations, from Second 20     3-2010        2-8-10
Boulevard       Street to Oliphant Drive
St. Clair       All locations              30     4-2004        3-8-04
Street
Turley Avenue   “Children at Play” all 20     4-2004        3-8-04
                locations
Washington      From Belle Crossing
Avenue          intersection to Lakewood   30     33-97         11-24-97
                intersection
Washington      From Lakewood intersection 35     33-97         11-24-97
Avenue          to Hebert Road
Washington      From Hebert Road to City   45     33-97         11-24-97
Avenue          limits
                CSX Railroad north to and
Vincennes       including St. Clair Street
University      and from Wabash River east 20     25-96         8-12-96
                to and including Second
                Street
All school
zones
From 6:00 a.m.  All locations, except the
to 6:00 p.m.    portion of Hart Street     20     2-99, 24-2010 2-8-99, 10-25-
Monday through  specified in this table                         10
Friday when
school is in
session
All school      All locations, except the
zones           portion of Hart Street     30     2-99, 24-2010 2-8-99, 10-25-
At all other    specified in this table                         10
times
 
('71 Code, § 79.04(F))
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE II. THROUGH STREETS.
   The streets and parts of streets described herein are declared to be through
streets of the city:
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street              Location                               Ord. No. Date Passed
Chestnut Street     From Indianapolis Avenue to Portland
                    Avenue
College Avenue      From west city limits to east city
                    limits
Indianapolis Avenue From Chestnut Street to Second Street
                    except at First Street
                    From Second Street to Fifteenth Street
Nicholas Street     except at Fourth, Sixth, Tenth and
                    Thirteenth Streets
Oliphant Drive      From Portland Avenue to Chicago Avenue
Portland Avenue     From west city limits to Second Street
                    except at Chestnut Street
St. Clair Street    From Second Street to east city limits
Washington Avenue   From Seventh Street to north city
                    limits
Second Street       From Vigo Street to north city limits
Fourth Street       From Willow Street to Hart Street
Sixth Street        From Willow Street to north city
                    limits
Seventh Street      From Vigo Street to College Avenue
S. Seventh Street   Between Bayou and Willow Streets
Eighth Street       From Busseron Street to College Avenue
Tenth Street        From Hart Street to Willow Street
                    except at Main and Nicholas Streets
                    From Willow Street to Ritterskamp
Thirteenth Street   Avenue except at College Avenue, St.   9-72     3-27-72
                    Clair, Main and Hart Streets and
                    Wabash Avenue
Fifteenth Street    From Willow Street to Hart Street,
                    except at Main Street
 
('71 Code, §§ 79.11, Sch. I; 79.04(D))
SCHEDULE III. STOP STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall fail to stop
at the following designated streets:
   (A)   One-way stop streets.
Location Ord. No. Date
Location                                                      Ord. No. Date
At exit of Teachers Credit Union, 615 Kimmel Road             36-88    11-28-88
Chestnut Street at St. Clair                                  25-96    8-12-96
Cresthaven at Daleview                                        4-2004   3-8-04
Crestmont at Daleview                                         4-2004   3-8-04
Dailey Avenue at Wabash Avenue
Dalewood at Daleview                                          4-2004   3-8-04
Damon at Daleview                                             4-2004   3-8-04
Donna at Daleview                                             4-2004   3-8-04
Entrance at 4-Lakes Tennis Court parking area
First Street at St. Clair Street                              25-96    8-12-96
Fourth Street South at Willow Street                          31-99    11-8-99
Frazier Avenue at S. Fifteenth Street
Frazier Avenue at S. Fourteenth Street
Lafferty Drive at Kennedy Lane                                33-97    11-24-97
Prospect Extension at Kimmel Road
Ridge Road at McDowell Road                                   35-77    5-23-77
Taylor Street at Lyndale Avenue                               35-77    5-23-77
Veterans Drive with its intersection with the exit of the
Citizens bank automatic teller machine, on the east side of   14-95    8-15-95
the McDonald's parking lot entry drive
Veterans Drive with its intersection with the McDonald's      14-95    8-15-95
entry drive
Veterans Drive with its intersection immediately prior to the 14-95    8-15-95
McDonald's restaurant entry drive
Wessel Road at S. Twenty-Second Street
N. Ninth Street at Oak Street
N. Tenth Street at Oak Street                                 4-86     4-29-86
 
   (B)   Two-way stop streets.
Location Ord. No. Date
Location                                                     Ord. No. Date
Barnett Street at Fifth Street                               68-79    12-10-79
Broadway, Buntin, Perry and Seminary Streets at Ninth Street 25-76    6-14-76
Buntin Street at Fifth Street                                1-2011   1-24-11
Buntin, Perry and Busseron Streets at Twelfth Street         25-76    6-14-76
Burnett Lane, Audubon and Old Orchard Roads at Ridge Road    25-76    6-14-76
Cavanaugh Street at S. Sixteenth Street
Church Street at Fifth Street                                68-79    12-10-79
College Avenue                                               25-76    6-14-76
College Avenue at entrance to YMCA's property
College Avenue at First Street                               25-76    6-14-76
Crestview at Daleview                                        4-2004   3-8-04
DeWolf at N. Twelfth Street
DeWolf Street at Twelfth Street                              68-79    12-10-79
DeWolf Street at Upper Eleventh Street                       68-79    12-10-79
DuBois Street at Fifth Street                                68-79    12-10-79
E. Lyndale at N. First Street, east and west on              36-88    11-28-88
E. Swartzel at N. First Street, east and west on             36-88    11-28-88
E. Sycamore at N. First Street, east and west on             36-88    11-28-88
E. Sycamore Street at North Fourteenth Street                4-86     4-29-86
Harrison Street at Second Street                             35-77    5-23-77
Hendron Hills Drive at Forest Hills Drive                    68-79    12-10-79
Indianapolis Avenue at Chestnut Street                       25-76    6-14-76
Jefferson, Minneapolis, New Albany and Chicago Avenues at    25-76    6-14-76
First Street
Locust and Sycamore Streets at Short Street                  35-77    5-23-77
Locust Street at First Street                                25-76    6-14-76
Lyndale Avenue and St. Clair Street at First Street          35-77    5-23-77
Margaret Drive at Ridgeway Avenue                            49-98    11-9-98
Nicholas Street at Fifth Street                              68-79    12-10-79
Nicholas Street at S. Fifth Street
Oak, Locust and Sycamore Streets at Twelfth Street           25-76    6-14-76
Perry Street at Fourth Street                                25-76    6-14-76
Road running parallel with railroad tracks at Washington
Avenue, Wabash Avenue, Ninth Street and Second Street at Old 25-76    6-14-76
Highway Forty- One North
Shelby, Scott and Harrison Streets at Twelfth Street         25-76    6-14-76
Shelby, Scott, Harrison, Oak, Locust and Sycamore            25-76    6-14-76
Short Street at St. Clair Street                             25-76    6-14-76
State Street at N. Fourteenth Street
Veterans Drive and Hart Street, on the north and south side  14-95    8-15-95
of the intersection
Streets at Upper Eleventh Street                             25-76    6-14-76
First Street at Harrison Street                              25-76    6-14-76
N. Second Street at Executive Boulevard
Third Street at DuBois Street                                25-76    6-14-76
Fifth and Perry Street                                       7-2018   5-29-18
Ninth Street at Wabash Avenue                                25-76    6-14-76
Tenth Street at Wabash Avenue                                25-76    6-14-76
Eleventh Street between Hart Street and Main Street          33-97    11-24-97
Eleventh Street at Nicholas Street                           25-76    6-14-76
Upper Eleventh Street at McKinley Avenue                     25-76    6-14-76
Twelfth and One-Half Street at Nicholas and Bayou Streets    25-76    6-14-76
Fourteenth Street at Wabash Avenue                           25-76    6-14-76
Seventeenth Street at Bayou Street                           25-76    6-14-76
Nineteenth Street at Hart Street                             25-76    6-14-76
Nineteenth Street at Main Street                             25-76    6-14-76
 
   (C)   Three-way stop streets.
Location Ord. No. Date
Location                            Ord. No. Date
Carbon Street at Mississippi Street 20-98    4-27-98
College Avenue and Bridge Avenue    63-78    11-9-78
Eighteenth and Buntin Streets       17-2008  10-27-08
Fifth and Busseron Streets          15-92    6-22-92
Fifth and Main Streets              15-92    6-22-92
Fourth and Busseron Streets         7-95     3-28-95
Fourth and Main Streets             8-94     3-29-94
North Fifth and Broadway Streets
McDowell Road at Ridge Road         25-76    6-14-76
Park Street at Tecumseh Street      25-76    6-14-76
Seventh Street at Bayou Street      25-76    6-14-76
Third and Busseron Streets          7-95     3-28-95
Third and Main Streets              8-94     3-29-94
Third Street at Perry Street        17-99    6-28-99
 
   (D)   Four-way stop streets.
Location Ord. No. Date
Location                                       Ord. No. Date
Bayou and S. Eleventh Street                   36-88    11-28-88
Bayou and S. Fifth Street                      36-88    11-28-88
Carbon Street at Indiana Avenue                18-2010  9-27-10
Day Street at Jefferson Avenue
Day Street at Reel Avenue                      2-99     2-8-99
Jefferson Avenue at Short Street               26-99    8-23-99
McKinley Avenue and Forbes Road                68-79    12-10-79
McKinley Avenue and Forbes Road
Short Street and Reel Avenue
Wilbur and S. Twenty-Second Street             36-88    11-28-88
First Street and Swartzel Avenue               25-96    8-12-96
Third and Broadway Streets                     63-78    11-9-78
Fifth Street and Busseron Streets              9-92     5-11-92
Fifth and Main Streets                         9-92     5-11-92
Seventh Street and Busseron Streets            41-2014  11-10-14
Seventh and Main Streets                       21-2016  5-9-16
Seventh Street and Vigo Street                 33-97    11-24-97
Eighth Street at Scott Street                  17-99    6-28-99
Ninth Street at Bayou Street                   17-99    6-28-99
Ninth Street and Vigo Street                   33-97    11-24-97
Tenth Street at Broadway                       26-99    8-23-99
Tenth Street at Main Street
Eleventh Street at College Avenue
N. Eleventh Street and Wabash Avenue
S. Eleventh Street and Nicholas Street         4-86     4-29-86
Upper Eleventh Street and College Avenue
Upper Eleventh Street at Wabash Avenue
Twelfth Street at McKinley Avenue
Thirteenth Street at College and Wabash Avenue
Fourteenth Street and Bayou Street             8-79     3-12-79
Fourteenth Street and Church Street            63-78    11-9-78
Fourteenth Street and College Avenue           63-78    11-9-78
Fourteenth Street and Wheeler Street           8-79     3-12-79
Fifteenth Street at Hart Street
Fifteen Street and Vigo Street                 49-98    11-9-98
Sixteenth Street at Bayou Street
Twentieth Street at Main Street
 
('71 Code, §§79.04, Sch. IV(A)-(D); 79.04, Sch. IV(A)-(C)) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. YIELD STREETS.
   The streets and parts of streets described herein are declared to be yield
streets of the city:
Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Location                                              Ord. No. Date Passed
Busseron Street at N. Thirteenth Street               4-86     4-29-86
Executive Boulevard at N. Second Street               4-86     4-29-86
Indiana Avenue at Ritterskamp Avenue                  4-86     4-29-86
Green Street at Indiana Avenue                        4-86     4-29-86
Minneapolis Avenue at Park Street                     4-86     4-29-86
Opell Drive at Ottensmeyer Drive                      4-86     4-29-86
Park Street at Reel Avenue                            4-86     4-29-86
Ridgeway Avenue at N. Fourteenth Street               4-86     4-29-86
Ritterskamp Avenue at N. Fourteenth Street            4-86     4-29-86
Swartzel Avenue at Park Street                        4-86     4-29-86
Swartzel Avenue at Short Street                       4-86     4-29-86
N. Eleventh Street at DeWolf Street                   4-86     4-29-86
N. Fourteenth Street at DeWolf Street                 4-86     4-29-86
N. Fourteenth Street at Ridgeway Avenue               4-86     4-29-86
N. Fifteenth Street at Wabash Avenue and E. St. Clair 4-86     4-29-86
Street
N. Twentieth Street and Broadway Street               4-86     4-29-86
 
('71 Code, § 79.04, Sch. VI(E))
SCHEDULE V. TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LOCATIONS.
   Traffic-control signals shall be located at the following intersections:
Intersection Ord. No. Date Passed
Intersection                          Ord. No. Date Passed
Busseron Street at Sixth Street       16-76    4-12-76
Hart Street at Kimmell Road           9-92     5-11-92
Kimmel Road at Ford Road              18-2010  9-27-10
Main Street at Second Street          16-76    4-12-76
Main Street at Sixth Street           16-76    4-12-76
Minneapolis Avenue at Sixth Street    18-2010  9-27-10
Vigo Street at Second Street          16-76    4-12-76
Vigo Street at Sixth Street           16-76    4-12-76
Washington Street at College Avenue   16-76    4-12-76
Washington Street at St. Clair Street 16-76    4-12-76
Willow Street at Fifteenth Street     16-76    4-12-76
Second Street at Hart Street          16-76    4-12-76
Second Street at St. Clair Street     16-76    4-12-76
Sixth Street at Hart Street           16-76    4-12-76
Sixth Street at Busseron Street       16-76    4-12-76
Sixth Street at Main Street           16-76    4-12-76
Sixth Street at Niblack Street        16-76    4-12-76
Sixth Street at Vigo Street           16-76    4-12-76
Sixth Street at Willow Street         16-76    4-12-76
Sixth Street at St. Clair Street      16-76    4-12-76
Sixth Street at College Avenue        16-76    4-12-76
Seventh Street at Hart Street         16-76    4-12-76
 
('71 Code, § 79.03, Sch. III) (Ord. 41-2014, passed 11-10-14; Am. Ord. 21-2016,
passed 5-9-16)
SCHEDULE VI. ONE-WAY AND TWO-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The streets and parts of streets described herein are declared to be
one-way streets of the city:
      (1)   Northbound streets.
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street        Location                                    Ord. No. Date Passed
Alley         From Main Street to Busseron Street located 1126     1-22-62
              between Third and Fourth Street
Alley         From Main Street to Busseron Street located 1126     1-22-62
              between Second and Third Street
Day Street    From Eberwine Avenue to Jefferson Street    57-2016  12-12-16
Fourth Street From Busseron Street to Hart Street         1126     1-22-62
Fourth Street From Busseron Street to St. Clair Street    1126     1-22-62
Eighth Street From Willow Street to Vigo Street           1126     1-22-62
Eighth Street Between Willow Street and Prairie Street    15-2015  4-27-15
Short Street  From Sycamore to St. Clair Streets          21-92    8-24-92
 
      (2)   Southbound streets.
 
Street         Location                                 Ord. No. Date Passed
Third Street   From Busseron Street to St. Clair Street 1126     1-22-62
Fifth Street   From Hart Street to Busseron Street      1126     1-22-62
Seventh Street From Chicago Avenue to Washington Avenue 1126     1-22-62
Seventh Street From Prairie Street to Willow Street     15-2015  4-27-15
Seventh Street From Vigo Street to Willow Street        1126     1-22-62
 
      (3)   Eastbound streets.
 
Street                   Location                     Ord. No. Date Passed
All alleys north of Main Between Fourth Street and
Street                   Sixth Street
Alley intersecting north Between Zip and Sip business 4-2004   3-8-04
Sixth Street             and Cardinal Liquor
Ridgeway Avenue          From Charles Avenue to
                         Washington Avenue
 
      (4)   Westbound streets.
 
Street                   Location                        Ord. No. Date Passed
All alleys south of Main Between Second Street and Sixth
Street                   Street
Main Street              From Sixth Street to Second
                         Street
Ritterskamp Avenue       From Washington Avenue to
                         Charles Avenue
 
('71 Code, § 79.02, Sch. II)
   (B)   Two way traffic.
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street               Location                              Ord. No. Date Passed
Busseron Street      From Second Street to Sixth Street    2-2003   2-10-03
Eberwine Avenue      From First Street to Day Street       57-2016  12-12-16
Locust Street        Between First Street and Second       33-97    11-24-97
                     Street
Sycamore Street      Between First Street and Second       33-97    11-24-97
                     Street
North Fourth Street  Between College Avenue and St. Clair  33-97    11-24-97
                     Street
North Fifth Street   Between Busserson Street and Broadway 12-96    4-23-96
South Seventh Street Between Dubois and Vigo Streets       12-96    4-23-96
Prairie Street                                             15- 2015 4-27-15
Third Street         From St. Claire to College Streets    33-2013  12-23-13
SCHEDULE VII. LIMITED THOROUGHFARE STREETS.
   The streets and parts of streets described herein are declared to be limited
to use by any vehicle, and no person, excepting persons traveling to and from
the residences and businesses on said streets, shall operate any vehicle upon
said streets during the hours so specified on any day except Saturdays,
Sundays, and legal holidays during the school year as determined by the
Vincennes School Corporation:
Street Location Time Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
Street            Location            Time Limit           Ord. No. Date Passed
Barnett Street*   From Seventh to     From 7:50 a.m. to 3:
                  Eighth Street       15 p.m.
                                      From 11:00 a.m. to
Buntin Street*    From Fifth to Sixth 1:20 p.m. and from
                  Street              3:10 p.m. to 3:30
                                      p.m.
                                      From 11:10 a.m. to
Buntin Street*    From Sixth to       12:20 p.m. and from
                  Seventh Street      3:10 p.m. to 3:30
                                      p.m.
                                      From 11:10 a.m. to
Perry Street*     From Sixth Street   12:20 p.m. and from
                  to Seventh Street   3:10 p.m. to 3:30
                                      p.m.
Day Street*       From Reel to        From 7:50 a.m. to 3:
                  Eberwine Avenue     15 p.m.
Eberwine Avenue** From Second to Day  From 7:50 a.m. to 3:
                  Street              15 p.m.
* Any barricades erected and maintained shall be movable barricades and placed
so as to leave one land open to traffic.
** Any barricades erected and maintained shall be of a permanent structure and
may be secured at the discretion of the Vincennes Community School Corporation.
 
('71 Code, § 70.09, Sch. IX)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE VIII. INTERCITY BUS ROUTES.
   (A)   Any intercity bus company duly authorized to operate buses upon the
streets of the city shall operate, maintain and provide service only upon the
routes as numbered and described in this schedule.
('71 Code, § 73.06)
   (B)   Intercity buses shall operate only on the following streets:
 
Location                                Entering City (Direction) Ord. No. Date
Vigo Street to Sixth Street, to
Busseron Street, to Seventh Street, to  From the west
bus terminal
Washington Avenue to Seventh Street, to From the east
bus terminal
Willow Street to Sixth Street, to
Busseron Street, to Seventh Street, to  From the south
bus terminal
Sixth Street to Broadway Street, to     From the north
Seventh Street, to bus terminal
 
('71 Code, § 79.08, Sch. VIII)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE IX. LEFT TURN LANE.
   Left turn lanes are established on the following:
 
Location                            Directions            Ord. No. Date
7th Street at Hart Street           North, east, and west 4-2023   4-10-23
Washington Avenue at College Avenue North and south       33-97    11-24-97
intersection
 
SCHEDULE X. NO PASSING ZONE.
   No passing zones are established on the following:
 
Location                                           Directions Ord. No. Date
Washington Avenue from Belle Crossing intersection East       33-97    11-24-97
SCHEDULE XI. ENTRANCES.
   Two-way traffic entrance/exits are established on the following:
 
Location                                           Directions Ord. No. Date
Washington Avenue from Belle Crossing intersection East       33-97    11-24-97
SCHEDULE XII. NO COMBINATION TRUCKS.
   Combination trucks are defined as vehicles classified as WB-40 or larger as
described by the American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Office (AASHTO).
 
Street          Location                               Ord. No. Date
Eberwine Avenue Between 2nd Street and Chestnut Street 6-2014   3-10-14
Reel Avenue     Between 2nd Street and Chestnut Street 6-2014   3-10-14
Swartzel Avenue Between 2nd Street and Chestnut Street 6-2014   3-10-14
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Prohibited parking
   
II.   Limited parking
   
III.   Restricted parking
   
IV.   Truck loading zones
   
V.   Snow routes
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
at any time upon any of the streets or parts of streets described in this
schedule:
Street  Location Side Ord. No. Date Passed
Street             Location                    Side     Ord. No. Date Passed
Audubon Road      From Washington Avenue to    South     1229      7-7-64
                  Ridge Road
Buntin Street     From Fifth to Fifth Street   North     1229      7-7-64
Burnett Lane      From Washington Avenue to    South     1229      7-7-64
                  Ridge Road
                  620 Busseron Street, between
                  Sixth and Seventh Street at
Busseron Street   the entrance of Knox                   29-2017   7-10-18
                  Superior Court, No. 2, Annex
                  Building
First Street      Between St. Clair Street and West      25-96     8-12-96
                  the alley in the 1600 block
Hart Street       From First to Seventh Street South     1229      7-7-64
                  north
Hart Street       From Seventh to Fifteenth    North     1229      7-7-64
                  Street
Locust Street     Between First Street and     South     25-96     8-12-96
                  Second Street
Main Street       From Seventh Street east 100 North     1229      7-7-64
                  feet
Mississippi       Between Sycamore Street and  West      33-97     11-24-97
                  Emison Avenue
Nicholas Street   From Sixth to Eighth Street  North     1229      7-7-64
Prairie Street    Between Sixth and Seventh    Both      7-2016    3-28-16
                  Streets
Prairie Street    From Seventh to Ninth        Both      14-2015   4-27-15
                  Streets
Rittercamp Avenue From Washington Avenue       North     20-98     4-27-98
                  eighty feet along north curb
St. Clair Street  From First to Chestnut       Southwest 17-92     7-27-92
                  Streets
St. Clair Street  From Sixth Street to         Northeast 1192      12-2-63
                  Washington Avenue
                  From Washington Avenue,
St. Clair Street  northwest corner, south-     Southwest 1229      7-7-64
                  westerly a distance of 130
                  feet
                  From Washington Avenue,
St. Clair Street  southwest corner, south-              1229      7-7-64
                  easterly a distance of 146
                  feet Southwest
Sycamore Street   Between First Street and     South     33-97     11-24-97
                  Second Street
Tecumseh Street   Between First Street and     North     25-96     8-12-96
                  Second Street
Third Street      From Sycamore to Scott                 33-2013   12-23-13
Third Street      From St. Clair to Sycamore   West      33-2013   12-23-13
Vigo Street       From Second to Seventh       Both      26-68     - -68
                  Streets
Washington Avenue From Seventh Street to       West      26-68     - -68
                  College Avenue
                  From St. Clair Street,
Washington Avenue northwest corner, westerly a North     1229      7-7-64
                  distance of 150 feet
                  From St. Clair Street,
Washington Avenue northeast corner, easterly a North     1229      7-7-64
                  distance of 150 feet
                  From St. Clair Street,
Washington Avenue southwest corner, westerly a South     1229      7-7-64
                  distance of 150 feet
                  From St. Clair Street,
Washington Avenue southeast corner, easterly a South     1229      7-7-64
                  distance of 150 feet
Washington Avenue At 2021 Washington Avenue             33-97     11-24-97
                  and to the corner
First Street      From Indianapolis Avenue to  East      1229      7-7-64
                  Harrison Street
Second Street     From Church to DuBois Street East      1229      7-7-64
Second Street     From Main Street to Niblack  West      26-68     - -68
                  Boulevard
Second Street     Between Vigo Street and      East      12-96     11-24-97
                  Patrick Henry Drive
Third Street      From Center Street to        Both      17-92     7-27-92
                  College Street
Fourth Street     From College Avenue to       Both      26.99     8-23-99
                  Center Street
Fourth Street     From Vigo to Main Street     East      1229      7-7-64
Seventh Street    From College Avenue to       West      26-68     - -68
                  Washington Avenue
Seventh Street    From Vigo Street to College  East      26-68     - -68
                  Avenue
Seventh Street    Prairie Street to Willow     Both      14-2015   4-27-15
                  Street
                  Seventh and Busseron Streets
Seventh Street    on the Knox County                     29-2017   7-10-17
                  Courthouse side of the
                  street
Eighth Street     From Willow Street to        Both      14-2015   4-27-15
                  Prairie Street
Eighth Street     From Broadway Street south   East      1229      7-7-64
                  100 feet
Fifteenth Street  From Broadway Street to Vigo West      1229      7-7-64
                  Street
 
('71 Code, § 79.05, Sch. V)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SCHEDULE II. LIMITED PARKING.
   (A)   When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no person
shall park a vehicle for a longer time than that which is stated by the signs
at any time, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. of any day except
Sundays and public holidays, within the district or upon any of the streets or
parts of streets described in this schedule.
('71 Code, § 74.19)
      (1)   Five-minute parking.
 
Street          Location                             Side Ord. No. Date Passed
Busseron Street In front of the Water Company Office Both
Fifth Street    Forty feet north of Main Street      East 25-96    8-12-96
 
      (2)   Ten-minute parking.
 
Street          Location              Side              Ord. No. Date Passed
Busseron Street From Fifth Street,    South
                east 150 feet
Perry Street    1301 Perry Street     Thirteenth Street 33-97    11-24-97
                                      side
Third Street    From Main Street,     East
                north to alley
Fourth Street   At daycare center on                    33-97    11-24-97
                Fourth Street
Fifth Street    From Busseron Street, East
                south 150 feet
Fifth Street    From Third Street,    East
                east 50 feet
 
      (3)   Thirty minute parking.
 
Street              Location                         Side Ord. No. Date Passed
                    127 North Second Street and 119
North Second Street North Second Street, 8:00a.m. to
                    6:00 p.m.
 
      (4)   One-hour parking.
 
Street              Location                         Side  Ord. No. Date Passed
Broadway Street     From Second Street, west 30 feet North
Buntin Street       From Fifth Street, west 60 feet  North
Buntin Street       From Fourth Street to alley      South
Indianapolis Avenue From First Street to Short       North
                    Street
Fourth Street       From alley between Broadway and  West
                    Buntin Streets to Buntin Street
 
      (5)   Two-hour parking.
Street Location Side Ord. No. Date Passed
Street            Location                           Side  Ord. No. Date Passed
Broadway          202 Broadway                             33-97    11-24-97
College Avenue    From Washington Avenue to Seventh  Both
                  Street
First Street      From Main Street to Broadway       Both  17-2008  10-27-08
                  Street
Nicholas Street   Between Sixth and Seventh Streets, South 12-96    4-23-96
                  and providing for tow in
                  From Washington Avenue to Brown
Sycamore Street   Shoe parking lot (Harold's         South
                  Supermarket)
Washington Avenue College Avenue to Wabash Avenue    Both
Second Street     In front of the Old Cathedral      Both
Eighth Street     From College Avenue to Wabash      Both
                  Avenue
 
('71 Code, § 79.06, Sch. VI)
      (6)   Tow-in Zone.
 
Street              Location                         Side  Ord. No. Date Passed
Hart Street         Between First and Second Streets North 12-96    4-23-96
North Second Street Between Broadway and Buntin      East  25-96    8-12-96
                    Streets, 6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
Reel Avenue         The 100 block                    East  2-99     2-8-99
 
   (B)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof no persons, excepting
persons operating school buses for the purposes of loading and unloading
students and service driver training vehicles for school purposes shall park a
vehicle upon the streets and parts of streets described herein during the hours
specified on any day except Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays during the
school year as determined from time to time by the Vincennes Community School
Corporation:
Street Location Side Time Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
Street           Location          Side  Time Limit        Ord. No. Date Passed
Buntin Street    From Fifth to     North From 7:00 a.m. to 34-76    8-10-76
                 Seventh Streets         4:00 p.m.
Buntin Street    From Seventh      South From 7:00 a.m. to 34-76    8-10-76
                 Street to alley         4:00 p.m.
Buntin Street    From Fifth Street South From 7:00 a.m. to 34-76    8-10-76
                 to alley                4:00 p.m.
                 From Reel Avenue        From 7:00 a.m. to
Day Street       to Eberwine       East  4:00 p.m.         49-98    11-9-98
                 Avenue
Jefferson Street From Day for half South From 7:00 a.m. to 49-98    11-9-98
                 a block                 4:00 p.m.
Perry Street     From Sixth Street South From 7:00 a.m. to 34-76    8-10-76
                 east 200 feet           4:00 p.m.
Fifth Street     From Buntin to    Both  From 7:00 a.m. to 34-76    8-10-76
                 Perry Streets           4:00 p.m.
Seventh Street   From Buntin to    West  From 7:00 a.m. to 34-76    8-10-76
                 Perry Streets           4:00 p.m.
 
('71 Code, § 79.10, Sch. X) Penalty, see §
70.99
   (C)   Parking permitted.
 
Street               Location                      Side  Ord. No. Date Passed
Main Street          Between Culbertson Boulevard  south 12-96    4-23-96
                     and First Street
North Seventh Street 124, 126A and 126B                  1-2013   1-28-13
                     North of German American Bank
North Third Street   and south of Broadway, 8:00   east  12-2012  6-25-12
                     a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Vigo Street          700 block                     south 33-97    11-24-97
 
   (D)   Loading zone parking.
 
Street            Time Limit                  Ord. No. Date Passed
424 Buntin Street From 3:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. 6-2013   6-27-13
 
SCHEDULE III. RESTRICTED PARKING.
   The following spaces described in this schedule shall be restricted
specifically for use of designated parking:
   (A)   Customer parking.
Location Number of Spaces Ord. No. Date Passed
Location                          Number of Spaces         Ord. No. Date Passed
217 College Avenue                One                      4-86     4-29-86
121 E. Tecumseh                   One                      4-86     4-29-86
106 Rosedale Avenue               Two, plus tow-away signs 4-86     4-29-86
1804 Washington Avenue, Old Town
Attic Antiques, customer parking  One                      20-98    4-27-98
zone
1400 Block North Second Street,                            20-98    4-27-98
30 minute customer parking zone
304 South Sixth Street on Barnett One                      33-97    11-24-97
Street side
502 North Eighth Street, customer One                      20-98    4-27-98
parking zone
 
('71 Code, § 79.04(H))
   (B)   Patient parking.
 
Location                                Number of Spaces Ord. No. Date Passed
400 N. Sixth Street (Perry Street side) One              4-86     4-29-86
 
('71 Code, § 79.04(I))
   (C)   Visitor parking.
 
Location                     Times                        Ord. No. Date Passed
702 North Fifth Street       6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. daily 17-2008  10-27-08
The 800 block of North First 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. daily 2-99     2-8-99
Street
 
   (D)   Tenants only.
 
Location               Number of Spaces Ord. No. Date Passed
1803 Washington Avenue                  12-2012  6-25-12
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, the loading or unloading of
trucks shall be done only in the zones herein listed.
Street  Location Side Ord. No. Date Passed
Street               Location                      Side Ord. No. Date Passed
Busseron Street     From a point 20 feet from      North           
                    Fourth Street, west 60 feet
                    Between Third and Fourth
Busseron Street     Streets from an alley, west 50 South           
                    feet
Main Street         From Second Street, west 40    North           
                    feet
Main Street         From a point ten feet from     North           
                    Fourth Street, east 50 feet
Main Street         From a point ten feet from     South           
                    Fifth Street, west 50 feet
Main Street         From a point ten feet from     South           
                    Fourth Street, west 50 feet
Main Street         From a point ten feet from     South           
                    Third Street, west 50 feet
Main Street         From a point 30 feet from      South           
                    Second Street, east 50 feet
Main Street         From an alley, west 50 feet    North           
First Street        From Main Street North to      North 12-96     4-23-96
                    alley, 8:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m.
Second Street       From a point ten feet from     East            
                    Main Street, north 60 feet
Second Street       From a point 20 feet from Main East            
                    Street, south 50 feet
Second Street       From a point ten feet from     West            
                    Busseron Street, south 50 feet
                    20 minute loading zone, 211
North Second Street North Second Street, 6:00 a.m.      33-97     11-24-97
                    to 6:00 p.m.
 
('71 Code, § 79.07, Sch. VII)
 
Street        Location                               Side Ord. No. Date Passed
Third Street  Between Main and Busserson Street from East          
              the alley, west 60 feet
Third Street  From a point 20 feet from Main Street, West          
              north 60 feet
Fourth Street From a point 20 feet from Busseron     West          
              Street, north 50 feet
 
SCHEDULE V. SNOW ROUTES.
   The following portions of the following streets are hereby declared to be
snow route streets:
Street  Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street             Location         Ord. No. Date Passed
Bayou Street      Sixth to Tenth    75-78     12-11-78
                  Street
                  Wheatland Road to
Bruceville Road   Hillcrest Ext.    75-78     12-11-78
                  Road
College Avenue    Second Street to  75-78     12-11-78
                  YMCA
                  Second Street to
Hart Street       Highway Bridge    75-78     12-11-78
                  (by VFW)
Main Street       Sixth Street to   75-78     12-11-78
                  Ramsey Road
Niblack Boulevard Second Street to  75-78     12-11-78
                  Washington Avenue
Portland Avenue   Second Street to  75-78     12-11-78
                  Oliphant Drive
St. Clair Street  Second to Sixth   75-78     12-11-78
                  Street
Vigo Street       Sixth to Tenth    75-78     12-11-78
                  Street
Washington Avenue College Avenue to 75-78     12-11-78
                  U.S. 50 Overpass
Wheatland Road    Sixth Street to   75-78     12-11-78
                  city limits
Willow Street     Second to Sixth   75-78     12-11-78
                  Street
Second Street     Willow Street to  75-78     12-11-78
                  Niblack Boulevard
Sixth Street      Vigo Street to    75-78     12-11-78
                  St. Clair Street
Seventh Street    Willow Street to  75-78     12-11-78
                  Washington Avenue
Tenth Street      Willow Street to  75-78     12-11-78
                  Hart Street
                  Willow Street to
Thirteenth Street Ritterskamp       75-78     12-11-78
                  Avenue
Fifteenth Street  Willow Street to  75-78     12-11-78('71 Code, § 79.11, Sch.
                  Hart Street                 XI)
 
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ABANDONED AND JUNKED VEHICLES
         
91.   ANIMALS
         
92.   FAIR HOUSING
         
93.   FIRE PREVENTION
         
94.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
         
95.   NUISANCES
         
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
         
97.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
98.   ALARM SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED AND JUNKED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Junk or abandoned vehicles declared a nuisance
   
90.03   Abandoned vehicles prohibited
   
90.04   Application of chapter
   
90.05   Responsibility and liability of owner of the abandoned vehicle or parts
   
90.06   Tagging abandoned vehicle or parts
   
90.07   Abandoned vehicle report; photograph
   
90.08   Vehicles or parts; duties of tagging officer; tow and storage of
vehicle or parts
   
90.09   Complaint by person owning or controlling private property
   
90.10   Abandoned vehicle report of public agency; request for name and address
of owner or lienholder
   
90.11   Means of vehicle identification not available; disposal without notice
   
90.12   Sales of abandoned vehicles or parts
   
90.13   Reserved
   
90.14   Towing contracts
   
90.15   Liability for loss or damage to vehicle or vehicle parts
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Ordinance Violations Bureau, see
Chapter 36
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. When used in conjunction with the term vehicle, means:
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally.
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for three
days.
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic on a public right-of-way.
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property, for more than 48 hours.
      (5)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission, or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property.
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or an ordinance other
than this chapter if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the
owner or the owner's agent within 20 days of the vehicle's removal.
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 30 days.
(I.C. 9-13-2-1)
   OWNER. A person other than a lienholder that:
      (1)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft; or
      (2)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft, through a lease
or other agreement intended to operate as security. (I.C. 9-13-2-121(c))
   PART. Refers to all components of a vehicle that as assembled do not
constitute a complete vehicle. (I.C. 9-13-2-122)
   PERSON. Except as otherwise provided in this section, an individual, a firm,
a partnership, an association, a fiduciary, an executor or administrator, a
governmental entity, a limited liability, a corporation, a sole proprietorship,
a trust, an estate or another entity except as defined under I.C. 9-20-14-0.5,
9-20-15- 0.5, 9-32-2-18.6. (I.C. 9-13-2-124)
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property. (I.C. 9-13-2-136)
   PUBLIC AGENCY. Local agency given the responsibility by statute or ordinance
for the removal, storage, and disposal of abandoned vehicles. (I.C. 9-22-1-3)
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or municipal property. (I.C. 9-13-2-144)
   VEHICLE. An automobile, a motorcycle, a truck, a trailer, a semi-trailer, a
tractor, a bus, a school bus, a recreational vehicle, or a motor driven cycle.
('71 Code, § 93.01) (Ord. 6-1970, passed 2-9-70; Ord. 10-92, passed 6-8-92; Am.
Ord. 21-97, passed 8-26-97)
§ 90.02 JUNK OR ABANDONED VEHICLES DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   The Common Council finds that inoperative, junk or abandoned vehicles which
are located in any place where they are visible from a public place or public
right-of-way are detrimental to the safety, morals, health and welfare of the
general public and a detriment to the economic welfare of the city by producing
a scenic blight which is adverse to the maintenance and continuing development
of the city, and such vehicles are declared a nuisance. The office of City
Inspector and the Police Department are given primary responsibility for the
removal, storage and disposal of abandoned vehicles as defined herein.
('71 Code, § 93.02) (Ord. 6-1970, passed 2-9-70; Am. Ord. 10-92, passed 6-8-92;
Am. Ord. 21-97, passed 8-26-97)
§ 90.03 ABANDONED VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall abandon, store, park or allow any mechanically inoperable
vehicle to remain in the open upon public or private property within the city
limits or within the perimeter around the city included under its jurisdiction
by the zoning ordinance of the city at any location which is visible from
public premises for a period of three or more days on public property or for a
period of 20 or more days on private property if the vehicle is at least six or
more model years old and mechanically inoperable unless it is in connection
with an automotive or repair business enterprise which operantes under a duly
issued and exhibited store license and is located in a properly zoned area.
(Ord. 10-92, passed 6-8-92; Am. Ord. 21-97, passed 8-26-97)
§ 90.04 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways.
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is an active duty assignment.
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot.
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrap yard.
   (E)   A vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12 as an antique
vehicle.
   (F)   A golf cart.
   (G)   An off-road vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-1) (Ord. 10-92, passed 6-8-92; Am. Ord. 21-97, passed 8-26-97)
§ 90.05 RESPONSIBILITY AND LIABILITY OF OWNER OF THE ABANDONED VEHICLE OR
PARTS.
   The owner of an abandoned vehicle or parts is:
   (A)   Responsible for the abandonment; and
   (B)   Liable for all of the costs incidental to the removal, storage, and
disposal of the vehicle or the parts under this chapter.
(I.C. 9-22-1-4) (Ord. 10-92, passed 6-8-92; Am. Ord. 21-97, passed 8-26-97)
§ 90.06 TAGGING ABANDONED VEHICLE OR PARTS.
   The City Inspector or member of the Police Department or Fire Department who
finds a vehicle or parts believed to be abandoned shall attach in a prominent
place a notice tag containing the following information:
   (A)   The date, time, officer's name, public agency, and address and
telephone number to contact for information.
   (B)   That the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned.
   (C)   That the vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours.
   (D)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all
costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal.
   (E)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of the
vehicle or parts within 72 hours.
(I.C. 9-22-1-11) (Ord. 10-92, passed 6-8-92; Am. Ord. 21-97, passed 8-26-97;
Am. Ord. 6-2007, passed 5-29-07)
§ 90.07 ABANDONED VEHICLE REPORT; PHOTOGRAPHS.
   If a vehicle or part tagged under §
90.06 is not removed within the 72 hours, the officer shall prepare a written
abandoned vehicle report of the vehicle or parts, including information on the
condition and missing parts. Photographs may be taken to describe the condition
of the vehicle or parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-12) (Ord. 10-92, passed 6-8-92; Am. Ord. 21-97, passed 8-26-97)
§ 90.08 VEHICLES OR PARTS; DUTIES OF TAGGING OFFICER; TOW AND STORAGE OF
VEHICLE OR PARTS.
   The officer, before placing a notice tag on the vehicle or parts, shall make
a reasonable effort to ascertain the person who owns the vehicle or parts or
who may be in control of the vehicle or parts. After 72 hours, the officer
shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to the storage area.
(Ord. 10-92, passed 6-8-92; Am. Ord. 21-97, passed 8-26-97)
§ 90.09 COMPLAINT BY PERSON OWNING OR CONTROLLING PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Upon complaint of a person who owns or controls private property that a
vehicle has been left on the property for at least 48 hours without the consent
of the person who owns or controls the property, an officer shall follow the
procedures set forth in §§
90.06 through
90.09. The property owner or tenant may make arrangements to have any such
vehicle removed at their own expense.
(I.C. 9-22-1-18) (Ord. 10-92, passed 6-8-92; Am. Ord. 21-97, passed 8-26-97)
§ 90.10 ABANDONED VEHICLE REPORT OF PUBLIC AGENCY; REQUEST FOR NAME AND ADDRESS
OF OWNER OF LIENHOLDER.
   (A)   Within 72 hours after removal of an abandoned vehicle to the storage
area under §§
90.08,
90.09, or
90.10, the City Inspector shall prepare and forward to the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles an abandoned vehicle report containing a description of the vehicle,
including the following information concerning the vehicle:
      (1)   The make.
      (2)   The model.
      (3)   The engine number, if any.
      (4)   The identification number.
      (5)   The number of the license plate.
   (B)   The City Inspector shall request that the Bureau of Motor Vehicles
advise the city of the name and most recent address of the person who owns or
holds a lien on the vehicle.
(Ord. 10-92, passed 6-8-92; Am. Ord. 21-97, passed 8-26-97)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state statute, see I.C. 9-22-1-19
§ 90.11 MEANS OF VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION NOT AVAILABLE; DISPOSAL WITHOUT NOTICE.
   If a vehicle or parts are in such a condition that vehicle identification
numbers or other means of identification are not available to determine the
person who owns or holds a lien of the vehicle, the vehicle may be disposed of
without notice.
(I.C. 9-22-1-21) (Ord. 10-92, passed 6-8-92; Am. Ord. 21-97, passed 8-26-97)
§ 90.12 SALES OF ABANDONED VEHICLES OR PARTS.
   The towing service or scrap yard may follow statutory procedures to dispose
of any abandoned vehicles or parts which are not claimed by the owner within
the allotted time.
(Ord. 10-92, passed 6-8-92; Am. Ord. 21-97, passed 8-26-97)
§ 90.13 [RESERVED].
§ 90.14 TOWING CONTRACTS.
   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts the Board of Public
Works and Safety may:
   (A)   Employ personnel;
   (B)   Acquire equipment, property, and facilities; and
   (C)   Enter into towing contracts; for the removal, storage, and disposition
of abandoned vehicles and parts. The Common Council may, by ordinance,
establish procedures to carry out this section.
(I.C. 9-22-1-31) (Ord. 10-92, passed 6-8-92; Am. Ord. 21-97, passed 8-26-97)
§ 90.15 LIABILITY FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE TO VEHICLE OR VEHICLE PARTS.
   The following are not liable for loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal, storage, or disposition of a vehicle or parts
under this chapter:
   (A)   A person who owns, leases or occupies property from which an abandoned
vehicle or parts are removed unless that person is also the owner of the
abandoned vehicle or is responsible for its presence.
   (B)   The city, the office of City Inspector, the Police Department, the
Fire Department, the Board of Public Works and Safety, the City Clerk-
Treasurer, or the Common Council.
(I.C. 9-22-1-32) (Ord. 10-92, passed 6-8-92; Am. Ord. 21-97 passed 8-26-97)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter, whoever interferes in any
way with the due process of enforcement of any of the provisions of this
chapter or whoever does not obey within the time fixed in any order pursuant to
this chapter shall be fined $50. Each motor vehicle involved shall constitute a
separate offense and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during which a violation occurs or continues.
('71 Code, § 93.99) (Ord. 6-1970, passed 2-9-70)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Definitions
   
91.002   Provisions are supplemental to state, city, and county laws
   
91.003   Schedule of fees for Animal Welfare Department
Animal Care Rules and Regulations
   
91.015   Adequate shelter, food, and water to be provided
   
91.016   Necessary medical care; provided when needed
   
91.017   Enclosures to be kept in sanitary condition
   
91.018   Removal of excrement
   
91.019   Keeping of large/farm animals
   
91.020   Restraint of animals
   
91.021   Fastening animals with rope or chain; choker collar
   
91.022   Cruelty to animals
   
91.023   Animal fights prohibited
   
91.024   Prohibited animal events
   
91.025   Poisonous bait
   
91.026   Abandonment of animals
   
91.027   Trapping
   
91.028   Public nuisance animals
   
91.029   Animals as prizes or inducements; sale of underage animals prohibited
   
91.030   Dyeing or staining animals; animals as novelties
   
91.031   Injury to animals caused by motor vehicle
   
91.032   Animals in vehicles
   
91.033   Lost or stray animals
   
91.034   Dangerous animals prohibited
   
91.035   Biting animals; report; procedure
   
91.036   Wild or exotic animals
   
91.037   Training methods
   
91.038   Destruction of animals
   
91.039   Dangerous wild or dangerous exotic animals
   
91.040   Feeding of waterfowl prohibited
   
91.041   Homeless cats
Registration and Commercial Permits
   
91.050   Pet registration required; exception; tags; microchip implant
   
91.051   Application for registration or permits
   
91.052   Fees
   
91.053   Appeal; denial or revocation of permit
   
91.054   Major breeder's permit
   
91.055   Minor breeder's permit
   
91.056   Veterinary hospitals/clinics
   
91.057   Grooming shop permit
   
91.058   Pet shop permit
   
91.059   Circuses, animal concessions and animal event
   
91.060   Zoological parks
   
91.061   Exception
Dogs and Cats; Specific Requirements
   
91.075   Vaccination required; tags
   
91.076   Dogs or cats in heat
   
91.077   Noisy dogs
   
91.078   Sale of puppies and kittens
Destruction of Animals
   
91.090   Definition
   
91.091   Substances permitted for use
   
91.092   Person authorized to destroy animals
   
91.093   Assurance of death prior to disposal
   
91.094   Funding
Administration and Enforcement
   
91.105   Director of Animal Control
   
91.106   Interfering with enforcement
   
91.107   Impoundment; redemption
   
91.108   Inspections
   
91.109   Disposition of money
Rental Horses
   
91.120   Definitions
   
91.121   Permits and administration
   
91.122   Housing/stable premises
   
91.123   Regulations
   
91.124   Excepted from coverage
 
   
91.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. A structure designed specifically to shelter an animal,
with a roof and three sides free of leaks or openings to the wind and rain, and
a fourth side allowing access that is protected from the elements. The
structure is physically located in a dry area allowing the animal dry keeping
and access outside the structure to dry ground that is mud free.
   ALTERED ANIMAL. An animal that has been operated on to prevent it from
procreating.
   ANIMAL. Any living vertebrate, domestic or wild, except a human being.
   ANIMAL CONCESSION. Any person, group of persons, partnership, or corporation
who for compensation has any animal available for hire or on display.
   ANIMAL EVENT. Display, activity, or show of wild or domestic animals in a
shopping center, retail establishment, adjacent lot, or elsewhere.
   ANIMAL FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA. Equipment or items used to train or condition
animals for participation in an animal fighting contest or materials to promote
animal fighting, the breeding of animals specifically for the purpose of
fighting, train animals for fighting, or to track the results of animal fights.
   ANIMAL WELFARE ORGANIZATION. Any not-for-profit organization for the
prevention of cruelty to animals incorporated under state laws.
   AUCTION. Any place or facility where animals are regularly bought, sold or
traded, except for those facilities otherwise defined in this chapter or by
state law.
   BREEDER. Any person who intentionally or accidentally causes the breeding of
a cat or dog or makes a cat or dog available for breeding purposes, or any
person who offers for sale, sells, trades, receives other compensation, or
gives away any litter of dogs or cats; excepting a litter of dogs or cats taken
to the Department of Animal Control.
   CATTERY. Any person or group of persons, partnership or corporation engaged
in keeping more than one unaltered cat or more than seven cats total.
   CIRCUS. A commercial variety show including animal acts for public
entertainment.
   DANGEROUS WILD or DANGEROUS EXOTIC ANIMAL. A wild or exotic animal, not
indigenous to the State of Indiana, not commonly found as a domestic animal,
that would create a potential risk to public safety, including but not limited
to, bears, wolves, lions, tigers, jaguars, leopards, cougars, alligators,
crocodiles, caimans, snakes and reptiles that are venomous, apes, baboons,
macaques, or any hybrid of like animal.
   DEPARTMENT OF ANIMAL CONTROL or DEPARTMENT. The municipally owned facility
established for the purpose of animal control, care, and disposition, as set
forth in this chapter, operated by and under the direct supervision of the
Director of Animal Control.
   DIRECTOR OF ANIMAL CONTROL. The Director for the Department of Animal
Control.
   GROOMING SHOP. A commercial establishment where animals are bathed, clipped,
plucked, or otherwise groomed.
   GUIDE DOGS. Dogs trained to assist the handicapped.
   KENNEL. Any person, group of persons, partnership or corporation engaged in
keeping more than one unaltered dog, more than five dogs, or the business of
commissioning, or training for a fee, or grooming.
   LARGE/FARM ANIMALS. Any cow, horse, pony, donkey, mule, goat, sheep, pig,
llama or any other kind of beast of burden, and also including livestock or
poultry of any kind.
   OWNER. A person having the right of property or custody of a dog or cat or
who keeps or harbors a dog or cat or knowingly permits a dog or cat to remain
on or about any premises occupied by that person.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, corporation or commercial establishment.
   PET. Any animal owned or harbored by any person, group of persons,
partnership, or corporation, except guide dogs, or police or canine
governmental dogs.
   PET SHOP. Any person, group of persons, partnership or corporation, whether
operated separately or in connection with another business enterprise, except a
licensed cattery, kennel or breeders, that buys, sells or offers for sale any
species of animal, wholesale or retail. A permanent physical structure
specifically designed and ventilated for the overnight and long-term housing
and sale of animals both wholesale and retail.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal which:
      (1)   Interferes with passersby or passing vehicles.
      (2)   Attacks other animals or persons.
      (3)   Trespasses on school grounds.
      (4)   Is at large or unrestrained.
      (5)   Damages private or public property.
      (6)   Barks, whines, howls or makes other sounds common to its species in
excess, continuously for 15 minutes or for an aggregate 20 minutes in a one-
hour period.
   RABIES VACCINATION. The injection, by a licensed veterinarian, of a dog,
cat, or other animal with a rabies vaccine licensed by the U.S.D.A. and
approved by the Indiana State Commission of Animal Health.
   RESTRAINT. Any animal secured by a leash or lead, or under the physical
control of the animal's owner or attending party, or within the real property
limits of its owner.
   RIDING SCHOOL or STABLE. Any place which has available for hire,
commissioning, or riding instruction, any horse, pony, donkey, mule, or burro.
   RODEO. A performance featuring bronco riding, steer wrestling, calf roping,
greased pig contest or bull riding.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for the purpose of hospitalization of animals or the diagnosis and
treatment of diseases and injuries of animals.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any living vertebrate animal normally found in the wild state,
with the exception of small, nonpoisonous aquatic or amphibious animals and
small cage birds.
   ZOOLOGICAL PARK. Any permanent facility or operation other than a pet shop,
displaying or exhibiting one or more species of non-domestic animals, operated
by a person, partnership, corporation or government agency.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04; Am. Ord. 8-2009, passed 10-13-09; Am. Ord. 25-
2010, passed 10-25-10)
§ 91.002 PROVISIONS ARE SUPPLEMENT TO STATE, CITY, AND COUNTY LAWS.
   The provisions of this chapter supplement all laws of the state and county
ordinances covering the same subject matter.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04)
§ 91.003 SCHEDULE OF FEES FOR ANIMAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The fee schedule for the Animal Welfare Department is hereby approved
and ratified as follows:
Return to Owner Fee
Return to Owner                                            Fee
First redemption                                           $30
Second redemption                                          $60
Third redemption                                           $120
Daily commissioning fee                                    $10
Drop-off of owned animal (when animal welfare can accept)  $50
Ten-day quarantine                                         $100
Adoption (dog)                                             $110
Adoption (cat)                                             $80
Adoption (small mammal)                                    $10
Adoption (small bird)                                      $15
Adoption (large bird or exotic bird)                       $50
Reasons of fire, death accident, no charge for first three $10 per day
acts of God/days
Reasons of arrest, seized for abuse, cruelty, abandonment, $30 plus $10 per day
court case holds
*Owner's request that Animal Welfare hold stray animal longer than the five-day
stray period must be approved by management.   
 
   (B)   Fees will be waived only at the discretion of the Director of the
Animal Welfare Department.
   (C)   Two copies of said fees are available for inspection in the office of
the City Clerk and are incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04; Am. Ord. 8-2009, passed 10-13-09; Am. Ord. 24-
2014, passed 8-11-14)
ANIMAL CARE RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 91.015 ADEQUATE SHELTER, FOOD, AND WATER TO BE PROVIDED.
   (A)   No person shall confine or allow his or her animal to remain outside
without access to adequate shelter from the elements.
   (B)   All animals shall have fresh, potable drinking water and be provided
with food that is nutritional for the species in adequate amounts to maintain
good health.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999 
§ 91.016 NECESSARY MEDICAL CARE; PROVIDED WHEN NEEDED.
   All animals shall be provided with necessary medical care in addition to the
required rabies vaccination.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999
§ 91.017 ENCLOSURES TO BE KEPT IN SANITARY CONDITION.
   All animals, where kept inside, or in a pen, tied, fastened, hitched,
leased, or enclosed by a fence shall be kept in a sanitary manner. The persons
responsible for the animals shall regularly and as often as necessary to
prevent odor or health and sanitation problems, maintain all animal areas or
areas of animal contact.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999 
§ 91.018 REMOVAL OF EXCREMENT.
   Persons responsible for an animal shall immediately remove the animal's
excrement from public lands or from the property of another, excepting a blind
person working with a guide dog.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999
§ 91.019 KEEPING OF LARGE/FARM ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep or permit to be kept on his premises any large/
farm animals as defined in this chapter for any purpose, except as provided in
division (B) of this section. This section shall not be construed to apply to
zoological parks, circus performing animals, exhibits or research labs.
   (B)   Any person keeping a large animal in the city at the time this chapter
is enacted may be permitted to continue keeping the animal; provided the owner
registers the animal with the Director of Animal Control and providing that a
variance is approved by the Common Council. If a variance is approved by the
Common Council, a registration form will be issued. Registration of the animal
shall not be construed as an exemption from the public nuisance restrictions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04; Am. Ord. 25-2010, passed 10-25-10) Penalty, see
§ 91.999
§ 91.020 RESTRAINT OF ANIMALS.
   All animals, except cats that have been neutered or spayed and are wearing
identification, or are ear-tipped or tattooed in the case of homeless cats,
shall be kept under restraint. Cats not kept under restraint are subject to
public nuisance laws.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04; Am. Ord. 10-2008, passed 12-8-08) Penalty, see
§ 91.999 
§ 91.021 FASTENING ANIMALS WITH ROPE OR CHAIN; CHOKER COLLAR.
   (A)   No animal shall be hitched, tied, or fastened by any rope, chain, or
cord that is directly attached to the animal's neck. Animals that must be tied,
hitched, or fastened to restrain them must wear a properly fitted collar or
harness made of leather or nylon, not of the choker type. This is not to
prohibit the proper use of choker collars in the training of animals. The tying
device shall be attached to the animal's collar or harness and shall be at
least ten feet in length and must have a swivel device on the anchor and collar
end to prevent tangling.
   (B)   No person shall chain their dog using an agitation collar; a collar
exceeding 1-1/2 inches wide for any dog under 60 pounds. Dogs over 60 pounds
shall not be tethered using a collar exceeding two inches in width.
   (C)   An animal that is tethered must have access to adequate shelter at all
times.
   (D)   A person shall not chain or tether a dog with a chain or tether that
weighs more than 1/8 of the dog's body weight.
   (E)   A person shall not tether an animal in a manner that permits the
animal to leave the person's property.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999 
§ 91.022 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   No person shall beat, cruelly treat, neglect, torment, overload, overwork,
or otherwise abuse any animal except that reasonable force may be employed to
drive off vicious or trespassing animals.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999 
§ 91.023 ANIMAL FIGHTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall permit or conduct any dogfight, cockfight, or other
combat between animals or between animals and humans.
   (B)   No person shall possess animal fighting paraphernalia and a dog, cock,
fowl, or bird bearing a scar, wound or injury consistent with animal fighting.
   (C)   No person shall attend an animal fighting contest.
   (D)   No person shall sell, purchase, own, harbor, give away, barter, breed,
or possess any animal for animal fighting.
   (E)   No person shall permit anyone to use any building, shed, room, yard,
ground, premises, vehicle or property, whether enclosed or not, for the purpose
of animal fighting.
   (F)   No person shall aid, abet, assist, act as judge or referee, bet or
wager money or other valuable consideration on the outcome of, be at, attend,
or in any way engage in the furtherance of, an exhibition of animal fighting.
   (G)   Each animal affected by the defendant's conduct may constitute a
separate offense for the purposes of prosecution, convictions, sentencing, and
penalties under this section.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999 
§ 91.024 PROHIBITED ANIMAL EVENTS.
   No person or group of persons or any for-profit or not-for-profit
organization, whether for pay or other compensation or for free promotional
purpose, shall conduct or allow any event involving contests between animals or
persons using animals in any form or manner except those events reviewed and
approved for public safety and the safety, well-being, and comfort of the
animals involved by the Department of Animal Control.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999 
§ 91.025 POISONOUS BAIT.
   No person shall set any type of poisonous substance or bait within the city
limits that is deemed harmful to any domestic animal; provided, however, that
controlled programs under the direction of the City Commission of Health or a
licensed extermination service may be excluded.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999 
§ 91.026 ABANDONMENT OF ANIMALS.
   No person shall abandon or cause to be abandoned any animal anywhere within
the city limits in any public or private place, way, or building.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999 
§ 91.027 TRAPPING.
   Traps discovered by the Department of Animal Control to have been unlawfully
set in the city may be seized.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04)
§ 91.028 PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMALS.
   No person shall own or harbor a public nuisance as defined in this chapter.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999
§ 91.029 ANIMALS AS PRIZES OR INDUCEMENTS; SALE OF UNDERAGE ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, trade, barter, or give away any
live animal, fish, bird or reptile as a prize for, or as an inducement to enter
a place of amusement; or offer such vertebrate as an incentive to enter any
business establishment or enter into any business agreement whereby the offer
was made for the purpose of attracting trade, for business other than
establishments selling animals as their primary business.
   (B)   No puppy or kitten that is under the age of eight weeks may be offered
for sale, trade or for other compensation or for free giveaway except a puppy
or kitten or litter or litters may be taken to the Animal Control Shelter.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999
§ 91.030 DYEING OR STAINING ANIMALS; ANIMALS AS NOVELTIES.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, trade, or barter any animal
whose appearance has been chemically altered by dyes or staining.
   (B)   No person or establishment shall sell, offer for sale, barter, or give
away chicks, goslings, ducklings or other fowl as pets or novelties.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999
§ 91.031 INJURY TO ANIMALS CAUSED BY MOTOR VEHICLE.
   Any person operating a motor vehicle who causes injury or death to an animal
shall stop at once, assess the extent of injury, and immediately notify the
owner, Animal Control Shelter, or Police Department of the location of the
animal.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999 
§ 91.032 ANIMALS IN VEHICLES.
   No animal shall be left unattended in vehicle when the conditions in that
vehicle would constitute a health hazard to the animal.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999 
§ 91.033 LOST OR STRAY ANIMALS.
   (A)   Persons finding a stray animal are to notify the Department of Animal
Control within 48 hours. At the discretion of the department, the animal may be
kept by the finder and a found report left with the department, to enable the
finder an opportunity to return the animal to its rightful owner.
   (B)   Upon demand by the Department of Animal Control any found animal will
be surrendered to the department and held for five working days, before a
disposition is made.
   (C)   Persons finding an animal are obligated to comply with all rules and
regulations of this chapter pertaining to humane care and treatment of animals,
while said animal is in their custody awaiting return to its actual owner.
   (D)   With the exception of the Vincennes Pet Port, the finder will be
considered the found animal's owner for the purposes of this chapter only after
the animal is in the finder's custody for 30 continuous days and places a
classified ad in the newspaper serving the area where the animal was found.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999
§ 91.034 DANGEROUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Ownership/possession prohibited. No person shall own, keep, or harbor
a dangerous animal within the city; provided, this section shall not apply to
animals under the control a law enforcement or military agency. For the purpose
of this chapter, an animal may be declared dangerous by the Director of Animal
Control if the animal exhibits vicious behavior in present or past conduct,
including but not limited to:
      (1)   (a)   Evidence that the animal has, without provocation, bitten or
attacked a person one time.
         (b)   Did bite or attack a person or an animal once causing wounds or
injuries creating a potential danger to the health or life of the victim.
         (c)   Could not be controlled or restrained at the time of a bite or
attack upon an animal or person.
         (d)   A dog that has been purchased, bred, sold, trained, or harbored
for the purpose of dog fighting.
      (2)   That in order to preserve the public health, safety, and welfare of
the community, the destruction of said animal is necessary.
   (B)   Determination and appeals procedure. Whenever an animal is declared
dangerous, the Director of Animal Control shall notify the animal's owner or
custodian of the declaration and the Department of Animal Control's intent to
euthanize the animal unless the determination is timely appealed hereunder.
Notice of the declaration shall be served either in person or by certified or
registered mail. The animal, if not already held in quarantine at the
Department of Animal Control, shall be surrendered to the Director of Animal
Control.
      (1)   Any decision of the Director of Animal Control under the provisions
of these divisions may be appealed to the Board of Public Works and Safety
(BOW). The appeal of the owner to the Board shall be in writing and be filed
with the Director of the Board within ten days after receipt of notification
from the Director of Animal Control that said animal has been found to be
dangerous. The disposition of any animal shall be stayed during the pendency of
such appeal. The animal shall remain at the Department of Animal Control during
the appeal process.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a written appeal, the Board shall provide notice
and conduct an adjudicative hearing in accordance with the terms of I.C. 4-21.5
et seq. Thereafter, the Board shall render a decision that said animal is
dangerous and must be euthanized, or is not dangerous and should be returned to
the owner. The decision of the Board shall be final and binding upon the city
and upon the appellant. This decision may be appealed according to the
provisions of I.C. 4-21.5-5-1 et seq.
   (C)   Costs. The owner of any animal which is impounded and/or euthanized
under this section shall be held responsible for payment of any expenses so
incurred by the Department of Animal Control, and failure to pay such fee to
the Department within 15 days after destruction or return of such animal shall
constitute a violation of the chapter.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04; Am. Ord. 8-2009, passed 10-13-09) Penalty, see
§ 91.999 
§ 91.035 BITING ANIMALS; REPORT; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The person responsible for any animal which has bitten a person or
another animal must report the incident to the Department of Animal Control.
Upon receiving the report of a bite, the shelter will quarantine the animal for
ten days with the place of confinement to be in the discretion of the
Department of Animal Control during the quarantine period, the animal is to be
securely confined and kept from contact with any other animal or person.
   (B)   During the quarantine period, the owner must provide a current rabies
vaccination certificate for his or her cat or dog that is being quarantined. If
proof of vaccination cannot be supplied, the animal will be vaccinated by a
veterinarian at the owner's expense before release.
   (C)   No person other than an Animal Control Officer or veterinarian shall
kill or cause to be killed any animal suspected of being rabid except in cases
of immediate self protection. If that occurs the person will retain the body
and immediately notify the Department of Animal Control.
   (D)   Violations of these quarantine provisions shall constitute a Class A
offense and may subject the responsible party to civil penalties under
§ 91.999.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999
§ 91.036 WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   No wild or exotic animal shall be kept within the city without the necessary
state and/or federal permits.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999 
§ 91.037 TRAINING METHODS.
   No animal may be induced or encouraged to perform through the use of
chemical, mechanical, electrical, or manual devices in a manner which will
cause or is likely to cause physical injury or suffering.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999 
§ 91.038 DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS.
   No person other than a duly authorized agent of the animal control shelter
may destroy any domestic animal within the city limits; provided, however, this
provision shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   A licensed veterinarian.
   (B)   Those persons acting in immediate self-protection.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999 
§ 91.039 DANGEROUS WILD OR DANGEROUS EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep, shelter, harbor, buy, sell, or trade within the
city a dangerous wild animal or a dangerous exotic animal as defined in this
chapter except as provided in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to permitted zoological parks or zoos,
circuses, educational, or medical institutions.
   (C)   Any animal found in violation of this section may be seized
immediately.
   (D)   The animal will be held in protective custody for seven calendar days
to allow an owner to locate a new and appropriate owner or housing for the
animal outside the city limits. If no arrangements have been made in seven
calendar days the animal will become the property of the city and disposition
may be made at that time.
   (E)   Costs. The owner of any animal, which is impounded and/or euthanized
or relocated under this section, shall be held responsible for payment of any
expenses so incurred by the Department of Animal Control. Fees will be paid
prior to release or relocation of the animal.
   (F)   Grandfather clause. Wolf-hybrids owned or harbored under this section
must be registered with the Department of Animal Control within 60 days of
entering the city. Wolf-hybrids must have no bite history. If any wolf-hybrid
bites, or has previously bitten, a human or an animal, the wolf-hybrid will no
longer be allowed to remain in city limits. All wolf-hybrids registered under
this section shall be spayed or neutered at the owner's expense prior to
registration. Wolf-hybrids not registered within 60 days of passage of this
division will be confiscated by the Department of Animal Control.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999
§ 91.040 FEEDING OF WATERFOWL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions.
      DOMESTIC WATERFOWL. Nonnative ducks, geese and swans not retained in
agricultural activities.
      FEED or FEEDING. The act of or furnishing of food or other substance.
      MIGRATORY WATERFOWL. Ducks, geese and swans native to North America.
   (B)   Prohibition of feeding. No person or persons shall feed, cause to be
fed or provide food for migratory or domestic waterfowl in lands or waters
publicly owned within the city. No person or persons shall foster any condition
to exist or continue, which results in a congregation or congestion of
migratory or domestic waterfowl within the corporate limits of the city.
   (C)   Penalties for offenses. Any person or persons found to be violating
this section shall be subject to a fine of $50 per offense, enforceable by the
Police Department. Each day any such violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense. The imposition of any fines under this section shall not
prevent the enforced abatement of any unlawful condition of the city.
(Ord. 14-2005, passed 11-14-05) Penalty, see
§ 91.999
§ 91.041 HOMELESS CATS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)    All homeless cat colonies shall:
         (a)   Operate in such a manner as to not constitute a public nuisance;
and
         (b)   Comply with all of the provisions of this chapter that provide
standards for the general care of animals;
      (2)   Any person who provides food, water or shelter to a colony of
homeless cats shall be registered with the Department of Animal Control or its
designee.
   (B)    Managed homeless cats. The Department of Animal Control or its
designee, in order to encourage the stabilization and reduction of the homeless
cat population in the city, may:
      (1)   Trap any homeless cat in a humane manner;
      (2)   Have the homeless cat surgically sterilized and ear-tipped or
tattooed by a licensed veterinarian;
      (3)   Release the homeless cat for adoption or other disposition in
accordance with the law, or to a colony caretaker who will maintain the
homeless cat as part of a managed colony of homeless cats.
      (4)   The Department of Animal Control may impound homeless cats in
violation of this chapter and dispose of the homeless cats in accordance with
applicable law.
         (a)   Any homeless cat impounded at the city animal shelter that bears
an appropriate ear-tipping or tattoo indicating it belongs to a managed colony
shall be returned to its managed colony, if the colony can be determined,
unless illness or injury present an imminent danger to public health or safety.
         (b)   Seriously ill or injured homeless cats with no reasonable
prognosis for humane rehabilitation for survival outdoors may be humanely
euthanized.
   (C)   Colony caretaker responsibilities.
      (1)   Colony caretakers shall abide by standard trap-neuter-return
guidelines devised by the Department of Animal Control or its designee
regarding the provision of food, water, shelter and veterinary care to the
managed colony.
      (2)   A colony caretaker shall not have ever been convicted of animal
cruelty.
      (3)   A colony caretaker shall not allow a cat(s) that is part of his/her
colony to become a public nuisance.
(Ord. 10-2008, passed 12-8-08) Penalty, see §
91.999
REGISTRATION AND COMMERCIAL PERMITS
§ 91.050 PET REGISTRATION REQUIRED; EXCEPTION; TAGS; MICROCHIP IMPLANT.
   (A)   Any person owning, keeping, harboring, or having custody of any dog or
cat over the age of five months must obtain a pet registration for such animal;
provided, however, that no pet registration shall be required of any animal
welfare organization, municipal animal control facility or governmental agency,
or guide dog. Animals belonging to those agencies or persons will be issued
complimentary registration tags.
   (B)   A durable tag stamped with registration number and year of issuance
will be provided to pet registration holders for each registration granted.
Dogs and cats must wear their tags at all times on their collars, except when
involved in any organized show, obedience demonstration, and training situation
or under the care of a licensed veterinarian.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999
§ 91.051 APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION OR PERMITS.
   (A)   Application for registration or permits may be made at the Department
of Animal Control or designated facility, or by mail, and shall include the
name, address of applicant, type of permit applied for, number and description
of animal(s), information regarding sterilization and appropriate fee.
   (B)   Registration and permits are to be issued for a term of one year, with
the exception of lifetime registration, commencing with the date of issuance.
Microchip implants may be registered for the life of the animal with the
Department of Animal Control. Owners must contact the Department of Animal
Control with changes of address or telephone. Failure to keep contact
information current may result in the inability of the department to contact an
owner. Animals will be held five days prior to disposition. The Department of
Animal Control will consider the registered microchip and/or tag owner to be
the legal owner.
   (C)   Upon issuance, the Department of Animal Control shall issue a
registration or permit in written form, which includes the number of the
registration or permit, type of registration or permit. In addition, the
Department of Animal Control shall issue a durable tag stamped with the
registration number and year of issuance for each pertinent registration.
Additionally, a durable tag will be issued for an animal that has received a
microchip implant upon national registration by the pet owner. The tag will
have a corresponding number to that of the implanted microchip and will display
a national, toll-free, 24-hour, seven days per week telephone number for the
purpose of animal and owner identification.
   (D)   The Department of Animal Control shall maintain records of the
identifying registration/permit number.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of any dog or cat to fail to
provide any dog or cat over the age of five months with current pet
registration as provided in this section. The owner of any dog or cat, which
dog or cat is over the age of three months, must also have in his possession a
current rabies vaccination tag showing that such animal has been vaccinated
against rabies as otherwise provided in
§ 91.075. Any owner of such animal who moves into the city for purposes of
establishing a residence or residing or who becomes a resident as result of
annexation shall have 30 days in which to obtain the permit required by this
chapter.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999
§ 91.052 FEES.
   In addition to all other fees required by law to be paid, the following fees
shall be paid:
   (A)   Pet registration.
      (1)   For the year 2005 which shall commence on January 1 and end
December 31:
 
Each altered dog or cat age five months or older                  $5
Each unaltered dog or cat age five months or older                50
Lifetime registration altered dog or cat age five months or older 30
Replacement tags                                                  5
 
      (2)   Upon a written statement from a licensed veterinarian setting forth
that the neutering of the animal shall constitute a threat to the health of
that animal, the payment of the permit fee for unaltered animal shall not be
required but the animal shall be classified as an altered animal for purposes
of permit registration and fees. Registration at the altered tag price under
this section will constitute agreement not to breed the animal. Doing so will
result in fines.
      (3)   Handicapped person. Any handicapped owner of a dog that is used for
seeing or hearing purposes shall be exempt from a permit fee.
      (4)   Senior citizen exemption. Any cat or dog owner 62 years of age or
older who owns an altered animal may receive his or her annual registration
free of charge, or lifetime registration at the price of an annual altered tag;
provided, however, that if the animal of any such person has not been spayed or
neutered, the person who is 62 or more years of age shall pay the same permit
fee and be subject to the above pet registration fees and charges as otherwise
required for any animal.
   (B)   Kennel/cattery permit.
      2 - 15 dogs         $50
   (C)   Grooming shop permit.
      Fee            $50
   (D)   Major breeder's permit.
      Fee            $100 plus any applicable kennel/cattery permit fee
   (E)   Minor breeder's permit. Any owner or person having custody of a dog or
cat that has delivered a litter, who chooses not to relinquish the animal to
the Department of Animal Control and also chooses not to have the animal
neutered, will be required to purchase a minor breeder permit at the rate of
$40 plus any applicable kennel/cattery permit fee.
   (F)   Pet shop permit.
      Fee            $100
   (G)   Circus, animal concession, animal event, and commercial animal exhibit
permits.
      (1)   Fee         $100
      (2)   Permits are to be issued for a term of one year, commencing with
the date of issuance.
      (3)   Prior to engagements, permit holders will furnish the Department of
Animal Control with a schedule of dates and times of exhibits or performances
so the Department of Animal Control can perform periodic inspections.
   (H)   Omnibus permit.
      (1)   Fee         $150
      (2)   This permit shall allow the holder to operate a kennel or cattery,
grooming shop, pet shop, and to be a major or minor breeder.
      (3)   The permit holder does not need to obtain individual permits in the
aforementioned areas, but all requirements for each of the aforementioned
permits shall be met before the omnibus permit may be granted.
   (I)   All permits will be issued after inspection approved by the Department
of Animal Control, provided all requirements of this chapter are met.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999
§ 91.053 APPEAL; DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person who is denied a permit or whose permit is revoked may
appeal the denial or revocation to the Director within 60 days of the date of
the denial or revocation of the permit.
   (B)   All requests for appeals must be in writing and addressed to the
Director; whereupon, the Director shall set the appeal for hearing within 45
days of the receipt of the written request.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04)
§ 91.054 MAJOR BREEDER’S PERMIT.
   (A)   A major breeder's permit shall be obtained by:
      (1)   Any person who intentionally or accidentally causes the breeding of
more than one cat or dog or makes more than one cat or dog available for
breeding purposes in a 12-month period; or
      (2)   Any person who offers for sale, sells, trades, receives other
compensation or gives away more than one litter of dogs or cats in a 12-month
period; excepting a litter of dogs or cats taken to the Department of Animal
Control;
   (B)   And such person shall:
      (1)   Not allow the birthing of more than one litter per female dog or
cat in a 12-month period;
      (2)   Furnish the Department of Animal Control with information on the
birth of each litter of dogs or cats as may be required by Department of Animal
Control to register that litter of dogs or cats with the Department of Animal
Control, and to be assigned a litter number for each litter;
      (3)   Further be required to register with the Department of Animal
Control the name, address, and telephone number of each buyer or new owner of
any dog or cat sold or transferred within five days after the date of such sale
or transfer;
      (4)   Transmit to the new owner or buyer the litter number of the animal
acquired, and the major breeder's permit number in order that the new owner has
assurance and proof that the animal was legally bred;
      (5)   Immunize all cats and dogs offered for sale, trade or other
compensation or for free giveaway (except an animal taken to the Department of
Animal Control) against common disease; in the case of dogs, against canine
distemper, adeno-virus parainfluenza, parvovirus, coronavirus, and
leptospirosis, and in the case of cats, against feline rhinotracheitis, and
panleukopenia;
      (6)   Not offer a puppy or kitten under the age of eight weeks for sale,
trade, other compensation or for free giveaway (except a puppy or kitten or
litters of them taken to the Department of Animal Control); and
      (7)   Furnish warrant of health for a period of not less than one week
with recommendation to have examined by a licensed veterinarian for each animal
sold.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999
§ 91.055 MINOR BREEDER’S PERMIT.
   (A)   A minor breeder's permit shall be obtained by:
      (1)   Any person who intentionally or accidentally causes the breeding of
a cat or dog or makes a cat or dog available for breeding purposes;
      (2)   Any person who offers for sale, sells, trades, receives other
compensation or gives away any litters of dogs or cats; excepting a litter of
dogs or cats taken to the Department of Animal Control; or
      (3)   Any owner or person having custody of a dog or cat that has
delivered a litter or caused the delivery of a litter, who chooses not to
relinquish the animal to the Department of Animal Control and also chooses not
to have the animal spayed or neutered shall cause the animal to be implanted
with a microchip and to register this dog or cat within 30 days of having
received notice to accomplish this procedure from the Department of Animal
Control.
   (B)   And such person shall:
      (1)   Be allowed to breed only one dog or one cat which results in the
birthing of a maximum of one litter in a 12-month period in his or any other
domestic household or establishment or any combination thereof;
      (2)   Not be allowed to offer for sale, sell, trade, receive other
compensation or give away more than one litter of dogs or one litter of cats in
a 12-month period; excepting a litter of dogs or cats taken to the Department
of Animal Control;
      (3)   Furnish the Department of Animal Control with information on the
birth of each litter of dogs or cats as may be required the Department of
Animal Control to register that litter of dogs or cats with the Department of
Animal Control, and to be assigned a litter number for each litter;
      (4)   Further be required to register with the Department of Animal
Control the name, address, and telephone number of each buyer or new owner of
any dog or cat sold or transferred within five days after the date of such sale
or transfer;
      (5)   Transmit to the new owner or buyer the litter number of the animal
acquired, and the minor breeder's permit number in order that the new owner has
assurance and proof that the animal was legally bred;
      (6)   Immunize all cats and dogs offered for sale, trade or other
compensation or for free giveaway (except an animal taken to the Department of
Animal Control) against common disease; in the case of dogs, against canine
distemper, adeno-virus parainfluenza, parvovirus, coronavirus, and
leptospirosis, and in the case of cats, against feline rhinotracheitis, and
panleukopenia;
      (7)   Not offer a puppy or kitten under the age of eight weeks for sale,
trade, other compensation or free giveaway (except a puppy or kitten or litters
of them taken to the Department of Animal Control); and
      (8)   Furnish warrant of health for a period of not less than one week
with recommendation to have examined by licensed veterinarian for each animal
sold.
   (C)   Any owner or person having custody of a dog or cat which has been
neutered within ten weeks after giving birth to a litter or who turns the adult
dog or cat over to the Department of Animal Control within ten weeks from the
birth date of the litter, will be required to purchase a minor breeder permit
at the rate of $10.
   (D)   Any owner or person having custody of a dog or cat which has delivered
a litter, who chooses not to relinquish said animal to the Department of Animal
Control and also chooses not to have the animal neutered, will be required to
purchase a minor breeder permit at the rate of $40 plus any applicable kennel/
cattery permit fee. The permit shall be issued provided all requirements of
this chapter are met.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999 
§ 91.056 VETERINARY HOSPITALS/CLINICS.
   (A)   All animals shall be housed humanely and in a sanitary manner.
   (B)   Veterinarians shall keep records of each animal accepted for
treatment, diagnosis, or routine health care.
   (C)   Veterinarians who engage in commissioning, grooming or other business
in addition to the treatment and/or medical care of animals shall obtain a
permit as herein provided.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999 
§ 91.057 GROOMING SHOP PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person who has a grooming shop as defined in this chapter shall
obtain a grooming shop permit.
   (B)   A permit holder has the right to request that any dog or cat accepted
for grooming be vaccinated against common diseases, and require proof of such
vaccinations be furnished to the shop operator.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999 
§ 91.058 PET SHOP PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person operating a pet shop as defined in this chapter shall
obtain a pet shop permit.
   (B)   (1)   The permit holder shall furnish the purchaser a written
statement at the time of sale containing the following:
         (a)   Date of sale;
         (b)   Name, address and telephone number of purchaser and permit
holder;
         (c)   Permit number of permit holder;
         (d)   Breed, description, approximate age, and sex of dog, cat, or
other animal sold. Small mammals, parrot-type birds, and fish not included;
         (e)   Medication and prophylactic immunization and dates administered;
         (f)   Internal parasite medication(s) and date(s) administered;
         (g)   A guarantee of good health for a period of not less than one
week with recommendation to have the animal examined by a licensed
veterinarian.
      (2)   The permit holder shall retain a copy of the written statement for
12 months from date of sale.
   (C)   The pet shop permit holder shall be further required to register with
the Department of Animal Control the name, address, and telephone number of
each buyer or new owner of any dog or cat transferred within five days after
the sale or transfer.
   (D)   The Animal Control Officer or Health Department may restrict the sale
of any animal suspected of being diseased or otherwise unfit for sale. An
examination by a licensed veterinarian may be requested at the expense of the
enforcement agency.
      (1)   The permit holder shall reimburse the enforcing agency's veterinary
fees if the inspection by the veterinarian concludes the animal to be unfit for
sale at the time of inspection.
      (2)   The inspection is to be made by a veterinarian within 24 hours of
the enforcing agency's determination that the said animal is not fit for sale.
   (E)   All pet shops herein defined and stores selling animals, birds,
reptiles and fish as pets shall take care to house animals in a sanitary
manner. Appropriate medical services, care, and housing shall be given
according to individual species needs.
   (F)   No puppy or kitten under the age of eight weeks may be offered for
sale, trade or other compensation or for free giveaway except a puppy or
kitten, or litter or litters taken to the Department of Animal Control.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999
§ 91.059 CIRCUSES, ANIMAL CONCESSIONS AND ANIMAL EVENT.
   Any person who is responsible for a circus, animal concession, or animal
event as defined by this chapter must obtain a circus, animal concession, or
animal event permit.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999
§ 91.060 ZOOLOGICAL PARKS.
   Zoological parks shall be issued complimentary permits at no fee.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04)
§ 91.061 EXCEPTION.
   No permit shall be required of the Department of Animal Control or animal
welfare organization; however, all other provisions of this chapter shall
apply.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04)
DOGS AND CATS; SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
§ 91.075 VACCINATION REQUIRED; TAGS.
   Cats and dogs over the age of three months must be vaccinated by a licensed
veterinarian for rabies. One-year and three-year rabies vaccine may be used as
per Indiana Administrative Code. Both cats and dogs must wear a current rabies
tag at all times attached to a properly fitted collar or harness.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999
§ 91.076 DOGS OR CATS IN HEAT.
   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a secure building or
enclosure so as to prevent conception except during instances of planned
breeding.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999
§ 91.077 NOISY DOGS.
   No person shall allow the continuous barking, yelping, whining, or howling
of a dog. The Animal Control Officer may take steps immediately to correct the
situation and cause the noise to be abated, either through issuance of a
citation or impounding the animal if no owner or agent can be found at the time
of disturbance.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999 
§ 91.078 SALE OF PUPPIES AND KITTENS.
   No puppy or kitten which is under the age of eight weeks may be offered for
sale, trade or for other compensation or for giveaway except a puppy or kitten
or litter or litters may be taken to the Animal Control Shelter.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999
DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS
§ 91.090 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMALS. Any animate being not human.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04)
§ 91.091 SUBSTANCES PERMITTED FOR USE.
   The Department of Animal Control, other animal shelters, and/or public
animal facilities which destroy animals in the city, shall use only sodium
pentobarbital or a derivative substance for said purpose.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04)
§ 91.092 PERSON AUTHORIZED TO DESTROY ANIMALS.
   Only persons trained in humane procedures by licensed veterinarians or by
registered animal technicians shall perform the destruction of animals in a
humane manner.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04)
§ 91.093 ASSURANCE OF DEATH PRIOR TO DISPOSAL.
   No animal's body shall be disposed of until all vital signs are checked
(fixed pupil, cessation of heartbeat and respiration) to assure that death has
occurred.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04)
§ 91.094 FUNDING.
   Sufficient funds shall be appropriated in each annual budget of the city for
personnel, drugs, equipment, and facilities necessary to administer humane
destruction of animals as specified in this subchapter.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 91.105 DIRECTOR OF ANIMAL CONTROL; ANIMAL CONTROL COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Department of Animal Control shall be operated by the Director.
   (B)   The duties and powers of the Director are as follows:
      (1)   To cause to be enforced all city ordinances and/or state laws
regarding animal care and control.
      (2)   To maintain and operate the Department of Animal Control's shelter
or shelters which have been designated for the humane sheltering or protection
and disposition of animals coming into its custody.
      (3)   To purchase all necessary materials for the proper and efficient
performances of the services and work required of the shelter consistent with
the city's duly established purchasing procedures.
      (4)   To cause to be picked up and transported to the Department of
Animal Control all unwanted animals, all animals illegally at large, and all
sick, diseased, injured, lost, strayed, stolen, or abandoned animals. Those
animals whose owners request may be promptly euthanized at said shelter. In
addition, any animal which appears to be ill and would pose a health hazard to
other animals, or any animal which is injured so that it cannot rest
comfortably for a minimum of five working days may be destroyed immediately as
so authorized by the Director or his/her authorized agent. All other animals
shall be kept at said shelter or place designated by said shelter for a period
of not less than five days to afford owners the opportunity to claim the
animal. After such period of time, unclaimed animals shall be placed in a
suitable home, retained at the shelter, released to an accepted rescue
organization, or euthanized. Animals released to the shelter by their owners,
or impounded animals not claimed within the legal time, become the property of
the shelter and disposition may be made at the shelter's discretion.
      (5)   To proceed upon public and private property within the city in
pursuit of animals believed to be in violation of this chapter. However, this
authority does not extend to a privately owned structure without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or other occupant in control of the premises or without
other legal process or authority. Any animal pursued under this section may be
confiscated and held by the Department of Animal Control according to its rules
and regulations. If an animal is confiscated without the knowledge or consent
of the owner or occupant of the premises, a notice shall promptly be affixed to
said premises in an obvious location, directing the occupant to contact the
Department of Animal Control providing the address and telephone number of same
on said notice.
      (6)   To cause to be picked up and disposed of all dead dogs and cats
found in or on any street or sidewalk, alley or other public place in the city.
      (7)   To cause to be investigated all reports and complaints concerning
any inhumane treatment or practices pertaining to animals within the city. To
cause to be impounded at the Department of Animal Control or suitable places
designated by the Department of Animal Control all animals found in conditions
adverse to their health and safety.
      (8)   To enter into contract with any municipalities or governmental
units or any person, association or corporation for the collection,
transportation, sheltering and disposal by said shelter for sick, diseased,
injured, illegally at large, lost, strayed or abandoned animals provided that
no such services be extended by said shelter outside the city, except under
written contract with the unit, person, association or corporation concerned
and at a charge based upon the actual cost of such services, including
overhead; provided that no such contract shall be effective except upon the
approval of city attorney or a duly designated associate, as to form and
legality, the approval of the Mayor, and the ratification by the Common
Council.
      (9)   To employ all personnel necessary for the efficient performance of
the duties required of said shelter.
      (10)   To prepare and submit to the Common Council through the City
Controller, an annual budget, for its financing of its operations and
performance of its duties.
      (11)   To submit to the Mayor, and to the Common Council, no later than
January 30 of each year, a report of its activities and operation for the prior
year.
      (12)   To establish reasonable fees to be charged to persons reclaiming
and adopting animals, and to collect such fees, such fees to be adopted only
after approval by Director and submission to the Mayor and Common Council for
approval and adoption.
      (13)   To provide that all dogs and/or cats released for adoption shall
be spayed or neutered, and provisions made for a program to monitor said spay/
neuter plan.
      (14)   Any violations of the animal adoption contract shall result in
impoundment of the animal. Return of the animal to the adopter will be at the
discretion of the Director
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04; Am. Ord. 8-2009, passed 10-13-09)
§ 91.106 INTERFERING WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   No person shall interfere with an Animal Control Officer in the pursuit of
his or her duties as an officer.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.107 IMPOUNDMENT; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Animals found in cruel, abusive or neglectful situations, animals
trained, bred or kept for the purpose of animal fighting, animals considered
dangerous, animals abandoned as a result of owner arrest, or animals that have
been abandoned may be promptly seized, provided, however, that the Animal
Control Officer shall leave written notice.
   (B)   Animals so removed will be impounded and held at the Department of
Animal Control or a designated facility, provided, however, that in no event
shall this period exceed five calendar days, at which time the animal shall
become the property of the Department of Animal Control. An animal may be held
longer if an extension is necessary for the Animal Control Officer to have
ample time to prepare a court case if prosecution is warranted, or a request
for a bond has been filed as provided in division (E) of this section. In the
case of animals impounded for quarantine at the Department of Animal Control,
the animal will become the property of the department if not claimed by closing
time of the department on the eleventh day of the quarantine. Owners requesting
quarantine but failing to claim animals at the end of the quarantine period
will be responsible for all medical, quarantine, and euthanasia fees.
   (C)   Animals impounded for reasons of tragedy beyond the control of the
owner, such as but not limited to house fire or death of the owner, will be
held for seven calendar days during which time a reasonable effort will be made
to contact the owner and/or their representative to make reclaim or alternative
housing arrangements. After the seventh day of impoundment, the animals will
become the property of the Department of Animal Control.
   (D)   Animals awaiting disposition by the courts shall remain in the custody
of the Department of Animal Control, unless such disposition is made, or placed
in a foster home until legal arrangements have been completed.
   (E)   (1)   Pursuant to impoundment of an animal under division (A), the
Department of Animal Control may file a petition with the court requesting that
the owner or custodian of the animal post a bond to cover the costs of care of
the animal while it is in the custody of the Department. This petition shall be
accompanied by an affidavit or statement of the department that sets forth an
estimate of the reasonable expenses that the department expects to incur
providing for that care. Reasonable expenses include but are not limited to the
estimated cost of veterinary care, food, and commission for the animal. The
owner or custodian of the animal shall be provided written notice of the
petition by personal service or certified mail. Any such mail shall be sent to
the last known residence, or, if this address, is not known, such notice shall
be sent to the address from which the animal was seized. Refusal to accept
certified mail or failure to receive mail due to other delays will not negate
this section.
         (a)   The court or hearing body to which the petition is filed shall
hold a hearing on the petition. At the hearing, the department has the burden
of proving that there is probable cause to find that the animal was the subject
of a violation as listed under division (A) of this section. If the court finds
that probable cause exists, the court shall order the owner or custodian of the
animal to post a bond to cover the cost of the care of the animal for a minimum
of 30 days.
         (b)   Bond must be posted within a maximum of three business days
following the bond hearing judgment. If bond has not been posted within the
allotted three business days, the animal shall immediately become the property
of the Department of Animal Control.
         (c)   Bond must be posted at the Department of Animal Control Shelter
in cash or certified funds only. The bond shall be deposited into the city's
general trust fund, in a subaccount specific for each case. The department may
draw on this account to cover the actual expenses incurred in the care of the
animal.
         (d)   If, at the end of 30 days, the matter for holding said animal(s)
has not been adjudicated, another bond must be posted. The renewal bond must be
paid no later than the close of business on the thirtieth day. If the thirtieth
day should fall on a weekend or holiday, the bond must be posted by the close
of business on the last regular business day prior to the weekend or holiday.
The bond must be renewed every 30 days thereafter until the matter is
adjudicated by the court or hearing body having jurisdiction. Failure to repost
bond at the end of any 30-day period will be considered voluntary
relinquishment of the animal(s).
         (e)   Upon conviction of the accused, the court or hearing body, at
its discretion, may order any remaining bond money and/or the animal(s)
forfeited to the Department of Animal Control.
         (f)   In the event of the acquittal or final discharge, without
conviction of the accused, the court shall direct the delivery of the animal(s)
and any bond posted, less any reasonable medical, housing, and administrative
costs.
      (2)   The bond is intended to cover but not be limited to housing and
feeding, emergency medical care, immunizations and routine medical care.
Animals displaying signs of illness or injury at the time of impound will be
treated immediately at the expense of the owner or custodian. Animals that have
not been inoculated for or are not current on inoculations for ailments common
to its species will be inoculated at the expense of the owner or custodian. Any
animal displaying symptoms of illness or injury which, in the opinion of a
licensed veterinarian, would cause undue suffering to that animal or pose a
substantial health risk to other animals in the shelter shall be humanely
euthanized immediately.
      (3)   This section applies to any and all animals housed at the Vincennes
Animal Control Shelter, or under the direction of the Vincennes Department of
Animal Control at a remote facility, irrespective of the agency that seized the
animals.
      (4)   Animals so removed may be transported to a licensed veterinarian
for examination and/or treatment. If, in the opinion of said veterinarian, the
animal must be destroyed, euthanasia will be performed immediately. Costs of
treatment, euthanasia, and/or care shall be the responsibility of the owner/
agent.
   (F)   A person may reclaim an animal in the custody of the Department of
Animal Control upon providing the following:
      (1)   Proof of ownership;
      (2)   Payment of redemption fee and any other service/medical fees, as
approved by the Director; and
      (3)   All animals shall be registered with the city prior to release,
including having the animal microchipped at the owner’s expense, or require
enforcement action to mandate registration.
   (G)   Stray or at-large animals will be held five days at the Department of
Animal Control.
   (H)   Unclaimed animals become the property of the Department of Animal
Control and may be placed for adoption or humanely euthanized, pursuant to §
91.120.
   (I)   An animal that has been previously impounded stray or at-large and is
now being redeemed for the second or subsequent redemption, will be spayed or
neutered at the direction of the animal shelter by a licensed veterinarian at
the owner’s expense prior to reclamation.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04; Am. Ord. 10-2023, passed 6-12-23)
§ 91.108 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of or perform any duty imposed by this chapter, or when there is
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building or upon any
premises any violation of the provisions of this chapter or state law, the
Animal Control Officer or Health Officer or police officer is authorized at all
reasonable times to inspect the same for compliance with the provisions of this
chapter or any state law; provided that:
      (1)   If the property is occupied, the officer shall first present proper
credentials to the occupant and request entry, explaining the reasons therefor;
and
      (2)   If the property is unoccupied, the officer shall make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other persons having control of the property and
request entry explaining the reasons therefor.
   (B)   In the event the Animal Control Officer, Commission of Health or
police officer has reasonable cause to believe that the keeping or maintaining
of an animal is so hazardous, unsafe or dangerous as to require immediate
inspection to safeguard the animal or the public health or safety, the officer
shall first present proper credentials and request entry, explaining the
reasons therefor. If entry is refused or cannot be obtained because the owner
or other person having charge or control of the property cannot be found after
reasonable search, the officer shall have recourse to secure lawful entry and
inspection of the property.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04)
§ 91.109 DISPOSITION OF MONEY.
   (A)   All money generated, received or collected by virtue of the provisions
of this chapter are to be set aside and placed in the general fund, except as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   All money received by the Department of Animal Control through
donations, gifts, bequests or devises shall be payable to the City Clerk-
Treasurer and deposited into a dedicated animal care fund (Fund 36) to be used
to promote the safe and humane treatment of animals in the city and county, to
pay for any reasonable expenses incurred promoting the proper care, treatment
and sterilization of animals and educating the public regarding the same. No
expenditure may be made from the dedicated animal care fund unless first
approved by the Director. The expenditure funds from the dedicated animal care
fund shall be subject to all state air local appropriation and purchasing
requirements. Any funds donated for a specific purpose shall be used only
consistent with the donor's specific request.
   (C)   All money generated, received, or collected in response to the
department's special fund-raising projects shall be payable to the City Clerk-
Treasurer and deposited in a dedicated Animal Control special fund (Fund 36) to
be used in a manner consistent with the announced purpose of any special fund-
raising event or project. No expenditure may be made from the dedicated Animal
Control special projects fund unless first approved by the Director. The
expenditure of funds from the dedicated Animal Control special projects fund
shall be subject to all state and local appropriation and purchasing
requirements.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04; Am. Ord. 8-2009, passed 10-13-09)
RENTAL HORSES
§ 91.120 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CARRIAGE HORSE. Any horse or pony which is used by its owner or any other
person to pull any vehicle, carriage, sled, sleigh or other device in exchange
for a fee. A horse rented or leased by its owner to another for any of the
foregoing purposes shall be deemed to be a carriage horse for the purposes of
this subchapter.
   RENTAL HORSE BUSINESS. A business enterprise which operates a horse drawn
vehicle for hire such as a horse drawn cab, or offers the use of a horse to the
public for a fee for the purpose of riding or pulling a horse drawn vehicle.
   STABLE. Any place, establishment, or facility where one or more rental
horses are housed or maintained.
   WORK. A horse is considered to be at work when it is out of its stable and
presented to the public as being available for riding, pulling carriages,
vehicles or other device, or when it is saddled or in harness.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04)
§ 91.121 PERMITS AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   It shall constitute a violation of this subchapter for any person or
corporation to use or offer for use a horse in a rental horse business without
a license issued pursuant to the regulations and conditions set out
hereinafter. No owner or operator of a rental horse business shall permit a
carriage driver to operate without a valid chauffeur or operator's permit to
drive.
   (B)   Licenses shall be issued for a term of one year and shall be renewed
annually.
   (C)   An application for a license or renewal of a license shall be made to
the Department of Animal Control. Applications for renewal must be submitted no
later than ten working days prior to expiration of the current license. All
such applications shall contain the name and address of the owner of the horse
and the rental horse business in which such horse is to be used. The horse
shall be identified by breed, age, sex, color, markings, and the location of
the stables where the horse is to be kept, recorded on a veterinary certificate
provided by the Department of Animal Control. No license shall be transferable.
Upon the transfer of ownership or use of any horse to a new owner or operator
shall obtain a new license for such horse within 30 days of the transfer date.
   (D)   The annual fee for a license or renewal shall be $25 for carriage
horses and $10 for riding horses, and shall be paid upon submission of an
application to the Department of Animal Control.
   (E)   Each horse licensed for use pursuant to these regulations shall be
assigned an official identification number unique to that horse during the
duration of its use by the rental horse business.
   (F)   An owner or operator of a rental horse business shall keep an accurate
daily record of the movement of each licensed horse including driver's name,
horse's identification number, vehicle license place number, time of leaving
stable and time of return to stable. Such records shall be kept on the premises
of the stable where rental horses are kept or maintained and shall be made
available to the Department of Animal Control upon request.
   (G)   An owner or operator of a rental horse business shall make the stable
in which horses used in the rental business are kept open for inspection at all
reasonable times by authorized personnel of the Department of Animal Control to
enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999
§ 91.122 HOUSING/STABLE PREMISES.
   (A)   Walls and ceilings. Walls and ceilings shall be kept clean, in good
repair, and free of physical hazards at all times. Stall walls shall be
constructed of a safe and secure material, with commissioning set beginning at
ground level and close enough to prevent the "casting" of a horse.
   (B)   Floors. Floors shall be level and free of holes or openings, and shall
provide proper drainage. No horse shall be stabled on a concrete floor without
adequate cushioning.
   (C)   Storage areas. Feed shall be kept in storage areas constructed to
permit extermination treatment in order to be made rodent and insect proof.
Feed storage area shall allow no harborage and be kept vermin free. Storage of
feed concentrates shall be in an area inaccessible to the horses.
   (D)   Ventilation. Adequate ventilation shall be maintained, but rental
horses shall not be unnecessarily exposed to drafts in stables during cold
weather. All stable areas shall be adequately lighted by natural or artificial
means so as to permit effective and safe activities through day and night.
   (E)   General sanitation. All interior areas of a stable and all exterior
areas surrounding a stable shall be kept clean, properly drained, and free of
nuisances including, but not limited to, odors and accumulation of refuse or
excrement. Manure accumulations shall be removed from the premises weekly to
prevent rodent and vermin activity.
   (F)   Stalls. Each stall shall house only one horse or pony. Stalls shall be
attended to daily ensuring clean and dry sufficient bedding of straw, shavings,
or other suitable material which shall be changed as often as necessary to
maintain them. The ceiling and shortest wall of the stall shall measure three
feet greater than the height of the horse at the withers.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999 
§ 91.123 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Horses shall not be left untethered or unattended except when confined
in a stable or other enclosure.
   (B)    While at work, rental horses shall be allowed to drink. However, a
rental horse shall not be allowed to drink in large quantities unless it is
first rested. Water shall be offered at frequent periods throughout the day or
in the case of horses not at work, water shall be available at all times.
Troughs shall be cleaned daily. Sufficient nutritional foods and water shall be
provided free of dust, mold, vermin and other contaminants. Rental horses shall
be fed at least twice daily with the larger feeding being provided after the
horse has completed work.
   (C)   Certified weights of all horses and horse drawn vehicles shall be
registered with the Department of Animal Control annually. At the discretion of
the Department of Animal Control, when supported by the opinion of a consulting
veterinarian, a rental horse within a business may be restricted in regard to
pulling/riding capacity, based on individual characteristics and abilities.
   (D)   No rental horse shall be at work for more than eight hours a day.
There shall be a rest period of 15 minutes for every two working hours. During
such rest periods, the person in charge of such horse shall make fresh water
available to the horse.
   (E)   Rental horses shall not be worked in temperatures below -10° F., with
wind chill factor applied. At no time shall a rental horse be at work when the
sum of the relative humidity and ambient temperature exceeds 160°. For the
purposes of this division, temperatures shall be those measured downtown and
broadcast by the local radio stations. An operator of a rental horse already at
work at the time the temperatures reach the above-described conditions shall
return the passengers to the point of loading and rest the horse in sheltered
conditions. Thereafter, such horses may be worked only when the weather
conditions once again reach acceptable limits.
   (F)   Rental horses shall not work on a public highway, street or path
during adverse weather or other conditions which are a threat to the health or
safety of the horse or the public. Adverse weather conditions may include, but
shall not be restricted to snow, ice, heavy rain or other slippery conditions.
   (G)   Carriage companies shall equip all carriages/horses with a manure-
catching device for use at all times while working.
   (H)   No horse-drawn carriage shall be driven at a speed faster than a trot
at any time. All such carriages shall adhere to state law on slow-moving
vehicles. No horse drawn carriage shall be operated between the hours of 7:00
a.m. through 9:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. through 6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
   (I)   Every horse whose use requires a license hereunder shall be examined
by a veterinarian prior to its use in a rental horse business, and thereafter
at intervals of not less than once a year. The horse shall be examined and
treated for internal parasites. Its general physical condition shall be
evaluated, which examination shall include, but not be limited to, inspection
of teeth, hooves, and shoes, and for its physical ability to perform the work
or duties required of it. The examination shall also include a record of any
injury, disease, or deficiency observed by the veterinarian at the time,
together with any prescription or professional recommendation regarding humane
correction or disposition of the same. An Indiana health certificate containing
the above information and signed by the examining veterinarian shall be
maintained at the stable premises at which such horse is located, and shall
contain the identification number, age, and condition of the horse.
   (J)   The rental horse business shall take immediate action to obtain
veterinary treatment, care, and attention when any horse is or becomes sick,
diseased, lame, or injured. If a horse dies while at work or in the stable
area, or is involved in an accident resulting in an injury to a horse, the
Department of Animal Control shall be notified immediately.
   (K)   A horse covered by this subchapter which is or becomes lame or suffers
from a physical condition or illness making it unsuitable for work shall be
removed from work by the rental horse business or may be ordered removed from
work by the Department of Animal Control. In the event of a dispute regarding
such physical condition or illness, the Department may require that a rental
horse be examined by a veterinarian in order to determine its ability to safely
work as a rental horse. The cost of any such examination shall be borne solely
by the rental horse company. A horse which has been removed from work under
this division shall not be returned to work until it has recovered from the
condition which caused removal from work, or until such condition has improved
sufficiently that its return to work will not aggravate the condition or
otherwise endanger the health of the horse. A violation of this section shall
be presumed if a horse is found at work in a sick or disabled condition within
48 hours after its removal from work for the same condition which caused such
removal. Such presumption may be rebutted by offering a written statement from
a veterinarian who examined the horse after the time of removal from work but
prior to its return to work, which statement sets out the veterinarian's
professional evaluation of the condition and his/her opinion that it was
suitable for the horse to return to work prior to the expiration of the 48-hour
period. This statement shall be carried with the horse during the presumed 48-
hour recovery period, and provided to the Department of Animal Control upon
request.
   (L)   Saddles, blankets, harnesses, bridles and bits and all other equipment
shall be properly fitted to each horse and kept in good repair.
   (M)   Horses shall be kept clean while at work and in the stable. Horses
shall be trimmed and shod a minimum of once every six weeks or sooner if
necessary.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04) Penalty, see
§ 91.999 
§ 91.124 EXCEPTED FROM COVERAGE.
   Rental horse businesses as defined in
§ 91.120 are excepted from coverage under
§ 91.060 and are governed solely by the licensing provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violators shall be fined as follows: Any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be fined for each offense, in any sum not less
than $50 nor more than $2,500, and each day's violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   Upon finding of violations of this chapter, the court may order
relinquishment of an animal(s) deemed to be a public safety risk and/or a
repetitive public nuisance that has not been abated or an animal that is a
victim of cruelty, neglect, or abandonment, to the Department of Animal Control
for disposition.
   (C)   Upon finding of violation of sections pertaining to animal fighting,
public safety, and animal cruelty or neglect, the court may order no animal
ownership for a determinate period.
   (D)   In the event that an animal is retained at the Department of Animal
Control because its owner has been in violation of this chapter, the person
redeeming the animal by paying the prescribed fees shall also be subject to
paying for medical bills incurred for routine shots for animals at the
department.
   (E)   Violations of this chapter may result in immediate impoundment of
animal(s).
   (F)   Violation of any provision of this chapter may result in revocation of
any permit(s).
(Ord. 14-2004, passed 12-13-04)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Policy statement
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful practice
   
92.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
92.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
92.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
92.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
92.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
92.09   Exemptions
   
92.10   Administrative enforcement of ordinance
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the city to provide within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 4-93, passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 2-2013, passed 2-25-13)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (see IC 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. (See IC 22-9.5-2-3) the Indiana Civil Rights Commission created
pursuant to I.C. 22-9-1-4, et seq.
   COMPLAINANT. (See IC 22-9.5-2-4.) A person, including the Commission, who
files a complaint under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
92.04 through
92.08 or IC 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (see IC 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of
18 years) being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody
of such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
The protections afforded against discrimination on this basis of familial
status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of
securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (see IC 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in the definition of FAMILIAL STATUS above.
Also, pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5, the definitions of FAMILY is revised to
include families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual orientation,
gender identity, or marital status of its members.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person's major life activities,
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment, or
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment,
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9.5-2-10.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addiction to a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of
the United States Code (see IC 22-9.5-2-10(b)) nor does it include an
individual solely because that individual is a transvestite (see IC 22-9.5-2-10
(c)).
   PERSON. (See IC 22-9.5-2-11) includes one or more individuals, corporations,
partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual
companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations,
trustees, trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code,
receivers, and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. (See IC 22-9.5-2-13) includes to lease, to sublease, to let and
otherwise to grant for a consideration the right to occupy the premises owned
by the occupant.
(Ord. 4-93, passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 2-2013, passed 2-25-13)
§ 92.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
92.09, and IC 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth IC 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
92.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and IC 22-9.5-
3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
92.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale, the
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single- family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
excepted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker; agent or salesman, or person and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
92.04(C) of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title, or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein, or
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein, or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 4-93, passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 2-2013, passed 2-25-13)
§ 92.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
92.03 and except as exempted by §§
92.03(B) and
92.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person; or
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this division, discrimination includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford
such person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1988, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (I)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans With
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for buildings
and facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as "ANSI A117.1") suffices to satisfy the requirements
of division (H)(3)(c) above.
   (J)   Nothing in this division requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 4-93, passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 2-2013, passed 2-25-13)
§ 92.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term "residential real estate-related
transaction" means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 4-93, passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 2-2013, passed 2-25-13)
§ 92.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 4-93, passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 2-2013, passed 2-25-13)
§ 92.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
92.03,
92.04,
92.05, or
92.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 4-93, passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 2-2013, passed 2-25-13)
§ 92.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injure, intimidate or interfere with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A));
or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according
to local, state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined
not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if
death results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for
life.
(Ord. 4-93, passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 2-2013, passed 2-25-13)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, "housing for
older persons" means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state civil
rights commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program); or
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per
unit.
(Ord. 4-93, passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 2-2013, passed 2-25-13)
§ 92.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
division (B) below, shall be vested in the Chief Executive Officer of the city.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the city, because
of a lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of this chapter by
complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Chief Elected Officer of
the city shall refer all said complaints to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission
as provided for under division (A) of this section to the Commission for
purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for
under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the city shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the city or the Chief Elected Official’s
designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any aggrieved
person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 4-93, passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 2-2013, passed 2-25-13)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates the provisions of §
92.08 shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned not more than one
year, or both; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than
$10,000, or imprisoned for not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 4-93, passed 3-9-93)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Open Burning
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Authorization upon showing of necessity or cause
   
93.03   Burning of garbage, natural growth, wood products and other waste
materials restricted
   
93.04   Exemptions
   
93.05   Enforcement
   
93.06   Disposition of fines
Fireworks
   
93.20   Purpose
   
93.21   Prohibition of fireworks
   
93.22   Definitions
   
93.23   Discharge prohibited; exception
   
93.24   Times
   
93.25   Nuisance; unsafe use; public/private property
   
93.26   Parental responsibility
   
93.27   Liability for fire and other damage
   
93.28   Local permit to sell fireworks
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Hazardous materials emergency action reimbursement, see §
35.31.1
OPEN BURNING
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible animal solid, vegetable solid and semi-solid wastes
resulting from the processing, handling, preparation, cooking, service or
consumption of food or food materials.
   INCINERATOR. A mechanical facility used to burn waste substances where
combustion factors of temperature, retention time and air are controlled.
   MATERIAL. All biodegradable and non-biodegradable substances including
garbage, rubbish, ashes, commercial, industrial, and institutional wastes, wood
and wood products.
   NATURAL GROWTH. Trees, brush or other vegetation in its natural state,
either dead or alive.
   OPEN. As used in “open burning” means: The products of combustion are
emitted directly into the open air without passing through a stack or chimney;
or combustion occurs in a device other than an approved incinerator or boiler.
   OPEN BURNING. The combustion of any matter in the open or in an open dump.
   STACK or CHIMNEY. A flue or conduit connecting an enclosing device with the
open air which permits particulates or gases to escape.
   WOOD PRODUCTS. Material derived from or consisting of wood or vegetation
such as paper, cardboard, rags, boards, branches, brush, grass, leaves and
other similar materials.
('71 Code, § 91.05(C)) (Ord. 73-77, passed 12-12-77)
§ 93.02 AUTHORIZATION UPON SHOWING OF NECESSITY OR CAUSE.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Chief of the Fire Department may
authorize open burning upon a showing of necessity and/or good cause.
('71 Code, § 91.05(D)) (Ord. 73-77, passed 12-12-77)
§ 93.03 BURNING OF GARBAGE, NATURAL GROWTH, WOOD PRODUCTS AND OTHER WASTE
MATERIALS RESTRICTED.
   No person or entity shall open burn any garbage, natural growth, wood
products and other waste materials in the city. Burning of any such garbage,
natural growth, wood products and other waste materials shall be permitted only
when conducted within an enclosed incinerator by the Chief of the Fire
Department.
('71 Code, § 91.05(A)) (Ord. 73-77, passed 12-12-77)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   Exempt from this chapter are fires celebrating Twelfth Night Ceremonies;
fires celebrating school pep rallies; fires celebrating scout activities; camp
fires; fires in unsubdivided and/or agriculture lands within the City of
Vincennes; and other fires used solely for recreational purposes where such
fires are properly controlled and managed and fires in residential fireplaces.
('71 Code, § 91.05((B)) (Ord. 73-77, passed 12-12-77; Am. Ord. 47-98, passed
11-9-98)
§ 93.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Fire Department is authorized to enforce this chapter and may issue
citations for violations as set forth herein. The Police Department and the
City Inspector are also authorized to issue ordinance violation citations in
furtherance of the purpsoes of this chapter.
(Ord. 22-92, passed 8-24-92)
§ 93.06 DISPOSITION OF FINES.
   Fines collected from enforcement of this chapter shall be held by the City
Clerk-Treasurer in a dedicated fund to be used for the needs of the Fire
Department. Expenditures from the fund shall be at the request of the Fire
Department Chief's request with approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 22-92, passed 8-24-92)
FIREWORKS
§ 93.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to prevent the unauthorized use of
fireworks which causes a public nuisance and adversely affects the city.
(Ord. 20-2014, passed 7-28-14)
§ 93.21 PROHIBITION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-11-14-10.5 a "fireworks use ordinance" means an
ordinance that regulates any of the following:
      (1)   The days and hours when consumer fireworks may be used, ignited, or
discharged.
      (2)   The locations where consumer fireworks may be used, ignited, or
discharged.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter:
      (1)   A county may adopt a fireworks use ordinance covering the
unincorporated areas of the county; and
      (2)   A municipality may adopt a fireworks use ordinance covering the
area within the corporate limits of the municipality.
   (C)   A fireworks use ordinance:
      (1)   May limit the use of fireworks:
         (a)   In the unincorporated areas of the county if adopted by a
county; and
         (b)   In the municipality if adopted by a municipality;
      (2)   May not be more lenient than a rule adopted by a state agency
concerning the use of fireworks; and
      (3)   The city specifically permits fireworks use:
         (a)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on
June 29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8 and
July 9;
         (b)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4;
and
         (c)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1 and at other times by special permit.
   (D)   The power to enforce a noise ordinance by a county or a municipality
is not affected by the county's or municipality's action or lack of action
under this section.
(Ord. 20-2014, passed 7-28-14) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The terms CONSUMER FIREWORKS, SPECIAL FIREWORKS, and FIREWORKS shall
have the same meaning as provided in I.C. 22-11-14-1, as amended.
   (B)   The term BANNED FIREWORKS shall include all items listed in I.C. 22-
1 l-14-8(a) as amended, or any other type of firework prohibited by federal,
state or local law.
(Ord. 20-2014, passed 7-28-14)
§ 93.23 DISCHARGE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Except as provided below, it is unlawful for any person to ignite,
shoot off, release, discharge, use or cause to be discharged, any fireworks
and/or banned fireworks within the limits of the city, or to allow another to
ignite, shoot off, release, discharge, use or cause to be discharged, any
fireworks and/or banned fireworks on property owned or leased by them within
the limits of the city. Notwithstanding the preceding prohibition, use of
consumer fireworks and/or special fireworks shall be allowed as set out in §
93.21(C)(3)(a), (b) and (c) and public displays where a permit is granted
pursuant to I.C. 22-11-14-2 or 22-11-14-3.5 and such display occurs on the days
and times permitted. Should I.C. 22-11-14-10.5(c)(3) be amended to either
expand or limit the number of days and/or hours that a municipality cannot
limit the use of consumer fireworks, such change shall be incorporated by
reference without need to amend this subchapter.
   (B)   Consumer fireworks and/or special fireworks on other dates and times
as may be permitted by the city Board of Works by special request.
(Ord. 20-2014, passed 7-28-14) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.24 TIMES.
   The city prohibits the use of fireworks within the corporate limits of the
city at all times, dates and places other than those specific times set forth
in §
93.21. Fireworks are defined by I.C. 22-11-14-1 and 22-11-14-8. This subchapter
does not prohibit the use of the following items at other times so long as they
do not disturb the peace.
   (A)   Items that are hand held (i.e. sparklers);
   (B)   Items that are used on the ground (i.e. ground spinners, cones,
fountains);
   (C)   Novelty items (i.e. snakes, party poppers); and
   (D)   Non-novelty items (i.e. spinning wheels, roman candles).
(Ord. 20-2014, passed 7-28-14)
§ 93.25 NUISANCE; UNSAFE USE; PUBLIC/PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Use or discharge of consumer fireworks, special fireworks or banned
fireworks can cause serious annoyance to citizens by loud, frequent or habitual
noise, and is declared to be a public nuisance. Except as noted in §
93.21, it is unlawful for any person to conduct such activities.
   (B)   The use of consumer fireworks, special fireworks or banned fireworks
in an unsafe manner or in a way that results in the littering of public and/or
private property is also considered a public nuisance.
   (C)   Except by specific permission granted by the Vincennes Board of Public
Works and Safety, it shall be illegal to use consumer fireworks or banned
fireworks on public property or to use consumer fireworks, special fireworks or
banned fireworks in such a manner that is reasonably likely that remnants of
the consumer fireworks, special fireworks or banned fireworks will land on,
litter or otherwise end up on: public property, or private property, unless the
private property owner has consented and such act does not violate any other
provision of this subchapter.
(Ord. 20-2014, passed 7-28-14) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.26 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone under the age of 18 ("minor") to ignite,
shoot off, release, discharge, use or cause to be discharged any consumer
fireworks, special fireworks or banned fireworks within the limits of the city
without the direct supervision of the minor's parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care, custody and control of the minor.
(Ord. 20-2014, passed 7-28-14) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.27 LIABILITY FOR FIRE AND OTHER DAMAGE.
   Any person shall be liable for damage to person or property caused by the
use of consumer fireworks, special fireworks or banned fireworks, and shall
also be liable for costs of fire service by a responding fire department or
other emergency services necessitated by the use or discharge of fireworks.
(Ord. 20-2014, passed 7-28-14)
§ 93.28 LOCAL PERMIT TO SELL FIREWORKS.
   Absent compliance with the provisions of this section, it shall be unlawful
to sell or otherwise distribute any fireworks and/or banned fireworks within
the city unless the following conditions are met:
   (A)   Retailer complies with all requirements of I.C. 22-11-14-4.5, 7 and
11, including the obtaining of a valid certificate of compliance.
   (B)   Retailer obtains a valid permit from the city. Such permits shall be
valid for one year. The city shall prepare application forms and establish the
process fee for obtaining the permit. A fee of $50 shall be collected to
reimburse the city for its administrative costs. As part of the application,
the retailer/property owner shall consent to inspection by the Vincennes Police
and/or Fire Department to insure the general health, safety and welfare of the
public.
(Ord. 20-2014, passed 7-28-14) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $100. Each day of continued violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
('71 Code, § 91.06) (Ord. 73-77, passed 12-12-77)
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, any
person convicted of violating any provision under §§
93.20 through
93.28 shall be subject to a fine in an amount up to $25 for the first
occurrence, $50 for the second occurrence and $100 for the third occurrence.
      (2)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of §
93.28 by not having a valid permit shall be punished by a fine in an amount of
$1,000 per occurrence with each day of non-compliance being deemed a separate
office.
      (3)   An action to abate such nuisance or otherwise seek compliance with
§§
93.20 through
93.28 may be brought as provided under Indiana law. All legal costs, including
attorneys’ fees shall be added to any judgment award obtained by the city.
(Ord. 20-2014, passed 7-28-14)
CHAPTER 94: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
   
94.01   Spitting in public places
   
94.02   Obstruction of drinking fountains
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 SPITTING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall spit upon the floor of any public building or upon the
steps or approaches thereof, or upon the floor of any vehicle used as a common
carrier of passengers, or upon any public sidewalk in the city.
('71 Code, § 97.04)
   (B)   The City-County Board of Health shall place, or cause to be placed in
conspicuous places, in such buildings or vehicles used as common carriers of
passengers, and upon corners of principal streets in the city, signs directing
the attention of the public to this section.
('71 Code, § 97.05)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.02 OBSTRUCTION OF DRINKING FOUNTAINS.
   (A)   No person shall throw or put into any public drinking fountain, or any
pipe leading thereto, any trash, debris or any other substance or material.
   (B)   No person shall stop, prevent or check the flow of water therein, or
turn on or shut off the water supplied thereto.
('71 Code, § 97.06)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$2,500.
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Sound from amplified devices prohibited
Weeds and Other Noxious Vegetation
   
95.15   Indiana laws relating to weeds
   
95.16   Responsible department
   
95.17   Definitions
   
95.18   Growth to be controlled
   
95.19   Notice to cut
   
95.20   Failure of owner to cut and remove after notice; entry; work to be
done; cost; lien; taxes
   
95.21   Collection
   
95.22   Appeals
   
95.23   Board action
   
95.24   Decision
   
95.25   Other remedies
Cross-reference:
   Ordinance Violations Bureau, see
Chapter 36
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 SOUNDS FROM AMPLIFIED DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   "City owned" property is any right-of-way, property in which the city
is the title holder of record, or property in which the city owns a leasehold
interest.
   (B)   No person shall play, use, operate or permit to be played, used or
operated, any radio, tape player, cassette player, compact disc player, loud
speaker, sound amplifier or other device designed for generating or reproducing
sound, if
      (1)   It is located in or on any of the following:
         (a)   Any city owned property, including, but not limited to, any
street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park or other city owned property; or
   (b)   Any motor vehicle on a public street, alley, highway, park or other
city owned property; and if
      (2)   The sound generated is measured at 70 db or greater at a distance
of 15 to 20 feet from the device producing the sound, or
      (3)   The generation of sound in violation of this section is deemed to
be a public nuisance.
   (C)   Exemptions:
      (1)   This section shall not apply to properly operating vehicle alarms,
authorized emergency vehicles, vehicle horns used as a warning of danger or
public safety officials acting within the scope of their authority.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to licensed festivals, parades or any
activity authorized by the Board of Public Works, Parks Board, Safety Board or
other Governmental Board having jurisdiction and control over the property.
   (D)   A custodial parent shall be responsible for ensuring a minor child
complies with this section and is responsible for any fine imposed. "Minor"
shall mean a person under 18 years of age.
   (E)   Any person, firm, or corporation that violates this section shall,
upon conviction, be subject to a fine of $50 for the first offense; $200 for
the second offense; and $300 for the third or subsequent offense. In addition
to the monetary penalties provided here , a court may enter injunctive relief
to prevent future violations for maintaining a nuisance.
('71 Code, § 111.02) (Am. Ord. 16-99, passed 7-12-99)
Penalty, see § 10.99
WEEDS AND OTHER NOXIOUS VEGETATION
§ 95.15 INDIANA LAWS RELATING TO WEEDS.
   I.C. 15-3-4. This law requires that a person owning or possessing real
estate in Indiana shall be required to destroy by cutting, plowing,
cultivation, smothering, or by the use of chemicals in the bud state of growth
or earlier so as to prevent any detrimental plants from maturing. Named in the
law as detrimental plants are Canada thistle, Johnsongrass, Sorghum Almum,
Burcucumbur, Shattercane, and in Residential Areas only, Noxious Weeds and Rank
Vegetation.
   (B)   I.C. 36-7-10.1 et seq., Removal of Weeds, allows County, City, and
Town officials to adopt an ordinance to require property owners to cut weeds
and other rank vegetation. After written notice, authorities may cut weeds and
bill property owners for costs incurred.
('71 Code, § 102.01) (Am. Ord. 25-1986, passed 8-11-86; Am. Ord. 13-94, passed
5-9-94)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.16 RESPONSIBLE DEPARTMENT.
   This chapter shall be administered by the Street and Sanitation Department
of the City of Vincennes, Indiana, the City Inspector's office, and the
Vincennes Police Department.
('71 Code, § 102.02) (Am. Ord. 25-1986, passed 8-11-86; Am. Ord. 13-94, passed
5-9-94)
§ 95.17 DEFINITIONS.
   WEEDS. As those set forth in I.C. 15-3-4, et seq. and shall include all
types of grasses which are permitted to grow beyond the permitted length or
which are permitted to go to seed. This definition shall include bushes and
shrubbery which is overgrown or block sidewalks, streets, or alleys.
('71 Code, § 102.03) (Am. Ord. 25-1986, passed 8-11-86; Am. Ord. 13-94, passed
5-9-94)
§ 95.18 GROWTH TO BE CONTROLLED.
   No person who owns or occupies premises within the city shall permit or
allow his premises, or the alley or street adjoining such premises, to become
overgrown with noxious weeds, bushes, grass or other vegetation of any
character.
(Ord. 13-94, passed 5-9-94)
§ 95.19 NOTICE TO CUT.
   No person shall fail, neglect, or refuse to properly cut such weeds or clean
such premises so owned or occupied by him within five days after receiving
notice in writing from the City that such premises are grown up with noxious
weeds, bushes, or other vegetation and that they are ordered to cut or remove
such weeds, bushes or vegetation. In the alternative, notice may be served
personally by the Vincennes City Police Department. Such notice may be issued
after the weeds, grass or other vegetation reaches the height of six inches.
Any such notice shall be issued in writing and delivered in person to the
owner/occupant; by certified mail; or by posting in a permanent place on the
premises.
(Ord. 13-94, passed 5-9-94; Am. Ord. 7-99, passed 3-22-99)
§ 95.20 FAILURE OF OWNER TO CUT AND REMOVE AFTER NOTICE; ENTRY; WORK TO BE
DONE; COST; LIEN; TAXES.
   (A)   Upon the failure of any owner or occupant to comply with preceding
sections of this chapter, the Superintendent of Streets and Sanitation may
arrange for them to be cut or destroyed. The Vincennes Street Department may
correct the condition and keep account of the expense of same. (Provided,
however, that a minimum of $50 shall be certified as the cost of correcting the
condition.) The City Inspector, the Superintendent of Streets and Sanitation,
the Vincennes Police Department or their designee may enter upon the premises
in order to correct the condition and may require the Police Department to
assist them if access or entry is resisted.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized and directed to make a record of any
amount expended by the city to correct the violation together with the owner's
name and description of the real estate in a record kept for that purpose. A
statement for the act of abating the violation costs shall be sent to the last
known address of the owner/occupant. Upon failure of the property owner or
legal occupant to pay the amount charged within ten days, a penalty charge of
$10 per day for the first offense, $20 per day for the second offense, and $30
per day for the third offense, is to be added to the bill until the amount is
paid or until fines equal $2,500.
   (C)   Any amounts so collected shall be returned to the Street and
Sanitation Department to fund the eradication and abatement program. This shall
be established as a separate non-reverting fund in the Street and Sanitation
Department.
(Ord. 13-94, passed 5-9-94)
§ 95.21 COLLECTION.
   If the owner/occupant fails to pay a bill issued under §
95.20(B) within the time specified, the Clerk-Treasurer shall certify to the
County Auditor the amount of the bill, plus any additional administrative costs
incurred in the certification. The Auditor shall place the total amount,
certified on the tax duplicate for the property affected, and the total amount,
including any accrued interest, shall be collected as delinquent taxes are
collected and shall be disbursed to the special fund for the future use of the
Street and Sanitation Department in administering this chapter.
(Ord. 13-94, passed 5-9-94)
§ 95.22 APPEALS.
   Appeal of a notice of violation or a bill issued under this chapter shall be
made in writing to the Vincennes Weed Appeals Board. The notice of appeal shall
specifically state the reasons for the appeal and shall request to be placed on
the Board's agenda for the purpose of contesting the notice of violation or the
bill. Any such appeal notice must be made within three business days of the
receipt of the notice to cut or receipt of the bill for abatement. Any notice
of appeal received after that time shall be deemed denied. Appeals shall be
sent to the offices of the Street and Sanitation Department for scheduling
purposes. The Weed Appeal Board shall be comprised of the Vincennes Police
Chief and the Vincennes Fire Chief; in the event that they are unavailable to
hear the appeal, they shall designate an assistant to hear the appeal as soon
as possible. Time is of the essence and appeals will be heard as quickly as
possible in the City Council Chambers or such other place designated in the
notice of hearing. All such appeals shall be heard on an informal basis with
both sides permitted to present oral testimony, documentary evidence and
witnesses on their behalf.
(Ord. 13-94, passed 5-9-94)
§ 95.23 BOARD ACTION.
   The Board may act on the appeal at the hearing or may take the matter under
advisement. A decision shall be issued in writing to the appellant within ten
days.
(Ord. 13-94, passed 5-9-94)
§ 95.24 DECISION.
   The decision of the Board shall be final as to the city, and may be appealed
to the Circuit or Superior Court of Knox County pursuant to the Administration
Adjudication Act.
(Ord. 13-94, passed 5-9-94)
§ 95.25 OTHER REMEDIES 
   The city may collect amounts billed under this chapter in a court of general
jurisdiction as are other debts owed to the city. In the event alternative
collection is used, the amount collected will be credited against the lien
created in §
95.21.
(Ord. 13-94, passed 5-9-94)
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Hours of operation; exceptions
Chippe-Ko-Kee Park
   
96.15   Establishment
Campsites; Standards of Operation
   
96.25   Campsite rentals
   
96.26   Permit fee for use of campsite
   
96.27   Fees to be delivered to Clerk-Treasurer
   
96.29   Inspection
   
96.30   Maintenance
   
96.31   Written notice to clean up site
   
96.32   Occupant to exhibit receipt for fee
Cross-reference:
   Board of Parks and Recreation, see §§
32.030 through
32.035
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 HOURS OF OPERATION; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, all city parks shall be
closed between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m., and it shall be a
violation of this section for any person to enter, be or remain in any city
park when that park is closed.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the Kimmell Park Campground from April
15 to October 31.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to activities sponsored by the Parks and
Recreation Department of the city; provided, that the Parks and Recreation
Department shall notify the City Police Department of those activities in
advance.
   (D)   Any child under the age of 18 years who violate this section shall be
taken into custody and referred to a juvenile court intake officer or other
juvenile authorities.
(Ord. 6-81, passed - -81)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHIPPE-KO-KEE PARK
§ 96.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The city property located between Chicago Avenue and Kelso Creek shall be
known as “Chippe-Ko-Kee Park.”
('71 Code, § 99.01)
CAMPSITES; STANDARDS OF OPERATION
§ 96.25 CAMPSITE RENTALS.
   (A)   Personnel of the city Park Department shall supervise the renting of
campsites within the parks of the city.
   (B)   These campsites shall not be rented for the purpose of permanent use
and occupancy and shall not be rented for a continuous uninterrupted use for a
period in excess of two weeks.
('71 Code, § 99.02) (Ord. 1307, passed 3-2-66)
§ 96.26 PERMIT FEE FOR USE OF CAMPSITE.
   The permit fee for the use of such campsite shall be established by the Park
and Recreation Board at a regular or properly called special meeting. A fee so
established shall be effective after publication by posting in a prominent
position within the park.
('71 Code, § 99.06) (Ord. 1307, passed 3-2-66; Am. Ord. 5-2000, passed 4-10-00)
§ 96.27 FEES TO BE DELIVERED TO CLERK-TREASURER.
   The city employees collecting permit fees as stated in §
96.26 shall give the payer of receipt thereof. That receipt shall be made in
triplicate, the original of which shall be given the payer and two copies shall
be retained by the employees. The receipt shall indicate the date and hour of
issue and the money so collected shall be delivered to the Clerk-Treasurer,
within 24 hours of receipt of same, along with a copy of all receipts issued.
('71 Code, § 99.07) (Ord. 1307, passed 3-2-66)
§ 96.29 INSPECTION.
   All campsites shall be subject to inspection at all reasonable authorized
hours by personnel of the Park Department and/or the City-County health officer
or his representative, for the purpose of ascertaining the presence of trash,
debris, junk or garbage thereon.
('71 Code, § 99.04) (Ord. 1307, passed 3-2-66)
§ 96.30 MAINTENANCE.
   Those using and occupying these campsites shall keep and maintain the same
in a neat and sanitary manner and shall not cause or permit the accumulation of
trash, debris, junk or garbage thereon.
('71 Code, § 99.03) (Ord. 1307, passed 3-2-66)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 96.31 WRITTEN NOTICE TO CLEAN UP SITE.
   If upon inspection of any campsites, the presence of trash, debris, junk or
garbage is discovered thereon, the person inspecting the site shall give the
occupant of the campsite a written notice to remove any such trash, debris,
junk or garbage within eight hours; and upon failure to so comply the occupant
shall vacate that campsite upon the expiration of the 24-hour period and that
person shall not be issued any further campsite permits within the calendar
year.
('71 Code, § 99.05) (Ord. 1307, passed 3-2-66)
§ 96.32 OCCUPANT TO EXHIBIT RECEIPT FOR FEE.
   The occupant of a campsite shall exhibit to authorized personnel of the Park
Department their receipt for the use of that campsite upon demand.
('71 Code, § 99.08) (Ord. 1307, passed 3-2-66)
CHAPTER 97: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
97.001   Obstructions
   
97.002   Signs and awnings over sidewalks
   
97.003   Dangerous structures or trees
   
97.004   Goods, wares and merchandise on sidewalks
   
97.005   Digging and removing earth from streets
   
97.006   Damaging streets and sidewalks
   
97.007   Playing games on streets
   
97.008   Congregating on street
   
97.009   Throwing missiles
   
97.010   Grass clippings, leaves, other vegetation
Excavations
   
97.020   Permit required
   
97.021   Permit fees; length of permit
   
97.022   Copies of permit to be forwarded; stop work upon noncompliance
   
97.023   Surety bond
   
97.024   Effect of approval of permit
   
97.025   Forms and instructions; keeping bonds current
   
97.026   Private service connections; improvements
   
97.027   Obstructions and barriers; warning lights
   
97.028   Enclosures required
   
97.029   Excavations on private property; barriers
   
97.030   Removal of materials on streets
   
97.031   Vaults, gratings or doors on sidewalks; owner's liability
   
97.032   Assessment of penalties for noncompliance
   
97.033   Exemptions
   
97.034   Removal and replacement of sidewalks, driveways and curb ramps
Poles and Wires
   
97.045   Consent and approval required to erect poles
   
97.046   Operation and control of telegraph, telephone or electric light lines;
conditions
   
97.047   Defacing poles
   
97.048   Rights reserved to city
Street Trees
   
97.060   Definition
   
97.061   Street trees permitted to be planted
   
97.062   Spacing according to species size classes
   
97.063   Permitted distances
   
97.064   Utilities
   
97.065   Public tree care
   
97.066   Tree topping
   
97.067   Pruning; corner clearance
   
97.068   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
97.069   Removal of stumps
   
97.070   Arborist license and bond
   
97.071   City Tree and Landscape Board
   
97.072   Interference with City Tree and Landscape Board
   
97.073   Approved shrubs for landscaping list
   
97.074   Invasive plant species
House Numbering
   
97.085   Base streets; exceptions
   
97.086   Directions of base streets
   
97.087   House numbers
 
   
97.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 97.001 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   No person, directly or by agent or employee, shall obstruct or hinder the
free and convenient use of any street, alley, sidewalk, crosswalk or public
place of the city with any obstructions, substances and materials whatsoever.
('71 Code, § 100.28)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.002 SIGNS AND AWNINGS OVER SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall erect or maintain or cause to be erected or maintained any
shed, shade, awning or sign on or across any sidewalk within the city with the
lowest part thereof less than 7½ feet over that sidewalk, or shall fail to keep
that shed, shade, awning or sign safely and securely fixed and supported so as
to prevent to travelers.
('71 Code, § 100.26)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.003 DANGEROUS STRUCTURES OR TREES.
   No person owning or controlling any tree, building or structure in the city
shall permit the same to be and remain in this condition as to endanger the
life, limb or property of persons passing along any street, sidewalk or alley,
and any such tree, building or structure permitted to be and remain in that
condition is declared to be a nuisance.
('71 Code, § 100.29)
Penalty, see § 97.999
Cross-reference:
   Streets trees, see §§
97.060 through
97.073
§ 97.004 GOODS, WARES AND MERCHANDISE ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person, directly or by agent of employee, shall obstruct or hinder the
free and convenient public use of any sidewalk in the city by playing or
maintaining thereon for advertisement or display any goods, wares, merchandise
or other object.
('71 Code, § 100.31)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.005 DIGGING AND REMOVING EARTH FROM STREETS.
   No person without proper authority shall dig or take any earth, gravel or
sand from any street, alley, sidewalk or public place of the city.
('71 Code, § 100.32)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.006 DAMAGING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall destroy, injure, damage or deface any improved street,
alley, sidewalk or crosswalk in the city.
('71 Code, § 100.33)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.007 PLAYING GAMES ON STREETS.
   No person shall play any game upon any of the streets of the city.
('71 Code, § 100.27)
Penalty, see § 97.999
Cross-reference:
   Play streets, see
§ 70.25
§ 97.008 CONGREGATING ON STREET.
   No person or group of persons shall congregate in such a manner as to
obstruct the passage, upon any public street or sidewalk, of any vehicle or
pedestrian.
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.009 THROWING MISSILES.
   No person shall throw any missile or other object along or across the public
street or alley of the city.
('71 Code, § 100.30)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.010 GRASS CLIPPINGS, LEAVES, OTHER VEGETATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause grass clippings, leaves,
other vegetation, debris, or trash to be placed upon the city streets and/or
gutters of the city unless such grass clippings, leaves, vegetation, debris, or
trash is placed in plastic bags, trash cans or other suitable receptacles for
collection.
   (B)   The unlawful placement of grass clippings, leaves, other vegetation,
trash, causes blockages within the town’s storm water drainage system, creates
a public nuisance affecting health, and is a danger to pedestrians and
vehicular traffic, especially motorcycles and bicycles. Violation of this
section is subject to enforcement by fines issued pursuant to city ordinance.
(Ord. 6-2022, passed 7-25-22) Penalty, see §
97.999
EXCAVATIONS
§ 97.020 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut, dig or excavate in any
part of any street or alley right-of-way within the city, except for the
purpose of making installations therein under contract with the city, without
first filing with the City Engineer's office a written application for a permit
to make such a cut or excavation at least three days in advance of the time of
beginning the work to be under that permit, except, that when an emergency
exists, the applicant may secure a permit in less than a three-day period by
stating in his application the exact emergency. All permit applications shall
be submitted to and be approved by the City Engineer prior to being filed with
the Clerk-Treasurer. The application shall particularly describe the exact
location, kind, dimension by feet and inches, type of road surface to be cut or
excavated, nature of the opening to be made and the exact purpose of the work.
('71 Code, § 100.01A.)
   (B)   Any and all work performed within the street right-of-way in
connection with those excavations, such as forcing pipe under pavement,
trenches between the curb and sidewalk. or trenches outside the paved macadam,
oiled, or stoned surfaces of a street or alley are covered by this subchapter
and shall require a permit.
('71 Code, § 100.01C.)
(Ord. 28-88, passed 9-12-88)
§ 97.021 PERMIT FEES; LENGTH OF PERMIT.
   All applicants must pay a minimum of $25 permit and inspection fee as the
time the permit is filed. The permit shall be valid for 90 days after approval
is given by the City Engineer. In the event the cut, dig or excavation shall be
in excess 25 square feet, then the permit fee required hereunder shall be an
amount equal to $.50 per square foot which permit shall likewise be invalid for
90 days after approval is given by the City Engineer.
('71 Code, § 100.01B.) (Ord. 28, passed 9-12-88)
§ 97.022 COPIES OF PERMIT TO BE FORWARDED; STOP WORK UPON NONCOMPLIANCE. 
   One copy of each permit shall be issued to the following individuals: the
applicant, the Clerk-Treasurer and the City Engineer. It shall be the specific
duty of the City Engineer or his designee to stop any work which is being
performed when it does not comply with the terms of this subchapter or the
conditions stipulated on the permit, and report such noncompliance to the Board
of Public Works and Safety for further action.
('71 Code, § 100.01D.) (Ord. 28-88, passed 9-12-88)
§ 97.023 SURETY BOND.
   As a part of the written application, the applicant shall have on file in
the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer an approved undertaking and surety bond
in the amount of a minimum of $2,000 wherein the applicant agrees to do the
following:
   (A)   (1)   Properly backfill the dig, cut or excavation within three days
after the installation is completed, and maintain the road surface which has
been disturbed in a smooth and uniform condition for a period of two years
after traffic is again permitted to pass over the filled trench or maintain the
area cut outside the pavement surface but within the right-of-way to a
condition similar to the immediate surrounding area for a period of one year,
this maintenance to meet the approval of the City Engineer.
      (2)   Failure to backfill properly or maintain surface during the
maintenance period shall be sufficient cause without citation for city forces
to perform the neglected work and charge the permittee the reasonable cost
thereof.
   (B)   Erect and maintain all necessary barricades, detour signs, warning
signals and lights by night (in conformance with the “Indiana Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices,” latest edition) required to direct traffic safely
over or around the place where such work is being done, so long as the work in
any way interferes with traffic.
   (C)   Take all responsibility for any injury or damage resulting to persons
or property because of that work.
   (D)   Conspicuously display at the site of the street opening the name and
address of the person to whom the permit has been issued so long as the hole is
open or barricades are in place.
   (E)   Give notice to the City Engineer prior to every day that excavations
are being opened in those rights-of-way.
   (F)   In the event the cut, dig or excavation for which a permit is granted
is in excess of 100 feet, the security bond required hereunder shall be an
amount equal to $5 per square foot.
('71 Code, § 100.02) (Ord. 28-88, passed 9-12-88)
§ 97.024 EFFECT OF APPROVAL OF PERMIT.
   The approval of a permit to cut into a street or alley does not authorize
entry into a public sewer or drain or prejudice the city's right to require the
removal or relocation of structures, wire, pipes or appurtenances installed in
connection with that permit.
('71 Code, § 100.03)
§ 97.025 FORMS AND INSTRUCTIONS; KEEPING BONDS CURRENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Public Works and Safety to have printed
any forms and instructions as are required for the administration of this
subchapter. It shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to require all persons
making application for a permit under the terms of this subchapter to post and
keep current the bonds required in §
97.023.
('71 Code, § 100.04)
§ 97.026 PRIVATE SERVICE CONNECTIONS; IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Duty of owners to make private service connections. Before the roadway
of any street is permanently improved by paving, it shall be the duty of the
owners of the real estate or property abutting thereon to make private
connections with sewer, gas, water and other like pipes and public conveniences
and to bring these connections inside of the curbline of the street within 20
days after the adoption of the final ordering the improvement of that street.
('71 Code, § 100.06)
   (B)   Notice to make service connections at expense of owner. Whenever the
Board of Public Works and Safety shall adopt a preliminary resolution for the
permanent improvement of the roadway of any street in the city, it shall, in
the resolution, declare its intention of making, at the owner's expense, all
those connections and of bringing the same inside the curbline of the street
where the same has already been done by the abutting property owners. Notice of
that intention shall also be made a part of the notice to be given concerning
the improvement of the street as required by law.
('71 Code, § 100.07)
   (C)   Making service connections; costs.
      (1)   Should any abutting owner fail to make a connection within the time
limited in the preceding divisions section, the Board of Public Works and
Safety shall proceed to authorize the proper city officials to do so at the
owner's expense, and the Board shall have the right to designate the official
who shall perform the work of making those connections. The Board shall also
have authority, in the event it sees fit, to cause the work of making the
connections to be done by any competent contractor. The Board may also, in the
final resolution for the improvement of any street, order the connections as
shall not have been made by the abutting property owners within the time
limited aforesaid to be made by the contractor to whom is awarded the contract
for the improvement of that street, in which even, the bidder shall state the
amount at which he is willing to make the connections, basing the same either
on the frontage of the lot when those connections are to be made or otherwise,
as may be ordered by the Board.
      (2)   The cost of making connections, whether made by a city official
designated by the Board or by contract, shall be a lien on the property of the
abutting owner and shall be included and constitute a part of the assessment
for the improvement of such street, collectable in the same manner as expenses
and assessments for other street and sewer improvements.
('71 Code, § 100.08)
   (D)   Extent of service connections. There shall be made a separate sewer,
gas and water connection, the same brought inside the curbline of the street as
hereinbefore set out in this section, for each platted lot abutting on the
street and for each fraction of a lot, if the lot is divided and the ownership
of lot is in different parties, and there shall also be a separate sewer, gas
and water connection for each 50 feet of unplatted territory or property
abutting on that street.
('71 Code, § 100.09)
   (E)   All work of making connections and bringing the same within the
curbline as above provided, whether done by the owner, or by the Board of
Public Works and Safety, or by contract, shall be done under a permit as
required by law or by this code and any other applicable ordinances of the city
and subject to the approval of the City Engineer.
('71 Code, § 100.10)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.027 OBSTRUCTIONS AND BARRIERS; WARNING LIGHTS.
   No person shall trench or otherwise excavate or place any building
materials, rubbish, brick, earth, gravel, sand or similar materials upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, crosswalk or public place in the city, and there allow
the same for 24 hours or longer, unless he shall substantially fence the same
with a barrier of boards, planks or railings to prevent accident or injury to
persons and property; and it shall be the duty of the person so occupying or
obstructing any street, alley, sidewalk, crosswalk or public place, to cause
one or more red lights to be securely and conspicuously posted at or on that
excavation, stationing one of those lights at each end of the space so
occupied. Where the excavation or obstruction exceeds 25 feet in either length
or breadth, that person shall place additional lights at intervals of not less
than 50 feet. That person shall maintain and continue the burning of those
lights from dusk until daylight during every night that the excavation or
obstruction shall be allowed so to remain. No person shall take down, remove or
extinguish any signal or red light so placed by that person during the hours of
the night.
('71 Code, § 100.12)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.028 ENCLOSURES REQUIRED.
   No person shall excavate in or closely adjoining any sidewalk, street or
alley for building or other purposes unless he shall enclose the excavation to
render it safe and convenient for pedestrians to pass over the excavation at
all times.
('71 Code, § 100.13)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.029 EXCAVATIONS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; BARRIERS.
   It shall be the duty of all persons owning or controlling any lot of
premises on where there is any hole or excavation next adjoining or near to any
street, sidewalk or alley in the city, to erect and maintain suitable guards or
barriers around that hole or excavation so as to prevent accident or injury to
persons or property passing along that street, sidewalk or alley.
('71 Code, § 100.14)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.030 REMOVAL OF MATERIALS ON STREETS.
   No person who may have performed any work or caused or directed any work to
be done, by which bricks, stone, timber, building materials, sand, dirt or any
kind of litter shall have been placed in or upon any street, alley or sidewalk
of the city, shall neglect to remove any and all obstructions to the free use
of that street, alley or sidewalk within five days after the completion of the
particular work which gave rise to those deposits.
('71 Code, § 100.15)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.031 VAULTS, GRATINGS OR DOORS ON SIDEWALKS; OWNER'S LIABILITY.
   No person shall permit any vault, grating or door in any sidewalk in front
of the premises occupied by him to be or remain open without having the same
guarded so as to prevent injury to persons and property, or to fail to keep
that vault, grating or door in good and safe repair and condition or
sufficiently strong to support any burden which may be placed thereon or pass
over the same. Any grating or covering suffered to be out of repair and
dangerous to travel is declared to be an obstruction and a nuisance and the
Board of Public Works and Safety after five days notice may cause the same to
be removed or may repair the same and charge the expense to the owner or
occupant of the premises, which charge may be placed on the tax duplicate and
collected as other taxes.
('71 Code, § 100.16)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.032 ASSESSMENT OF PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Public Works and Safety to direct the
Clerk-Treasurer to assess penalties as set herein in those cases which are not
performed in compliance with this subchapter. The penalty for noncompliance of
the provisions of this subchapter shall be double the permit fee per day of
noncompliance.
('71 Code, § 100.11) (Ord. 28-88, passed 9-12-88)
§ 97.033 EXEMPTIONS.
   The sections of this subchapter shall not apply to the officers or employees
of the city when prosecuting any work by order of or under the direction of the
Board of Public Works and Safety.
('71 Code, § 100.05) (Ord. 28-88, passed 9-12-88)
§ 97.034 REMOVAL AND REPLACEMENT OF SIDEWALKS, DRIVEWAYS AND CURB RAMPS.
   (A)   Any person who removes existing sidewalks, driveways, or curb ramps
shall replace them in accordance with the "Proposed Accessibility Guidelines
for Pedestrian Facilities and the Public Right-of-Way" dated July 26, 2011 and
the "Department of Justice 28 CFR Part 36 ADA Standards for Accessible Design"
dated July 1, 1994 and any updated adopted versions hereinafter. The detectable
warning strip shall be of the "cast iron" variety produced by Neenah Foundry,
or an equal approved by the City Engineer.
   (B)   Any new installations of sidewalks, driveways or curb ramps shall be
installed in accordance with the "Proposed Accessibility Guidelines for
Pedestrian Facilities and the Public Right-of-Way" dated July 26, 2011 and the
"Department of Justice 28 CFR Part 36 ADA Standards for Accessible Design"
dated July 1, 1994 and any updated adopted versions hereinafter. The detectable
warning strip shall be of the "cast iron" variety produced by Neenah Foundry,
or an equal approved by the City Engineer.
   (C)   If partial removal of a sidewalk is needed, no less than one entire
panel shall be replaced in accordance with the "Proposed Accessibility
Guidelines for Pedestrian Facilities and the Public Right-of-Way" dated July
26, 2011 and the "Department of Justice 28 CFR Part 36 ADA Standards for
Accessible Design" dated July 1, 1994 and any updated adopted versions
hereinafter.
   (D)   If more than 40% of a curb ramp is removed, the entire curb ramp shall
be replaced in accordance with the "Proposed Accessibility Guidelines for
Pedestrian Facilities and the Public Right-of-Way" dated July 26, 2011 and the
"Department of Justice 28 CFR Part 36 ADA Standards for Accessible Design"
dated July 1, 1994 and any updated adopted versions hereinafter. The detectable
warning strip shall be of the "cast iron" variety produced by Neenah Foundry,
or an equal approved by the City Engineer.
   (E)   If a portion of a driveway is removed and it is in the "accessible
path" portion of the driveway and 40% of the "accessible path" is removed, the
entire "accessible path" shall be replaced in accordance with the "Proposed
Accessibility Guidelines for Pedestrian Facilities and the Public Right-of-Way"
dated July 26, 2011 and the "Department of Justice 28 CFR Part 36 ADA Standards
for Accessible Design" dated July 1, 1994 and any updated adopted versions
hereinafter.
   (F)   This section shall be monitored by the Board of Public Works and
Safety and City Engineer's and Inspector's Offices.
(Ord. 31-2013, passed 11-25-13; Am. Ord. 27-2015, passed 8-10-15) Penalty, see
§
97.999
POLES AND WIRES
§ 97.045 CONSENT AND APPROVAL REQUIRED TO ERECT POLES.
   Any person desiring to erect and maintain a pole in any street or alley of
the city shall first acquire the consent and approval of the Board of Public
Works and Safety before doing so.
('71 Code, § 100.40)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.046 OPERATION AND CONTROL OF TELEGRAPH, TELEPHONE OR ELECTRIC LIGHT LINES;
CONDITIONS.
   All persons owning, controlling or operating telegraph, telephone or
electric light lines, and the agents, servants and employees of any of these
persons, in using the streets, highways and alleys shall be governed by and
conform to the following regulations, provisions and conditions:
   (A)   All poles shall be set not less than four feet in the ground, and
those poles shall be on sufficient height so that the lowest wire shall not be
suspended along or across the streets less than 25 feet from the surface of the
ground.
   (B)   All poles shall be straight, and shall be made of either cedar,
cypress or pine, and shall be dressed and painted black for the height of ten
feet from the surface of the street.
   (C)   All poles shall be set close to the curb or edge of the sidewalk next
to the gutter on streets and highways and in alleys at the edge of the alleys,
and shall be erected, kept and maintained in a manner as not to interfere with
travel or endanger life or property or obstruct the flow of water in gutters or
sewers.
   (D)   All wires shall be erected, kept and maintained taut, and shall in no
case be attached to any building in lieu of a pole, except at terminals of
lines, or to any tree; and all wires shall be securely insulated with glass,
porcelain or gutta percha.
   (E)   All poles, wires, towers and appliances shall be kept and maintained
in good order, repair and condition.
('71 Code, § 100.42)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.047 DEFACING POLES.
   No person shall paint, print, paste, stencil or otherwise mark upon, or in
any manner place upon or affix to any of the poles supporting the wires of the
electric light and power, telegraph and telephone companies, without the
consent of the owners thereof, any work, letter, character, figure, sentence or
device or any handbill, metallic sign or notice of any kind, or in any manner
interfere with the free use of those poles; but this section does not apply to
the painting of poles by the companies.
('71 Code, § 100.41)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.048 RIGHTS RESERVED TO CITY.
   The city reserves the right at any time to place upon any of the poles, that
are not or may hereafter be erected, the wires of its fire alarm, telegraph or
any wires for its use, and to attach any fire alarm boxes to those poles
without payment of any sum therefor, and the Board of Public Works and Safety
shall have the right to have the location of those poles and wires changed
when, in their judgement, the public interest of the city demands it; and
should any telegraph, telephone or electric light company discontinue
operations at any time, the companies will be required forthwith to remove all
their poles and wires from the streets and alleys of the city.
('71 Code, § 100.43)
STREET TREES
§ 97.060 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
laying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues or ways
within the city.
('71 Code, § 101.01) (Ord. 32-1986, passed 10-14-86)
§ 97.061 STREET TREES PERMITTED TO BE PLANTED.
   (A)   The following list constitutes the official street tree species for
the city. A complete list, with scientific names and planting guidelines, shall
be available from the City Tree and Landscape Board. No species other than
those included in this list may be planted as street trees without written
permission of the City Tree and Landscape Board.
Small Trees Medium Trees Large Trees
Small Trees           Medium Trees          Large Trees
Amur Maple            Trident Maple         Red Maple
Fullmoon Maple        Paperback Maple       Sugar Maple
Japanese Maple        Three Flowered Maple  Common Horsechestnut
Tartarian Maple       Norway Maple          River Birch
Downy Serviceberry    Red Horsechestnut     Hickory/Pecan
Apple Serviceberry    Ohio Buckeye          Deodar Cedar
American Hornbeam     Common Alder          Hackberry
Korean Hornbeam       European Hornbeam     Falsecypress
Eastern Redbud        Katsuratree           American Beech
White Fringetree      Yellowwood            Ginkgo (male only)
Pagoda Dogwood        Turkish Filbert       Kentucky Coffeetree
Flowering Dogwood     Hardy Rubber Tree     Sweetgum (fruitless)
Kousa Dogwood         Thornless Honeylocust Tulip Poplar
Hawthorn              Carolina Silverbell   Dawn Redwood
Amur Maakia           Foster Holly          Serbian Spruce
Loebner Magnolia      American Holly        Pine
Star Magnolia         Eastern Redcedar      Sycamore/Planetree
Crabapple             Golden Raintree       Oak (except shingle)
Persian Parrotia      Saucer Magnolia       Baldcypress
Flowering Cherry/Plum Black Tupelo          Linden
Korean Sun Pear       American Hophornbeam  Japanese Zelkova
Japanese Snowbell     Sourwood
Fragrant Snowbell     Amur Corktree
Japanese Tree Lilac   Norway Spruce
                      Colorado Blue Spruce
                      Purple Robe Locust
                      Sassafras
                      American Arbovitae
                      Prospector Elm
 
   (B)   The following list constitutes species that are expressly forbidden
for planting as street trees in the city.
Boxelder       Cottonwood
Silver Maple   Lombardy Poplar
Tree of Heaven Bradford Pear
Mimosa         Shingle Oak
White Birch    Black Locust
Russia Olive   Black Willow
Ash            American Elm
Osage Orange   Red Elm
Mulberry
 
('71 Code, § 101.07) (Ord. 32-1986, passed 10-14-86; Am. Ord. 8-2008, passed 8-
11-08; Am. Ord. 10-2010, passed 5-24-10)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.062 SPACING ACCORDING TO SPECIES SIZE CLASSES.
   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three species
size classes listed in § 97.061, and no trees may be planted closer together
than the following: Small trees, 30 feet; medium trees, 40 feet; and large
trees, 50 feet; except in special plantings designed or approved by a landscape
architect.
('71 Code, § 101.08) (Ord. 32-1986, passed 10-14-86)
§ 97.063 PERMITTED DISTANCES.
   (A)   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and
sidewalks will be in accordance with the tree species size classes listed in §
97.061, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the
following: Small trees, two feet; medium trees, three feet; and large trees,
four feet.
('71 Code, § 101.09)
   (B)   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet of any street
corner, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No
street tree shall be planted closer than ten feet of any fireplug.
('71 Code, § 101.10)
(Ord. 32-1986, passed 10-14-86)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.064 UTILITIES.
   No street trees other than those species listed as small trees in §
97.061 may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility
wire, or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer
line, transmission line or other utility.
('71 Code, § 101.11) (Ord. 32-1986, passed 10-14-86)
§ 97.065 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The city will have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety
or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of those public grounds.
   (B)   The City Tree and Landscape Board may remove or cause or order to be
removed, any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by
reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines,
water lines or other public improvements, or is affected with any injurious
fungus, insect or other pest. This section does not prohibit the planting of
street trees by adjacent property owners providing that the selection and
location of said trees is in accordance with §§
97.061 through
97.064.
('71 Code, § 101.12) (Ord. 32-1986, passed 10-14-86)
Penalty, see § 97.999
Cross-reference:
   Dangerous trees, see
§ 97.003
§ 97.066 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or city
department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property.
Topping is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from
this chapter at the determination of the City Tree and Landscape Board.
('71 Code, § 101.13) (Ord. 32-1986, passed 10-14-86; Am. Ord. 10-2010, passed
5-24-10)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.067 PRUNING; CORNER CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the
city shall prune the branches so that those branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a view of any street intersection and so that there
shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the street or
sidewalk. The owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or
broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public.
The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property
when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a
street light or interferes with visibility of any traffic-control device or
sign.
('71 Code, § 101.14) (Ord. 32-1986, passed 10-14-86)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.068 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the city, when such trees constitute a hazard
to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential
threat to other trees within the city. The City Street Department will notify
in writing the owners of those trees. Removal shall be done by the owners at
their own expense within 60 days after the date of service of notice. In the
event of failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the city shall have
the authority to remove those trees and charge the cost of removal on the
owner's property tax notice.
('71 Code, § 101.15) (Ord. 32-1986, passed 10-14-86; Am. Ord. 5-95, passed 2-
28-95)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.069 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of
the ground.
('71 Code, § 101.16) (Ord. 32-1986, passed 10-14-86)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.070 ARBORIST LICENSE AND BOND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of pruning, treating or removing street or park trees within the
city without first applying for and procuring a license. The license fee shall
be $25 annually in advance; provided, however, that no license shall be
required of any public service endeavors. Before any license shall be issued,
each applicant shall first file evidence of possession of liability insurance
in the minimum amounts of $100,000 for bodily injury and $300,000 property
damage indemnifying the city or any person injured or damaged resulting from
the pursuit of those endeavors as described in this subchapter.
('71 Code, § 101.18) (Ord. 32-1986, passed 10-14-86; Am. Ord. 18-2006, passed
11-27-06)
Penalty, see § 97.999
§ 97.071 CITY TREE AND LANDSCAPE BOARD.
   (A)   Purpose. Before a building permit is issued for any type of
construction except single-family and two-family buildings, where off-street
parking and open lot sales display and service areas are provided, a portion of
such areas shall be given over to landscape beautification and natural plant
growth, as is provided for herein.
   (B)   Definition of terms. For the purpose of this section, certain words
and terms used herein shall be defined as follows:
      GROUNDS PERMIT. A permit which must be secured from the LRC prior to the
development or redevelopment of, or addition to, any vehicular use area. The
permit shall be secured from the City Inspector for a fee of $25.
      LANDSCAPE REVIEW COMMISSION. There shall be created a LANDSCAPE REVIEW
COMMISSION (hereinafter referred to as the LRC) which shall be comprised of the
Vincennes City Tree and Landscape Board., Three members shall constitute a
quorum of the authority for the purpose of conducting its business and
exercising its powers and for all other purposes. Action may be taken by the
LRC upon a vote of majority of the members present, unless in any case the by-
laws of the LRC shall require a larger number.
      PLANT MATERIAL. To be used in conformance of this section shall conform
to the standards given in the current “American Standard for Nursery Stock,”
ANSI, or equal to.
      VEHICULAR USE AREAS. Shall include all areas used for the circulation,
parking, and/or display of any and all types of vehicles, boats or heavy
construction equipment, whether self-propelled or not, and all land upon which
vehicles traverse as a function of the primary uses. This shall include, but is
not limited to, activities of a drive-in nature such as service stations,
convenience stores, financial institutions, restaurants, and the like. Only
driveways and parking spaces serving single-family and two family uses shall be
an exception to the definition.
   (C)   Areas subject to provisions. All new commercial development, rental
housing complexes, industrial, off-street parking, and other vehicular use
areas except those located on, under, or within buildings, and those serving
single and two family residential uses shall conform to the minimum landscaping
requirements hereinafter provided by this section. Existing structures
undergoing significant remodeling/reconstruction will also be subject to this
section.
   (D)   Minimum requirements.
      (1)   General parking/vehicular use areas requirements:
         (a)   For perimeter screening: adjacent to city streets:
            1.   One tree per four parking spaces as counted by spaces fronting
city streets.
            2.   Minimum of 25% shall be large or medium trees (cf. buffer
requirements and list in street tree ordinance).
            3.   One shrub per perimeter parking spaces.
         (b)   Island requirements (for parking areas with over 32 spaces):
            1.   Parking lots shall have one island per 32 parking spaces.
            2.   Size of islands must be at least 250 square feet.
            3.   Must contain at least one medium or two small trees (cf. list
in street tree ordinance).
      (2)   General commercial development requirements:
         (a)   Interior planting requirements (non-vehicular use areas):
            1.   Five percent (5%) of the working square footage shall be used
for interior planting beds and shall be made up of small to medium trees,
shrubs and ornamental grasses.
      (3)   Rental housing complex requirements:
         (a)   Interior planting requirements (non-vehicular use areas):
            1.   Five large trees and two medium or small trees per ac. (cf.
list in street tree ordinance).
            2.   Twenty shrubs per acre.
      (4)   Industrial development requirements:
         (a)   Interior planting requirements (non-vehicular use areas):
            1.   Eight large trees and three medium to small trees per acre
(cf. list in street tree ordinance).
            2.   Twenty shrubs and/or ornamental grasses per acre.
         (b)   For perimeter screening/setback (non-vehicular use areas):
            1.   Setback of ten feet to adjoining property.
            2.   Follow one of the following:
               A.   One small to medium tree per 60 feet of boundary (cf. list
in street tree ordinance).
               B.   One large tree and four shrubs per 100 feet of boundary
(cf. list in street tree ordinance).
      (5)   Must be maintained to the ordinance specifications, which includes
number of trees/shrubs and health, following initial planting.
      (6)   Minimum planting size for shrubs is at least three gallon size and
trees is two inch in caliper or six feet of height for evergreen trees, shrub
or ornamental grasses.
      (7)   Visibility of traffic is not to be obstructed by any of the
requirements in this section, e.g. no large shrubs on corners of intersections,
parking lot exits, etc.
      (8)   These are minimum landscaping requirements.
      (9)   List of invasive plant species (Exhibit A of Ord. 9-2020) not to be
used in new landscaping developments. This list is to be kept current with
invasive plants species rated as Medium or High on the Indiana Invasive Species
Council list (found at www.indianainvasivespecies.org) and be in accordance
with Knox County Invasive species ordinance.
   (E)   Grounds permit. Prior to the development or redevelopment of any
aforementioned area, a grounds permit must be obtained from the LRC. Issuance
of this permit is contingent upon the following:
      (1)   Submission of landscape plan. The property owner shall submit to
the City Inspector's Office five copies of a combination site plan-planting
plan. Said plan, hereafter referred to as a “landscape plan,” shall be required
for all areas mentioned above. When the vehicular use area is relative to a
proposed new structure, the landscape plan shall be submitted by the time of
submittal of building plans of the proposed structure.
      (2)   Review of landscape plan. Within ten days of receipt of the plan by
the City Inspector's Office, it shall be reviewed by the LRC, and if found in
compliance with the requirements of this section, a grounds permit shall be
issued.
      (3)   If not found in compliance, the LRC will review with the property
owner suggestions in which the landscape plan could comply.
      (4)   Developer has two weeks to appeal decision of the City Inspector or
City Tree and Landscape Commission to the Board of Zoning Appeals. If they do
not appeal, or are still found noncompliant, no grounds permit will be issued.
   (F)   Existing plant material. In instances where healthy plant material
exists on a site prior to its development, in part or whole, for purposes of
off-street parking or other vehicular use areas, the LRC may adjust the
application of the above-mentioned standards to allow credit for such plant
material if, in its opinion, such an adjustment is in keeping with and will
preserve the intent of this section.
   (G)   Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of
this section shall be fined $100 upon conviction for each offense and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continued. Total fines are not to exceed $2,500.
Individuals in noncompliance will be notified by a written letter and have 30
days to remedy situation before being fined.
   (H)   Reporting. The City Inspector and City Tree and Landscape Board will
report annually to the City Council about the efficacy of the section. A list
of businesses with landscape plans for the year and how those businesses
complied will be included in the report.
   (I)   Existence of emergency. That an emergency exists and this section
shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and approval by
the Mayor.
(‘71 Code, §§ 101.02 - 101.06) (Ord. 32-1986, passed 10-14-86; Am. Ord. 4-2008,
passed 6-9-2008; Am. Ord. 10-2010, passed 5-24-10; Am. Ord. 8-2018, passed 6-9-
18; Am. Ord. 9-2020, passed 7-27-20)
§ 97.072 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY TREE AND LANDSCAPE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
City Tree and Landscape Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and
about the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, straying or removing of any
street trees, park trees or trees on private grounds as authorized in this
subchapter.
('71 Code, § 101.17) (Ord. 32-1986, passed 10-14-86; Am. Ord. 10-2010, passed
5-24-10) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.073 APPROVED SHRUBS FOR LANDSCAPING LIST.
Common Name Scientific Name
Common Name                  Scientific Name
Serviceberries               Amelanchier species
Red Chokeberry               Aronia arbutifolia
Black Chokeberry             Aronia melanocarpa
Boxwood                      Buxus species
Carolina Allspice            Catycanthus floridus
New Jersey Tea               Ceanothus americanus
Buttonbush                   Cephalanthus occidentalis
Flowering Quince             Chaenomeles species
False Cypress                Chamaecyparis species
Gray Dogwood                 Cornus racemosa
Redosier Dogwood             Cornus sericea
American Hazelnut            Corylus americana
Cotoneaster                  Cotoneaster apiculatus
Eastern Wahoo                Euonymus atropurpureus
Silverbell shrub             Halesia tetraptera
Spring Witch Hazel           Hamamelis vernalis
Eastern Witch Hazel          Hamamelis virginiana
Wild Hydrangia               Hydrangia arborescens
Oakleaf Hydrangia            Hydrangia quercifolia
Winterberry Holly            Ilex verticillata
Virginia Sweetspire          Itea virginica
Juniper                      Juniper species
Spicebush                    Lindera benzoin
Mockorange                   Philadelphus species
Ninebark                     Physocarpus opulifolius
Shrubby Cinquefoil           Potentilla species
Sand Cherry                  Prunus pumila
Rhododendron                 Rhododendron species
Fragrant Sumac               Rhus aromatica
Winged Sumac                 Rhus copallina
Shinning Sumac               Rhus glabra
Staghorn Sumac               Rhus typhina
Virginia Rose                Rosa virginiana
Pussy Willow                 Salix discolor
Elderberry                   Sambucus canadensis
Meadow Sweet                 Spirea alba
Steeplebush                  Spirea tomentosa
Coralberry or Indian Currant Symphoricarpos orbiculatus
Lilac                        Syringa vulgaris
Canadian Yew                 Taxus canadensis
Weeping Hemlock              Tsuga canadensis 'pendula'
Mapleleaf Viburnum           Viburnum acerifolium
Arrowwood                    Viburnum dentatum
Nannyberry                   Viburnum lentago
Black Haw                    Viburnum prunifolium
American Highbush Cranberry  Viburnum trilobum
Prickly Ash                  Zanthoxylum americanum
** Bold indicates native species to Indiana
 
(Ord. 8-2018, passed 6-9-18)
§ 97.074 INVASIVE PLANT SPECIES.
Invasive plant species forbidden to be planted (Ranked M or H) List*
Common Name Scientific Name Type of Plant
Invasive plant species forbidden to be planted (Ranked M or H) List*
Common Name          Scientific Name        Type of Plant
Callery Pear         Pyrus calleryana       Tree
Norway Maple         Acer platanoides       Tree
Black Alder          Alnus glutinosa        Tree
Amur Corktree        Phellodendron amurense Tree
Burning Bush         Euonymus alatus        Shrub
Blunt Leaved Privet  Ligustrum obtusifolium Shrub
Glossy Buckthorn     Rhamnus frangula       Shrub
Japanese Barberry    Berberis thunbergii    Shrub
Sericea Lespedeza    Lespedeza cuneata      Shrub
Oriental Bittersweet Celastrus orbiculatus  Vine
Crown Vetch          Securigera varia       Vine
Japanese Honeysuckle Lonicera japonica      Vine
Kudzu                Pueraria montana       Vine
Periwinkle           Vinca minor            Vine
Wintercreeper        Euonymus fortunei      Vine
Common Teasel        Dipsacus fullonum      Herbaceous
Cutleaf Teasel       Dipsacus laciniatus    Herbaceous
Dane’s Rocket      Hesperis matronalis    Herbaceous
Japanese Knotweed    Fallopia japonica      Herbaceous
Yellow Sweet Clover  Melilotus officinalis  Herbaceous
White Sweet Clover   Melilotus alba         Herbaceous
Chinese Maiden Grass Miscanthus sinensis    Grass
Ribbon Grass         Phalaris arundinacea   Grass
Flowering Rush       Butomus umbellatus     Aquatic
Yellow Iris          Iris pseudacorus       Aquatic
* Full list of high and medium rated invasive species found on the Indiana
Invasive Species Council (IISC) website: indianainvasivespecies.org
 
(Ord. 8-2018, passed 6-9-18)
HOUSE NUMBERING
§ 97.085 BASE STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   One hundred numbers shall be allowed to each square or block except as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Main Street shall be the base street at which numbering shall begin on
streets that cross the same, and on streets that may parallel streets that
cross the same, but do not themselves touch Main Street. The Wabash River, from
Willow Street to Scott Street and Park Street, from Scott Street to the city
limits, shall be the base streets at which numbering shall begin on streets
that parallel Main Street. Numbering shall begin with the odd number one for
the first house on the right-hand side at the base street and number two for
the first house on the left at the base street, and shall continue with the odd
numbers on the right and the even numbers on the left side of the street being
numbered to the end of the street.
   (C)   On Eighth Street and streets east and parallel thereto at Hickman
Street, 100 numbers shall be dropped, and there shall be no 1100 block on such
streets. On Fourteenth Street, and streets east parallel thereto, at Hart
Street, 100 numbers shall be dropped and there shall be no 500 block on such
streets. From Hart Street north, the two blocks between Eleventh Street and
Twelfth Street, on streets parallel with Main Street, 50 numbers shall be
allotted to each block, beginning with the number 1101 at Eleventh Street and
1151 at Upper Elizabeth Street. From Swartzel Avenue north, the two blocks
between First Street and Second Street, on streets parallel with Main Street,
50 numbers shall be allotted to each block, beginning with 101 at First Street
and 151 at Day Street.
('71 Code, § 92.01)
§ 97.086 DIRECTIONS OF BASE STREETS.
   For the purpose of designating directions with reference to the base streets
designated in §
97.085, Main Street and all streets parallel thereto shall be referred to as
running east and west; and the Wabash River and Park Street and all streets
parallel thereto shall be referred to as running north and south. Fairground
Avenue shall be considered and numbered as a street running north and south.
('71 Code, § 92.02)
§ 97.087 HOUSE NUMBERS.
   All buildings heretofore erected and hereafter erected shall be provided by
the owners thereof, in a conspicuous place thereon, the line of the street upon
which the building fronts, with the correct number of that building to the plan
herein adopted, which number shall be in Arabic figures and shall be either
painted upon some good and substantial material, and shall be sufficiently
large and distinct as to be easily read from the street. Numbers written or
printed upon paper or cardboard, or written with chalk or with pencil, shall
not be a compliance with this section, but those buildings for the purposes of
this section shall be deemed the same as though they had no number at all.
('71 Code, § 92.03)
§ 97.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be, upon
conviction or a plea of guilty, subject to a fine not to exceed $2,500.
   (B)   Unless another penalty for §
97.010 is otherwise provided, whoever violates any provisions herein shall be
fined not more than $2,500 and costs. Each day’s continued violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Am. Ord. 6-2022, passed 7-25-22)
CHAPTER 98: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Testing of alarm devices
   
98.03   Automatic voice dialers
   
98.04   Automatic shut-off required
   
98.05   Reserved
   
98.06   Reserved
   
98.07   Disconnection and reconnection to central answering point
   
98.08   False alarm service charge
   
98.09   Misuse of alarm system
   
98.10   Reservation of rights
   
98.11   Enforcement of chapter
   
98.12   Disposition of fees and charges
   
98.13   Appeals
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   ALARM AGENT. The business, firm, corporation or partnership employed by
applicant to maintain, service, alter, repair, replace, move, or connect any
burglar, hold up or fire alarm to the monitoring equipment and related
paraphernalia to be maintained by the Police and Fire at the central answering
point within the Vincennes Police and Fire Departments.
   ALARM BOARD. The Board which performs the duties herein set out. The members
of such Board shall be made up of the Board of Public Works and Safety, Police
Chief, and Fire Chief. The Board shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   On behalf of the city, the Board shall enter into a contractual
agreement with an alarm agent.
      (2)   Acquire information to determine the effectiveness of this Chapter.
      (3)   Promulgate such rules and regulations as are necessary to implement
and carry out the intent of this Chapter.
      (4)   Perform such other activities as may be required by the Fire Chief
or Police Chief to carry out, improve, and implement the intent of this
Chapter.
   ALARM DEVICE. The portion of the alarm system located within or upon the
premises of the alarm holder to detect entry into such premises by an
unauthorized intruder and/or detect the presence of heat, smoke, fire, or drop
in water pressure within said premises.
   ALARM HOLDER. The owner, lessee, or person responsible for the existence of
an Alarm System within or upon his/her premises.
   ALARM SYSTEM. An assembly of equipment and devises designed to signal or
transmit a signal to monitoring equipment maintained at the Central Answering
Point indicating the presence of a hazard at the premises of the Alarm Holder
requiring urgent attention and to which Police or Fire personnel are expected
to respond. Such an Alarm System may include “burglar,” “hold up,” “robbery,”
“fire,” “smoke,” “excess heat,” or “explosion” warning devices. Included in the
Alarm System are alarm devices emitting sounds, flashing lights, or beacon
signals to warn persons outside the premises of the existence of a hazard at
the premises.
   For the purposes of this Chapter, an Alarm System shall not include:
      (1)   An alarm installed in or on a motor vehicle.
      (2)   An alarm designed and operated so that no notification is given to
the Fire or Police Departments until after the occupants, an agent of the owner
or lessee, or an agent of the alarm system business has checked the alarm site
and determined that the alarm was possibly or probably the result of a fire or
explosion or a burglary or an attempted burglary of the kind for which the
Alarm System was designed to give notice. Said alarm shall be equipped to
disconnect any exterior sounding alarm automatically within ten minutes of
activation, except an alarm attached to a sprinkler system.
      (3)   An alarm installed upon the premises occupied by a government
entity of the United States of America or the State of Indiana or a municipal
corporation or town. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence,
however, included in this chapter and not exempt shall be Vincennes University,
Vincennes Community School Corporation, Parochial Schools of Vincennes, and
Good Samaritan Hospital.
   APPLICANT. The business, firm, corporation or partnership at whose location
the alarm signal is transmitted from and who contracts the alarm agent.
   AUTOMATIC DIALER. An alarm system which automatically sends over regular
telephone lines (as distinguished from dedicated telephone lines) a prerecorded
voice message, or coded signal, indicating the existence of a hazard at the
premises of the Alarm Holder.
   BURGLAR ALARM. An alarm device activated automatically signaling the entry
or attempted entry of an unauthorized intruder in or upon the premises of an
Alarm Holder, of which such activation is to signal a robbery, an attempted
robbery, a hold up, an attempted hold up, a burglary, or an attempted burglary
at such premises.
   CENTRAL ANSWERING POINT. An office maintained by the Police and Fire to
which Burglar Alarms and Fire Alarms are connected and where Police and Fire
personnel supervise or monitor alarm signals through the use of monitoring
equipment.
   CITY. Any and all departments of the City of Vincennes, Indiana, its
officers, employees, agents, and servants including elected officials and
appointed officials.
   DEDICATED TELEPHONE LINE. A telephone line which has its sole use the
transmission of an alarm signal from an alarm device to monitoring equipment.
   DIRECT CONNECTION. The method of using a telephone line, or other
transmission line which has its sole use the transmission of a Burglar Alarm
signal or a Fire Alarm signal from an Alarm Device to the Monitoring Equipment
maintained at the Central Answering Point.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm eliciting a Police or Fire response when the situation
does not warrant such a response. This does not include alarms triggered by
severe weather and/or atmospheric conditions or outside transmission lines.
   FEES. Monies to be paid by an Alarm Holder to allow the Alarm Device to be
connected to the Central Answering Point.
   FIRE. The City Fire Department.
   LOCAL ALARM. Alarm equipment which when activated causes an audible and/or
visual signal in or on the premises. Such type of alarm equipment may or may
not be a part of the Alarm System.
   MONITORING EQUIPMENT. An assembly of equipment and devices maintained at the
Central Answering Point which is part of the Alarm System which registers the
activation of an Alarm Device in response to which Fire and Police personnel
are expected to respond.
   POLICE. The City Police Department.
   SERVICE CHARGE. An assessment by the Police or Fire against an Alarm Holder.
   TROUBLE INDICATION. A transmitted signal, different from a Fire or Burglar
Alarm signal, which indicates a mechanical or electrical problem within the
Alarm System.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 6-10-96)
§ 98.02 TESTING OF ALARM DEVICE.
   An Alarm Holder, in the first 30 days of the installation of an Alarm
Device, shall be authorized to test the Alarm Device without the imposition of
any False Alarm Service Charge or without the risk of disconnection, subject to
the Alarm Holder's filing of a written statement with the Police or Fire
stating the testing procedure to be utilized and the name of the Alarm Holder's
delegate performing such testing procedure. Such testing procedure will be as
follows:
   (A)   In the event the testing procedure is an on-site test designed to
simulate conditions to induce an Alarm Signal to be generated, the Alarm
Holder, or his delegate, shall timely and properly inform the Police or Fire of
such testing and the Police or Fire will telephone such Alarm Holder, or his
delegate, each time an Alarm Signal is received at the Central Answering Point,
but the Police or Fire will not otherwise respond to such an Alarm Signal;
(Ord. 3-96, passed 6-10-96)
§ 98.03 AUTOMATIC VOICE DIALERS.
   The installation of any automatic voice dialer to the Police or Fire or
Central Answering Point is subject to guidelines set forth in this ordinance as
currently established or as hereafter modified.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 6-10-96)
§ 98.04 AUTOMATIC SHUT-OFF REQUIRED.
   All Alarm Devices and Local Alarms shall have an automatic shut-off which
will deactivate the sound, light, or beacon signal of an Alarm Device or Local
Alarm within ten minutes after the commencement of such sound, light, or beacon
signal, except for an alarm attached to a sprinkler system. The Police or Fire
may enter the premises to deactivate such sound, light, or beacon signal which
has not been shut-off within ten minutes of activation of same and which
disturbs surrounding residents or premises. Such deactivation by Police or Fire
shall be taken only after reasonable efforts have been made by the Police or
Fire to contact the owner of the Local Alarm or Alarm Holder or his delegate,
as the case may be. Neither the Police or Fire nor the city shall be liable for
any damages resulting from such deactivation.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 6-10-96)
§ 98.05 RESERVED.
§ 98.06 RESERVED.
§ 98.07 DISCONNECTION AND RECONNECTION TO CENTRAL ANSWERING POINT.
   (A)   Disconnection. Causes for disconnection from the Central Answering
Point are hereinafter set out. The Alarm Holder shall be liable and responsible
for all costs, charges, and fees arising from disconnection from the Central
Answering Point. The Police Chief or the Fire Chief may order disconnection for
the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to pay any fees or charges required herein.
      (2)   Twelve False Alarms from an Alarm Device of the Alarm Holder,
transmitted to the Monitoring Equipment, within a twelve-month period unless
state or local laws require such connection.
      (3)   Three or more trouble indications from an Alarm System of the Alarm
Holder, transmitted to the Monitoring Equipment, within any twelve-month
period, except this provision shall not apply where state and/or local laws
require such connection.
      (4)   A continuous transmission to the Monitoring Equipment of a trouble
indication from an Alarm Device of the Alarm Holder for a period of more than
48 hours.
      (5)   Violation of the above subsection (B) relating to Equipment.
   (B)   Reconnection. In the event an Alarm Holder has had his Alarm Device
disconnected from the Central Answering Point for causes set out in Subsection
(A) above hereof, such Alarm Device can be reconnected to the Central Answering
Point, in accordance with the following:
      (1)   If an Alarm System has been disconnected from the Central Answering
Point by reason of Subsection (A)(1) hereof, then, upon repayment in full of
all outstanding fees and charges, the Alarm System may be reconnected to the
Central Answering Point.
      (2)   If an Alarm System has been disconnected by reason of Subsection
(A)(2) or (3) hereof, then the Alarm Holders must submit a written statement
indicating that repairs have been made to correct the problem in the
appropriate Alarm Device and its related paraphernalia. After verification, on
behalf of the Alarm Holder, that the Alarm System is properly functioning, the
Alarm Holder may have his Alarm Device reconnected to the Central Answering
Point.
      (3)   If an Alarm System has been disconnected from the Central Answering
Point by reason of Subsection (A)(4) hereof, then the Alarm Holder must submit
a written statement indicating the reasons for the False Alarms and stating
what measures have been taken to prevent or minimize future False Alarms. After
review of aforesaid statements by the Fire Chief or Police Chief, the Alarm
Device may, in the sole discretion of the Fire Chief or Police Chief, be
reconnected to the Central Answering Point.
      (4)   If an Alarm System has been disconnected from the Central Answering
Point by reason of Subsection (A)(5) hereof, then upon proof submitted to the
Police or Fire by the Alarm Holder of the acquisition of an appropriate
maintenance agreement by the Alarm Holder, the Alarm Device of the Alarm Holder
can be reconnected to the Central Answering Point.
   The Alarm Holder shall be responsible for any cost or change arising from
the reconnection.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 6-10-96)
§ 98.08 FALSE ALARM SERVICE CHARGE.
   A service charge for False Alarms received at the Central Answering Point
shall be payable as follows:
   (A)   Alarms responded to by the Police.
      (1)   Three False Alarms shall be allowed each Alarm System in any
calendar year.
      (2)   A service charge of $25 shall be paid by the Alarm Holder for each
of the fourth and fifth False Alarms received in any calendar year.
      (3)   A service charge of $50 shall be paid by the Alarm Holder for each
of the additional False Alarms received within the calendar year.
   (B)   Alarms responded to by Fire.
      (1)   Three False Alarms shall be allowed each Alarm System in any
calendar year that would have 50 or less detectors and pull stations.
         Four False Alarms shall be allowed each Alarm System in any calendar
year that has in service 51 to 150 detectors and pull stations.
         Five False Alarms shall be allowed each Alarm System in any calendar
year that has in service 151 to 250 detectors and pull stations.
         Six False Alarms shall be allowed each Alarm System in any calendar
year that has in service over 250 detectors and pull stations.
      (2)   A service charge of $50 shall be paid by the Alarm Holder for each
of the next three False Alarms received in any calendar year.
      (3)   A service charge of $100 shall be paid by the Alarm Holder for each
of the next three False Alarms received in any calendar year.
      (4)   A service charge of $200 shall be paid by the Alarm Holder for all
subsequent False Alarms received within the calendar year.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 6-10-96)
§ 98.09 MISUSE OF ALARM SYSTEM.
   It is unlawful for any person to activate an Alarm System for any purpose
other than what the Alarm System was originally designed to detect.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 6-10-96)
§ 98.10 RESERVATION OF RIGHTS.
   The city reserves the right, at any time, to discontinue the service of
providing monitoring of any and all Alarm Systems after 30 days written notice
to the Alarm Holder. The city is under no obligation to supply this special
type of service described in this Chapter to any person.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 6-10-96)
§ 98.11 ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   The Fire Chief and the Police Chief or their designees shall have the
responsibility for enforcement of this Chapter.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 6-10-96)
§ 98.12 DISPOSITION OF FEES AND CHARGES.
   Fees paid to file an application for the permit described herein, and all
charges relative to False Alarms, shall be paid directly to the Fire or Police.
All fees paid directly to the Police shall be dedicated, cumulatively, and
shall be non-reverting for the upgrading of response by the Police to burglary,
hold up, and robbery alarms. Such dedication shall include the acquisition of
appropriate equipment and related paraphernalia pertaining thereto.
   All fees paid directly to the Fire shall be dedicated, cumulatively, and
shall be non-reverting for the upgrading of response by the Fire to fire,
smoke, excessive heat, explosion, and drop in water pressure alarms. Such
dedication shall include acquisition of appropriate equipment and related
paraphernalia pertaining thereto.
   The office of the Clerk/Treasurer of the city shall maintain in its records
such dedicated funds on a cumulative basis.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 6-10-96)
§ 98.13 APPEALS.
      A decision by-the Chief of Police, the Fire Chief, or the Alarm Board may
be appealed by the Alarm Holder, or his delegate, to the Alarm Board within
thirty (30) days after the issuance of such decision.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 6-10-96)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any Section of this chapter or who fails to comply
with any of its requirements, including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with this chapter, shall be guilty of an ordinance
violation and shall be fined in the sum of not less than $25 nor more than
$2,500 for each day's violation. Every day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. Such imposition of a fine shall be in addition
to any service charge assessed pursuant to §
98.08 above.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval and publication as required by law. Any and all violations of the
existing Ordinance, Chapter 2.1 of the City Code, shall be prosecuted under
said Chapter 2.1 until this chapter becomes effective upon publication.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 6-10-96)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
         
111.   ADVERTISING
         
112.   AMUSEMENTS
         
113.   JUNKYARDS; SECONDHAND DEALERS
         
114.   MASSAGE PARLORS AND OTHER RELATED BUSINESSES
         
115.   SEPTIC TANK CONTRACTORS; COMMERCIAL TRASH HAULERS
         
116.   SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS; TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
         
117.   TAXICABS
         
118.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
         
119.   FOOD VENDING VEHICLES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
   
110.01   Issuance of license; transfer
   
110.02   License fees; duration of license
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; TRANSFER.
   All licenses provided for in this title shall be issued by the Clerk-
Treasurer and he shall account for the proceeds thereof by paying them into the
General Fund. Annual licenses may be transferred upon an order duly made by the
Board of Public Works and Safety except when the transfer thereof is
specifically prohibited by law.
('71 Code, § 110.02)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.02 LICENSE FEES; DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All licenses issued under this title shall be issued by the Clerk-
Treasurer upon application to him and payment to him of the license fee.
   (B)   All licenses shall be issued under this title for a period of one year
unless otherwise specified and shall expire on December 31 of the year in which
they were issued unless otherwise set forth in each particular license.
   (C)   In the event of any application for a license to go into effect at any
time after January 1 of any calendar year, the applicant shall be required to
pay for the license a prorated part for the portion of the year remaining up to
December 31 of that year; provided, that no calendar month shall be divided in
making such computation and that any portion of a calendar month shall be
counted as one month in the computation of time for that remaining portion of
the year.
('71 Code, § 110.01)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is otherwise provided, whoever violates any provision
of this title shall be fined not more than $2,500 and costs. Each day's
continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
('71 Code, § 110.99)
CHAPTER 111: ADVERTISING
Section
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Distribution of handbills
   
111.04   Billposters
   
111.05   Bills and posters
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   In order to protect the people against the nuisance of the promiscuous
distribution of handbills and circulars, particularly commercial handbills, the
public interests, convenience, and necessity requires the regulation thereof,
and to that end the purposes of this section shall be as follows:
   (A)   To protect the people against the activities or operations of persons
representing themselves as solicitors, canvassers, or handbill distributors, by
requiring the registration of all such solicitors, canvassers, or handbill
distributors, together with the names of their employers, and by regulating the
business of handbill and advertising distribution through the imposition of
reasonable license fees.
   (B)   To protect local residents against trespassing by solicitors,
canvassers, or handbill distributors on the private property of such residents
if they have given reasonable notice that they do not wish to be solicited by
such persons or do not desire to receive handbills or advertising matter.
   (C)   To protect the people against the health and safety menace and the
expense incident to the littering of the streets and public places by the
promiscuous and uncontrolled distribution of advertising matter and commercial
handbills.
   (D)   To preserve to the people their constitutional rights to receive and
disseminate information not restricted under the ordinary rules of decency and
good morals and public order, by the promiscuous distribution of advertising
and commercial circulars and the right to deliver noncommercial handbills to
all who are willing to receive such handbills.
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILLPOSTER. Any person engaging in the business for hire of posting,
fastening, nailing, or affixing any written, painted, or printed matter of any
kind, containing a message of information of any kind, to any outdoor
billboard, or on any bridge, fence, pole, post, sidewalk, tree, or on the
exterior of any other structure. This definition shall not apply to or include
any sign mounted on, fastened to, or suspended from the outside of any building
or other structure, in accordance with and authorized by any provision of this
code or any statute, either for any public convenience or use or for regulating
the construction or use of outdoor display signs whether the display signs are
illuminated or not.
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper booklet, or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature:
      (1)   Which advertises for sale any merchandise, produce, commodity, or
thing;
      (2)   Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales;
      (3)   Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition, or event of any kind, for which an admission fee is
charged for the purposes of private gain or profit; but the terms of this
clause shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection is
taken up for the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to such meeting,
theatrical performance, exhibition, or event of any kind, when either of the
same is held, given, or takes place in connection with the dissemination of
information which is not restricted under ordinary rules of decency, good
morals, public peace, safety, and good orders; provided, that nothing contained
in this clause shall be deemed to authorize the holding, giving, or taking
place of any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition, or event of any kind,
without a license, where such license is or may be required by any law of this
state, or under any ordinances of this city; or,
      (4)   Which, while containing reading matter other than advertisement,
and is distributed or circulated for advertising purposes or for the private
benefit and gain of any person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
   HANDBILL DISTRIBUTOR. Any person engaging or engaged in the business for
hire or gain of distributing commercial or noncommercial handbills, other than
newspapers distributed to subscribers thereof, and any person receiving
compensation directly or indirectly for the distribution of such handbills.
   NEWSPAPERS. Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law,
any newspaper duly entered with the Post Office Department of the United
States, in accordance with federal statute or regulation, and any newspaper
filed and recorded with any recording office as provided by general law; and in
addition thereto, shall mean and include any periodical or current magazine
regularly published with no less than four issues per year, and sold to the
public.
   NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet, or
any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of
literature not included in the definitions of commercial handbill or newspaper.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building, or other structure designed
or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily uninhabited or vacant, and shall include any yard,
ground, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule, or mailbox belonging or
appurtenance to such dwelling, house, building, or other structure.
§ 111.03 DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS.
   (A)   Throwing or distributing handbills in public places. No person shall
throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or on any
sidewalk, street, or other public place within the city, or hand out or
distribute or sell any commercial handbill in any public place; provided, that
any person may hand out or distribute or sell to the receiver thereof, any
noncommercial handbill to any person willing to accept it.
   (B)   Placing commercial and noncommercial handbills on vehicle.
      (1)   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or on any vehicle.
      (2)   This division (B) shall not prohibit any person in any public place
from handing out or distributing, without charge to the receiver thereof, a
noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing to accept
it.
   (C)   Distributing handbills on streets, highways, and intersections.
      (1)   No person shall, in the course of distributing commercial or
noncommercial handbills to occupants of vehicles temporarily stopped on city
streets, highways, or intersections, distribute handbills if such actions:
         (a)   Obstruct any public street, highway, or intersection by
hindering, impeding, or tending to hinder or impede the free and uninterrupted
passage of vehicles, traffic, or pedestrians;
         (b)   Create or cause to be created a danger of breach of the peace;
or,
         (c)   Create or cause to be created any danger to the life and safety
of pedestrians or occupants of vehicles engaged in lawful passage on any
street, highway, or intersection.
      (2)   Whenever any police officer shall, in the exercise of reasonable
judgment, decide that the presence of any handbill distributor on a street,
highway, or intersection is causing any of the conditions enumerated in
division (C) (1) above, he may, if he deems it necessary for the preservation
of the public peace and safety, order the person to leave that place. Any
person who shall refuse to leave after being ordered to do so by a police
officer shall be guilty of a violation of this division.
   (D)   Depositing commercial and noncommercial handbills on uninhabited or
vacant premises.
      (1)   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or on any private premises which are temporarily or continuously
uninhabited or vacant:
         (a)   Where it is apparent that the property is unoccupied;
         (b)   Where it is apparent that a previous day's distribution of
handbills has not been removed; or
         (c)   Where the owner has not given his permission to do so.
   (E)   Distribution of commercial and noncommercial handbills at inhabited
private premises.
      (1)   No person shall throw, deposit, or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or on private premises which are inhabited, except by
handing or transmitting any such handbill directly to the owner, occupant, or
other person then present in or on such private premises.
      (2)   Any person may place or deposit any noncommercial handbill in or on
inhabited private premises which are not posted, as provided in division (F)
hereafter, unless requested by anyone on such premises not to do so, may place
or deposit any such handbill in or on such inhabited private premises if such
handbill is so placed or deposited as to secure or prevent such handbill from
being blown or drifted about such premises or sidewalks, streets or other
public places, and except that mailboxes may not be so used when so prohibited
by federal postal law or regulations.
      (3)   This division (E) shall not apply to the distribution of mail by
the United States, nor to newspapers, except that newspapers shall be placed on
private property in such a manner as to prevent their being carried or
deposited by the elements on any street, sidewalk, or other public place or on
private property.
   (F)   Distributing handbills prohibited where premises properly posted. No
person shall throw, deposit, or distribute any commercial or noncommercial
handbill on private premises, if requested by anyone thereon not to do so, or
if there is placed on such premises in a conspicuous position near the entrance
thereof, a sign bearing the words "No Trespassing," "No Peddlers or Agents,"
"No Advertisement," or any similar notice, indicating in any matter that the
occupants of the premises do not desire to be molested or have their right of
privacy disturbed or to have any such handbills left on such premises.
   (G)   Hours of distribution. No person shall distribute or deposit any
commercial or noncommercial handbills daily from 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. of the
following morning.
   (H)   Commercial distributors of handbills; license required.
      (1)   No person shall engage in the business of a handbill distributor
for hire, without first complying with the provisions of this subchapter and
all other relevant laws and regulations.
      (2)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall apply to any person
advertising his business or activity on his own premises, if such business or
activity is regularly established at a definite location in the city, and if a
license has been obtained therefor, if a license is required under the terms of
any applicable law or ordinance.
   (I)   Application for commercial distributor's license; contents.
      (1)   Any person desiring to engage, as principal, in the business of
distributing commercial or noncommercial handbills for hire, shall make
application to and receive from the City Clerk, a distributor's license. Such
applicant shall make written application to the City Clerk on forms provided
for such purpose by the City Clerk.
      (2)   The forms shall contain, among other things that may be required,
the name, the business address, and a brief description of the nature of the
business to be conducted by the applicant, the probable number of agents and
employees so to be engaged, together with a request for a license for the
period for which the applicant seeks to engage in such business.
   (J)   License fees. License fees for a commercial distributor's license
shall be set by the City Council.
   (K)   Transferability of commercial distributor's license. No license issued
under this chapter shall be transferable to any other person.
   (L)   Refund of license fees. If any commercial distributor's license is
surrendered by the licensee or is revoked for cause, neither the licensee named
in such license nor any other person shall be entitled to any refund of part of
the license fee.
   (M)   Revocation of commercial distributor license. The City Council may
revoke any license obtained under an application containing a false or
fraudulent statement knowingly made by the applicant with intent to obtain a
license by means of false or fraudulent representations or for violation of
this chapter or any other grounds specified by law.
   (N)   Exemptions from division. The provisions of this division shall not be
deemed to apply to distribution of mail by the United States nor to newspapers.
   (O)   Commercial handbills; names of printer and distributor required. All
commercial handbills which are distributed, deposited, scattered, handed out,
or circulated in any place or under any circumstances shall have printed on the
corner, front, or back thereof, the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the person who printed, wrote, compiled, or
manufactured such handbill; and
      (2)   The name and address of the person who caused such handbill to be
distributed.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.04 BILLPOSTERS.
      (A)   License required; exception.
      (1)   No person shall engage in the business of a billposter for hire
without first complying with the terms of this chapter and all other relevant
laws and regulations.
      (2)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall apply to any person
advertising his business or activity on his own premises, if such business or
activity is regularly established at a definite location in such city, and also
if a license has been obtained therefor, if such license is required under the
terms of any applicable law or ordinance.
   (B)   Application for billposter's license.
      (1)   Any person, desiring to engage, as principal, in the business of a
billposter for hire, shall make application to and receive from the City Clerk
a license in the manner and for the period prescribed by the terms of this
chapter. Such applicant shall make written application to the City Clerk on
forms provided for such purpose by the City Clerk.
      (2)   The forms shall contain, among other things that may be required,
the name, the business address, and a brief description of the nature of the
business to be conducted by the applicant, the probable number of agents and
employees so to be engaged, together with a request for a license for the
period for which the applicant seeks to engage in such business. Such
application shall be accompanied by the fee provided by the City Council.
   (C)   Transferability of billposter's license. No license issued under this
section shall be transferable to any other person.
   (D)   Refund of license fee. If any billposter's license is surrendered by
the licensee, or is revoked for cause, neither the licensee named in such
license, nor any other person, shall be entitled to any refund of any part of
the license fee.
   (E)   Revocation of billposter's license. The City Council may revoke any
license obtained under an application containing a false or fraudulent
statement knowingly made by the applicant with intent to obtain a license by
means of false or fraudulent representations or for violation of this chapter
or any other grounds specified by law.
Penalty, see §10.99
§ 111.05 BILLS AND POSTERS.
   (A)   Posting notices prohibited; exception. No person shall post or affix
any notice, poster, or other paper or device, calculated to attract the
attention of the public, to any lamp post, public utility pole, or on any
public structure or building, except as may be authorized or required by law.
   (B)   Advertisements on sidewalks prohibited. No person shall print or paint
any signs or advertisements for any purpose whatsoever on the sidewalks of the
city.
   (C)   Bill posting without property owner's consent prohibited. No person
shall post, paint, burn, set up, or expose any bill, placard, or advertisement,
or cause the same to be posted, painted, burnt, set up, or exposed on the
property or premises of any other person without first obtaining the consent of
the legal owner or custodian of such property or premises.
   (D)   Removing or defacing bills prohibited. No person shall willfully or
recklessly remove, tear down, deface, injure, or destroy any written or printed
handbill, poster, or other notice or advertisement of like character legally
posted or otherwise legally displayed, in any public place in this city, so
long as the same shall be of value for the purposes thereof to the person who
posted or displayed the same, or caused it to be posted or displayed.
   (E)   Posting bills on utility poles. No person shall paint, post, paste, or
otherwise in any manner attach any bills, posters, streamers, or display
advertisements on any telephone, telegraph, or electric light poles located on
the streets, thoroughfares, or alleys in the city.
   (F)   City employees to remove bills or advertisements.
      (1)   The employees of the Police Department shall tear down or remove
any bills, posters, or display advertisements in any manner attached to any
telephone, telegraph, or electric light poles.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to traffic signs.
   (G)   Permits for signs and advertisements on and across streets. No person
shall erect, hang, or display signs and advertisements for any purpose
whatsoever on and across the streets and public thoroughfares of the city,
without first obtaining a permit from the City Council.
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Mechanical Amusement Devices
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required; fee; term
   
112.03   Location of equipment restricted
   
112.04   Use by minor prohibited
Public Dances
   
112.15   Definition
   
112.16   Permit required
   
112.17   Public dance without permit declared nuisance
   
112.18   Permit fees
   
112.19   Attendance by minors; hours permitted
   
112.20   Exemptions
Theaters; Movies
   
112.30   License required; fee
Carnivals
   
112.40   License required; fee
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Ordinance Violations Bureau, see
Chapter 36
MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person, firm or corporation who owns, services, or
distributes to business establishments and private clubs pinball machines or
other amusement devices.
   OTHER AMUSEMENT DEVICES. Coin-operated or electrically-operated machines,
the purpose of which is to afford recreation to the patrons of business
establishments and private clubs. Without limiting the generality of the
definition of PINBALL MACHINE, the following shall be included: Miniature
bowling alleys, miniature shuffle boards, pin-pool tables, target shoots,
jukeboxes, picture-taking machines and other electrically operated amusement
devices.
   PINBALL MACHINE. A coin-operated or electrically-operated amusement device
containing one or more metal balls or marbles, found in business establishments
and private clubs for the profit of its distributors and the business
establishments and private clubs, and the amusement only of the patrons of
those establishments.
('71 Code, § 112.20) (Ord. 14-80, passed 3-25-80)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE; TERM.
   (A)   No distributor shall expose to the public through the median of
business establishments or private clubs any pinball machines or amusements
device without first purchasing from the Clerk-Treasurer a current license for
that pinball machine or amusement device, and causing the same to be
prominently displayed somewhere on the pinball machine or amusement device.
   (B)   Each distributor shall pay a fee as set out hereinafter for each
machine placed by that distributor at any location within the city. The fee
shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer, and upon payment thereof, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall issue a permit for the distributor for those machines placed at
each location. At no time shall the number of machines at any given location
exceed the number of machines for which the distributor has paid a fee.
   (C)   The fee shall be paid annually prior to January 31 and shall be $15
per machines for each calendar year. In the event a distributor places a
machine after July 1, and before December 31, he shall be required to pay only
$7.50 for the year in which it is so placed.
('71 Code, § 112.21) (Ord. 14-80, passed 3-25-80; Am. Ord. 50-1983, passed 12-
6-83)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.03 LOCATION OF EQUIPMENT RESTRICTED.
   No person or legal entity shall distribute, own, operate, keep or maintain
any pinball machine or amusement device within 300 feet of the property line of
any property being used in conjunction with an elementary or secondary school
grades 1 through 12.
('71 Code, § 112.24) (Ord. 53-10, passed 9-8-80)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.04 USE BY MINOR PROHIBITED.
   No person under the age of 13 years of age shall play a pinball machine
within the city.
('71 Code, § 112.22) (Ord. 14-80, passed 3-25-80)
Penalty, see § 112.99
PUBLIC DANCES
§ 112.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC DANCE. Any dance wherein music, live or recorded or both, is provided
for the entertainment and dancing of persons attending to which solicitation
for attendance is made to the public, and not less than ten persons to attend.
('71 Code, § 112.01) (Ord. 1335, passed 9-27-66)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.16 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No public dance may be given within the limits of the city without first
securing a permit from the office of the Clerk-Treasurer with notice delivered
simultaneously to the office of the Chief of Police by the permittee, dated.
Receipt of a copy by the desk officer shall evidence compliance.
('71 Code, § 112.02) (Ord. 1335, passed 9-27-66)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.17 PUBLIC DANCE WITHOUT PERMIT DECLARED NUISANCE.
   A public dance conducted without a permit provided herein shall be and is
hereby deemed to constitute a public nuisance.
('71 Code, § 112.03) (Ord. 1335, passed 9-27-66)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.18 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Permits herein provided for shall be provided by the Clerk-Treasurer
for a fee of $5 which shall be deposited in the General Fund and are not to be
effective until a copy thereof is delivered to the desk officer of the police
by the purchaser.
   (B)   No permit shall be effective which issued for a date less than ten
days following the date of application. The permit shall describe on its face
the name of the applicant, the date for which it is sought, the date of the
application and the place in which the dance shall be held.
('71 Code, § 112.04) (Ord. 1335, passed 9-27-66)
§ 112.19 ATTENDANCE BY MINORS; HOURS PERMITTED.
   In the event the dance shall be attended by persons 18 years of age or
under, the permit shall contain the hours of operation, not later than 11:30
p.m., and may not by issued for dates other than Friday, Saturday or official
holidays or the evenings preceding thereof. An off-duty law officer shall be in
attendance.
('71 Code, § 112.05) (Ord. 1335, passed 9-27-66)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.20 EXEMPTIONS.
   Clubs and social organizations which have been in existence for not less
than five years are exempt from the provisions of this subchapter.
('71 Code, § 112.06) (Ord. 1335, passed 9-27-66)
THEATERS; MOVIES
§ 112.30 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   No person shall operate, manage or conduct within the city any theater or
moving picture house, where entertainment is furnished for the public for gain
or profit, without first obtaining a license to do so. The fee shall be $60 per
year for each theater and moving picture house so operated; however, no license
shall be required from any church, school benevolent or fraternal organization
for any operatic or theatrical performances, lectures, musical entertainments,
museums or exhibitions of any kind given by them for religious or charitable
purposes.
('71 Code, § 112.10)
Penalty, see § 112.99
CARNIVALS
§ 112.40 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   No person shall operate, manage or conduct within the city, for gain or
profit, any entertainment or show, whether under tent or otherwise, which is of
the class and character known as a carnival or circus, without first obtaining
a license to do so from the Clerk-Treasurer. The license fee shall $50 per day
and shall be accounted for by the Clerk-Treasurer as other license fees are
accounted for under the provisions of this code and any other applicable
ordinances of the city, and further payment of the sum of $20 per day to the
Clerk-Treasurer for the hiring of police officers to police the carnival during
its operation in the city, the $20 to be paid to the police officers who are
assigned to the duty; provided, that no license shall be issued to any carnival
or circus unless the manager, owner, agent or representative of that carnival
shall give notice to the Clerk-Treasurer of his intention to apply for the
license at least 30 days before the initial opening of the carnival or circus.
No license shall be issued to show on Sunday.
('71 Code, § 112.15)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$2,500 and costs. Each day's continued violation shall constitute a separate
violation.
CHAPTER 113: JUNKYARDS; SECONDHAND DEALERS
Section
Junkyards
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Application of the Zoning Code
   
113.03   Permit required; application; fee
   
113.04   Registration list; inspections
   
113.05   Standards of operation
   
113.06   Records required to be kept by junk dealer
   
113.07   Duties of inspector
   
113.08   Effect upon existing junkyards; prior nonconforming uses
   
113.09   Appeals
Secondhand dealers; Pawnbrokers
   
113.20   Records to be kept
JUNKYARDS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY INSPECTOR. The City Inspector of the city.
   JUNK. Any personal property which is owner, possessed, collected,
accumulated, dismantled or assorted, including, but not limited to, used or
salvaged base metal or metals, their compounds or compounds or combinations,
used or salvaged rope, bags, paper, rags, glass, rubber, lumber, millwork,
brick and similar property except animal matter, and used motor vehicles,
machinery or equipment, for the purpose of wrecking or salvaging parts
therefrom.
   JUNKYARD. Any place at which personal property is or may be salvaged for
reuse, resale or reduction or similar disposition and is owned, possessed,
collected, accumulated, dismantled or assorted, including, but not limited to,
used or salvaged base metal or metals, their compounds or combinations, used or
salvaged rope, bags, paper, rags, glass, rubber, lumber, millwork, brick and
similar property except animal matter, and used motor vehicles, machinery or
equipment which are used, owned or possessed for the purpose of wrecking or
salvaging parts therefrom.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization or any
other group acting as a unit, as well as a natural person.
('71 Code, § 113.01)
§ 113.02 APPLICATION OF THE ZONING CODE.
   The regulations and other matters provided herein are deemed to be in
addition and supplemental to the requirements of
Chapter 159.
('71 Code, § 113.02)
§ 113.03 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEE.
   No person owning, leasing or having control of any land in the city shall
use or permit the same to be used as a location for a junkyard operation
without first having applied for and received a permit therefor from the City
Inspector and complying with the provisions of this chapter and applicable
ordinances of the city. Payment in the amount of $25 shall be included with the
application, and if the permit is issued, shall constitute the first annual
permit fee. If the permit is refused, the fee shall be returned to the
applicant.
('71 Code, § 113.06)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 113.04 REGISTRATION LIST; INSPECTIONS.
   The City Inspector shall keep a registration list of all existing and future
junkyards in the city. He shall periodically inspect those junkyards for
compliance with these regulations, and shall inspect each junkyard upon each
annual application for a permit.
('71 Code, § 113.04)
§ 113.05 STANDARDS OF OPERATION.
   In granting a building permit for the location and use of premises or land
for a junkyard, the City Inspector shall require the following:
   (A)   The area to be occupied by the junkyard shall be located at a distance
of at least 300 feet from any residential district.
   (B)   Every junkyard operation either shall be conducted wholly within a
substantially constructed building or within an area which shall be surrounded
completely on all sides by a building or buildings and a continuous solid fence
except for entrances and exits (approved as to location by the City Plan
Commission) constructed of brick, block, metal, concrete or wood and kept in
repair. The fence shall be at least eight feet in height and shall be
constructed at street corner intersections so as to permit adequate vision
clearance on the street. The fence when constructed of wood shall be completely
and uniformly painted.
   (C)   No junk shall be stored outside the enclosure fence, either on the
property or in the public right-of-way.
   (D)   Every junkyard shall be conducted so as not to create as nuisance for
reason of noise or disagreeable odors or fumes.
   (E)   The operator, owner or his employees of every junkyard may burn junk
only after first obtaining a permit therefor from the City Inspector and only
within an incinerator approved by the City Inspector, except that the City
Inspector may permit the burning of certain types of junk outside an
incinerator when such property is too large to accommodated therein. Standards
established in the zoning code for general industrial uses for smoke density,
fly ash, dust, odor, fumes, glare, vibration, noise and sound and parking,
loading and unloading facilities shall apply to junkyards.
   (F)   All premises used as a junkyard shall be maintained in a clean,
sanitary and neat condition so that rats, vermin and fire hazards shall be
reduced to a minimum and the accumulation of anything not defined as junk,
including waste foodstuffs and similar materials, shall not be permitted.
   (G)   The owner of any junkyard in the city shall keep or shall require the
operator thereof to keep an up-to-date list of all purchases of junk, including
the names and addresses of all persons selling junk to that owner or operator.
The list shall date back at least one year at all times and shall be kept
available to the police officers of the city, county and all other authorized
police officers during all hours of business.
('71 Code, § 113.05)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 113.06 RECORDS REQUIRED TO BE KEPT BY JUNK DEALER.
   Every junk dealer shall keep a book in which he shall enter at the time of
purchase of any brass, copper, aluminum, alloy, brass or copper wire, wire,
brass, copper or alloy parts of machinery, fittings and appliances, a
description of the article purchased together with the name and address of the
person from whom that article is purchased. This book shall be opened to
inspection by the police at any and all times.
('71 Code, § 113.09)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 113.07 DUTIES OF INSPECTOR.
   It shall be the duty of the City Inspector to administer this chapter.
('71 Code, § 113.03)
§ 113.08 EFFECT UPON EXISTING JUNKYARDS; PRIOR NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Persons owning, leasing or having control of junkyards existing at the
time of passage of Ordinance 1092, passed April 19, 1961, shall not be required
to make application for a building permit for the operation thereof, but shall
register the junkyard with the City Inspector, and shall otherwise comply with
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Persons owning, leasing or having control of junkyards existing as
nonconforming uses, according to the provisions of the zoning code, shall cause
the same to be amortized pursuant to the terms of the zoning code.
('71 Code, § 113.07)
§ 113.09 APPEALS.
   Whenever the City Inspector shall disapprove an application for refuse to
grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of this
subchapter do not apply, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the City
Inspector to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
('71 Code, § 113.08)
SECONDHAND DEALERS; PAWNBROKERS
§ 113.20 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   Every pawnshop, pawnbroker and secondhand dealer shall keep a book in which
shall be entered at the time of pledge or purchase every article purchased from
any person for sale together with the name and address of the person from whom
the article was purchased, and by whom the article is pledged. This book shall
be opened for inspection by the police at any and all times.
('71 Code, § 116.01)
Penalty, see § 110.99
CHAPTER 114: MASSAGE PARLORS AND OTHER RELATED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Standards of operations
   
114.03   Complaints; action to be taken
Licensing Requirements
   
114.15   License required
   
114.16   Application for licenses; information; health certificate
   
114.17   License fees
   
114.18   Issuance or rejection of application; qualifications
 
   
114.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BATHHOUSE. Any building, room, place or establishment other than a regularly
licensed hospital, dispensary, hotel, rooming house or public lodging house,
where members of the public are provided with baths, regardless of whether
steam, vapor, water, sauna or otherwise.
   BODY PAINTING MODEL. Any person who allows any part of his or her body to be
painted with paint, dye, tint, spray or other material while that person is
serving as an employee or receiving other compensation by or through any body
painting studio as defined in this section.
   BODY PAINTING STUDIO. Any shop, establishment, place of business or other
operation that employs or otherwise compensates persons for serving as models
for the painting of any part of the human body with any paint, dye, tint, spray
or other material.
   ESCORT. Any person who is employed or otherwise compensated by or through
any escort service for serving as an escort, host or hostess.
   ESCORT SERVICE. Any shop, establishment, place of business or other
operation that employs or  otherwise compensates persons to serve as escorts,
hosts or hostesses.
   MASSAGE. Any method of treating the superficial soft parts of the body for
remedial or hygienic purposes, consisting of rubbing, stroking, kneading or
tapping with the hands or instruments.
   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any building, room, place or establishment, other than a
regularly licensed hospital or dispensary where nonmedical and nonsurgical
manipulative exercises are practiced upon the human body with or without the
use of mechanical or bath devices, by anyone not a physician, osteopath,
chiropractor, podiatrist or physical therapist duly registered with and
licensed with the state.
   MASSAGE SCHOOL. Any bathhouse or massage parlor, defined in this section,
where the act of massage as defined in this section is either taught or
practiced.
   MASSAGE THERAPIST. Any person who practices, administers or teaches all or
any of the subjects or methods of treatment defined in this section as massage
therapy.
   MASSAGE THERAPY. The act of body massage, either by mechanical or electrical
apparatus, for the purpose of reducing or contouring the body by the use of oil
rub, salt, hot and cold packs, cold showers and cabinet baths.
   MASSAGE THERAPY CLINIC. Any shop, establishment or place of business where
any or all of the methods of massage therapy are administered or used.
   MASSAGE THERAPY SCHOOL. Any duly registered massage therapy establishment
where a tuition is charged for the instruction of massage therapy techniques.
   NUDE MODEL. Any person who engages in nude modeling for a nude modeling
studio.
   NUDE MODELING. The posing by any person with his or her sexual and/or
genital areas exposed, while such person is an employee or receiving other
compensation by or through any nude modeling studio, as defined in this
section. However, nude modeling at or on behalf of any properly accredited
institution of higher learning shall not fall within this definition.
   NUDE MODELING STUDIO. Any shop, establishment, place of business or other
operation that employs or otherwise compensates persons for serving as models
for purposes of nude modeling. However, any properly accredited institution of
higher learning shall not fall within this definition.
   PRIVATE CLUB. An organization or association maintaining clubrooms or other
recreation or social facilities used primarily for purposes other than a
bathhouse or massage parlor, membership in which is limited to persons paying
regular dues or assessments.
   PRIVATE HEALTH CLUB. A facility for exercise and physical training which is
operated for and open only to members of a private club and their invited
guests.
   SEXUAL AND GENITAL AREA. The sexual or genital area of any person and shall
include the genitals, pubic area, anus or perineum or any person, or the vulva
or breast of the female.
('77 Code, § 122.01) (Ord. 22-79, passed 6-11-79)
§ 114.02 STANDARDS OF OPERATIONS.
   (A)   No massage school, massage parlor, massage therapy clinic, bathhouse,
escort service. body painting studio or nude modeling studio shall be operated
or conducted, in or with a separate opening to living quarters and a separate
entrance to the place of business. No one should use the building quarters for
a place of habitation.
   (B)   All licenses or permit holders shall be subject to all other city
ordinances, county ordinances and state statutes and to regulations of various
administrative bodies of the city, county and state. Violation of regulation,
ordinances or statutes shall be grounds for revocation of licenses or permits.
   (C)   All licensed operators or permit holders under this chapter shall show
their licenses or permits in a visible location in their establishment.
   (D)   No person shall be employed by any licensee under this chapter or be
within view of any of the services rendered by a massage parlor, massage
therapy clinic, bathhouse, escort service, body painting studio or nude
modeling studio who has not reached the age of 21 years.
   (E)   No person holding a license under this chapter shall administer to a
person of the opposite sex, any massage, alcohol rub or similar treatment,
fomentation, bath or electric magnetic treatment, except upon the signed order
of a licensed physician, osteopath, chiropractor, podiatrist or registered
therapist. A person shall neither cause nor permit in or about his place of
business. any agent, employee, servant or other individual to administer any
such treatment to any individual of the opposite sex.
   (F)   All employees of establishments licensed under this chapter, including
masseurs, masseuses, therapists, escorts and body painting models, but not
including male models, shall wear clean, nontransparent outer garments covering
the sexual and genital areas.
   (G)   The sexual or genital areas of patrons of establishments required to
be licensed under this chapter must be covered with towels, clothes or
undergarments when in the presence of an employee, masseur, masseuse,
therapist, escort, body painting model or nude model.
   (H)   No person in any establishment licensed under this chapter shall place
his or her hand upon or touch with any part of his body or fondle in any manner
or massage a sexual or genital area of any other person.
   (I)   No employee of an establishment licensed under this chapter shall
perform, offer or agree to perform, any act which shall require the touching of
the patron's genitals.
   (J)   Every massage school, massage parlor, massage therapy clinic,
bathhouse, escort service, body painting studio or nude modeling studio shall
be open for inspection during all business hours and at other reasonable times
by police officer, health and fire inspectors, and duly authorized
representatives of the city upon the showing of proper credentials by those
persons.
   (K)   Any bathhouse, massage parlor, massage therapy clinic, massage school,
escort service, body painting studio or nude modeling studio, or any
combination thereof, is prohibited from installing or maintaining any lock or
similar device on the inside of any door of that business which cannot be
operated by key or knob from the exterior of the door.
   (L)   Any establishment licensed under this chapter, as a private health
club shall maintain a current list of members, as the case may be, and a roster
of those receiving massage therapy by dates, which lists and rosters of those
receiving massage therapy shall be available to anyone inspecting the
establishment pursuant to division (J).
   (M)   No person holding a license under this chapter shall paint the body of
a person of the opposite sex. A person shall neither cause nor permit in or
about his place of business or in connection with his business, any agent,
employee, servant or other individual to administer any such treatment to any
individual of the opposite sex.
('77 Code, § 122.05) (Ord. 22-79, passed 6-11-79)
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.03 COMPLAINTS; ACTION TO BE TAKEN.
   All complaints of alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter shall
be made in writing to the City Clerk-Treasurer. Upon learning of violations of
the provisions of this chapter, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall take the
following action:
   (A)   If a license has been previously issued, the City Clerk-Treasurer
shall insure that a hearing i conducted to determine the validity of all those
complaints. After a hearing thereon, if the City Clerk-Treasurer should
determine that the license shall be revoked, no refund of license or permit fee
shall be due.
   (B)   If a license has not been previously issued, the City Clerk-Treasurer
shall refer the matter to the City Attorney for proper action.
('77 Code, § 122.07) (Ord. 22-79, passed 6-11-79)
LICENSING REQUIREMENTS
§ 114.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person or firm to operate, conduct or maintain
a massage school, massage parlor, massage therapy clinic, bathhouse, escort
service, body painting studio or nude modeling studio without a license to
operate such massage school, massage parlor, massage therapy clinic, bathhouse,
escort service, body painting studio or nude modeling studio issued by the City
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm licensed to operate a
massage school, massage parlor, massage therapy clinic, bathhouse, escort
service, body painting studio or nude modeling studio to employ or permit any
person to perform a massage unless such person is licensed as a massage
therapist by the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be employed as a massage
therapist or to perform massages for a fee unless such person is licensed as a
massage therapist by the City Clerk-Treasurer.
('77 Code, § 122.02) (Ord. 22-79, passed 6-11-79)
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.16 APPLICATION FOR LICENSES; INFORMATION; HEALTH CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The application for a license to operate a massage school. massage
parlor, massage therapy clinic, bathhouse, escort service, body painting studio
or nude modeling studio shall contain the following information and should be
individually signed by the applicant:
      (1)   Name of applicant and aliases;
      (2)   Resident address of applicant and former address for the past three
years;
      (3)   Business address of applicant;
      (4)   Number of massage tables, showers, stalls or other such individual
units;
      (5)   The age, date of birth and citizenship of applicant, in the case of
individuals, and of the manager and officers in the case of a corporation;
      (6)   The names, addresses, ages, citizenship and designations of each
person connected with the applicant's establishment;
      (7)   Whether the applicant or its manager or officers have ever been
previously engaged in operating a massage school, massage parlor, massage
therapy clinic, bathhouse, escort service, body painting studio or nude
modeling studio;
      (8)   Whether any applicant, or in the case of a corporation, its
managers, officers. directors or stockholders, have ever been convicted of any
act of violence, moral turpitude, sex offense or prior violation of this
chapter;
      (9)   Any agreement by the operator permitting inspection;
      (10)    Type of license being applied for by the applicant.
   (B)   Along with the operator's application for a license, there shall be
filed a verified application by each individual who is employed in the
establishment who is required by this chapter to be licensed. The application
should contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and aliases;
      (2)   Age, date of birth;
      (3)   Address and former addresses for the past three years;
      (4)   Citizenship;
      (5)   Whether convicted of any public offense concerning an act of
violence, moral turpitude, sex offense or prior violation of this chapter; and
      (6)   Nature of work performed.
   (C)   Along with the aforesaid applications for licenses there shall be a
certificate from a duly licensed medical practitioner, certifying that the
applicant is free from communicable diseases and that the examination has been
made within 30 days prior to the application for the license or permit herein
sought.
('77 Code, § 122.03) (Ord. 22-79, passed 6-11-79)
§ 114.17 LICENSE FEES.
   The annual license fee for each person who operates or is employed by a
massage parlor, massage therapy clinic, bathhouse, escort service, body
painting studio or nude modeling studio, or any combination thereof, shall be
determined in accordance with the following scale:
   (A)   Class A license shall be required for all private health clubs the fee
for said license to be $50 annually.
   (B)   Class B license shall be required for all other owners of the above-
mentioned businesses; the fee for said license to be $250 annually.
   (C)   Class C license shall be required for persons employed as massage
therapists, escorts. body painting models and/or nude models for a nude
modeling studio, the fee for said license to be $25 annually for each person.
('77 Code, § 122.04) (Ord. 22-79, passed 6-11-79)
§ 114.18 ISSUANCE OR REJECTION OF APPLICATION; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The controller, before issuing any license provided for herein, shall
investigate the character of the applicant, and the officers, directors, and
managers of the business if it is a corporation. No license shall be issued if
he shall find:
      (1)   That any of the persons named in the application or that any
employee thereof are not persons of good moral character;
      (2)   That any of those person have previously been connected with any
massage school, massage parlor, massage therapy clinic, bathhouse, escort
service, body painting studio or nude modeling studio where the license
therefor has heretofore been revoked, or where any of the provisions of the law
application to massage clinics, bathhouses, escort services, body painting
studios or nude modeling studios have been violated; and
      (3)   That the premises sought to be so licensed fail to comply in any
manner with the ordinances and laws applicable thereto.
   (B)   All applicants for licenses to engage in the practice of massage
therapy must submit a certificate of affidavit of their respective
qualifications as to schooling, training and experience and where and how
obtained.
('77 Code, § 122.06) ('77 Code, § 122.01)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less than
$100 nor more than $2,500 and costs. Each day's continued violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
('77 Code, § 122.08) (Ord. 22-79, passed 6-11-79)
CHAPTER 115: SEPTIC TANK CONTRACTORS; COMMERCIAL TRASH HAULERS
Section
Septic Tank Contractors
   
115.01   License required
   
115.02   Issuance of license; license fee
   
115.03   Renewal of license; application
   
115.04   Disposal fee
   
115.05   Deposit of cleanings
   
115.06   Sample submittal
Commercial Trash Haulers
   
115.20   License required
   
115.21   Bond required
   
115.22   Service agreement required
   
115.23   Truck requirements
   
115.24   Industry/construction
Commercial Dumpsters
   
115.30   Permit required
   
115.31   Requirements
   
115.32   Responsibilities
   
115.33   Permit fee
   
115.34   Public safety
   
115.35   Dumpsters located on private property
 
   
115.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   For provisions pertaining to sewage, see
Ch. 51
   For provisions pertaining to solid waste, landfills and the like, see
Ch. 50
SEPTIC TANK CONTRACTORS
§ 115.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the servicing, cleaning, disposing and hauling of
septic tank waste within the city or from areas outside the city that will
utilize the city's dumping station at the wastewater treatment plant until that
time as he has applied for and has been issued a license to do so by the Clerk-
Treasurer.
('71 Code, § 118.01) (Ord. 1-90, passed 1-22-90; Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 6-13-
05)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.02 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; LICENSE FEE.
   No person shall be issued a license by the Clerk-Treasurer until that time
as he displays or gives evidence of the fact that a license has been issued to
him by the Commissioner of Health of the state to engage in the servicing and
cleaning of septic tanks, seepage pits or cesspools. In the event he
establishes to the satisfaction of the Clerk-Treasurer that he has been duly
licensed by the Commissioner of Health of the state, upon the payment of a
license fee of $50, he shall be issued appropriate licensed dumping cards for
identification and processing purposes and he shall be entitled to be issued a
license to engage in servicing and cleaning of septic tank waste which shall
also be construed to mean cesspool, dry pit or seepage pits waste, for the year
in which the license has been issued. Dumping septic waste will not be
permitted at the city dumping station without use and/or presentation of the
license/dumping card.
('71 Code, § 118.02) (Ord. 1-90, passed 1-22-90; Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 6-13-
05)
§ 115.03 RENEWAL OF LICENSE; APPLICATION.
   Every person who desires to engage in the occupation of servicing and
cleaning of septic tanks, seepage pits, or cesspools must, on or before March 1
of each year, apply for a license or a renewal of his license, if one has been
previously issued to him.
('71 Code, § 118.03) (Ord. 1-90, passed 1-22-90; Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 6-13-
05)
§ 115.04 DISPOSAL FEE.
   All personal engaged in the occupation of servicing and cleaning of septic
tanks, seepage pits or cesspools shall be charged the sum of $120 per dump of
waste for septic waste hauling trucks with a rated capacity of less or equal to
1,500 gallons and $140 per dump for truck capacities larger than 1,500 gallons
for the right and privilege to dispose of their cleanings in the sanitary sewer
system of the city, such fee to be payable upon receipt of billing from the
City Clerk-Treasurer's office. Failure to pay that billing will result in
suspension of the license.
('71 Code, § 118.05) (Ord. 1-90, passed 1-22-90; Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 6-13-
05)
§ 115.05 DEPOSIT OF CLEANINGS.
   Any person engaged in the occupation of servicing and cleaning of septic
tanks, seepage pits or cesspools within the city must deposit his cleanings in
the sanitary sewage system of the city.
('71 Code, § 118.04) (Ord. 1-90, passed 1-22-90; Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 6-13-
05)
§ 115.06 SAMPLE SUBMITTAL.
   Each time the septic tank waste is dumped, a sample of the waste shall be
obtained by the hauler in a sample bottle and presented to one of the treatment
plant operators. Failure to do so will result in a $20 penalty added to the
dumping fee. Sample bottles may be obtained from the treatment plant staff.
('71 Code, § 118.06) (Ord. 1-90, passed 1-22-90; Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 6-13-
05)
COMMERCIAL TRASH HAULERS
§ 115.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business as a residential or commercial
collector of garbage and rubbish unless having first made application and
secured a license from the city. The license fee shall be $100.
   (B)   The license shall be for the period of one year, commencing on January
1 and expiring on December 31.
   (C)   Upon application for a license, the person applying for the same shall
furnish the City Clerk-Treasurer, along with the application, proof of
insurance in the amount of $500,000/$250,000 liability and property damage. The
application shall show the size and number of bags/cans/dumpster per pickup for
the service. The application shall set forth how often each week that the
collector shall schedule his pickups within the city. A current and up-to-date
copy of this schedule must be provided to the City Sanitation Department at the
time of application and shall be kept up to date by the commercial hauler;
changes must be continuously provided to the City Sanitation Department. The
commercial hauler shall keep on hand and provide to the City Sanitation
Department a list of all customers the commercial hauler services within the
city limits.
(Ord. 8-93, passed 5-10-93; Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 6-13-05)
Penalty, see § 115.99
§ 115.21 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Upon receipt of license commercial hauler shall post a $150
performance bond or cash deposit as liquidated damages with the City Clerk.
   (B)   This bond will be forfeited and license revoked should any of the
stipulations in this subchapter be violated.
   (C)   At the time of forfeiture of the bond, and revocation of the license,
the commercial hauler shall cease all operation of any hauling services within
the city limits.
   (D)   Upon the posting of a new performance bond of $200 the license shall
be reinstated and inner city hauling may resume.
   (E)   Each time the performance bond is forfeited for any reason, the new
bond amount shall increase $50. (i.e., first offense new bond shall be $200,
second offense new bond shall be $250, third offense new bond shall be $300.
   (F)   Upon the third forfeiture of bond and revocation of license the
commercial hauler will be required to obtain the permission of the Board of
Public Works and Safety before resuming hauling operations within the city
limits.
   (G)   Upon completion of 12 consecutive months with no further forfeiture of
bond or revocation of license the performance bond rate shall revert to the
base rate of $150.
(Ord. 8-93, passed 5-10-93; Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 6-13-05)
§ 115.22 SERVICE AGREEMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   All commercial haulers shall be required to provide their customers
with a written service agreement to include a written and signed (by the
customer and commercial hauler) stipulation regarding the placement of trash
containers. This agreement shall also include the day of the scheduled service
and shall stipulate that the customer's containers shall be kept out of public
view when not being placed out for pickup, that containers cannot be set out in
public view more than two hours prior to sundown (dusk) on the date preceding
scheduled trash collection and that containers must be removed from public view
within 12 hours following the scheduled trash collection day. It shall also be
stated that it is a violation of this subchapter to place garbage or rubbish in
such a manner as to allow same to be blown by the wind onto the property of
other residents or that allows dogs, cats or other animals to tear open bags or
scatter trash in any manner.
   (B)   It shall be the commercial haulers responsibility to enforce their
service agreements with their customers.
   (C)   Failure to enforce this commercial hauler/customer service agreement
shall result in the forfeiture of the said commercial hauler's performance bond
and license can be revoked.
(Ord. 8-93, passed 5-10-93; Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 6-13-05)
§ 115.23 TRUCK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The firm for the handling of collection of trash shall be of good
character and give evidence that the equipment used by them is adequate for the
purpose intended. The firm shall have a truck or trucks which shall be so
designed that garbage or rubbish which is collected will be covered at all
times, except in the loading of garbage or rubbish. The trucks and all
containers in which garbage is collected shall be kept clean.
   (B)   A garbage truck or other equipment shall not be washed on city streets
and will not be washed where the waste waters will cause any offensive odors to
adjoining property owners.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to place garbage or rubbish in such a manner as
to allow same to be blown by the wind onto the property of other residents or
that allows dogs, cats or other animals to tear open bags or otherwise scatter
trash.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to deposit or permit to fall from any vehicle,
any garbage or refuse on any public street or alley in the city; provided that
this subchapter shall not be construed to prohibit placing garbage or refuse in
a container complying with the provisions of this subchapter preparatory to
having such material collected and disposed of in the manner provided herein.
   (E)   All wagons or vehicles engaged in hauling and conveying of garbage,
rubbish or other debris within the city limits shall bear the name and address
of the person engaged in the business, and shall further be labeled as to the
contents being hauled by the vehicle and the city license number, such name and
label to be printed or stamped on the vehicle in letters of not less than two
inches in size.
(Ord. 8-93, passed 5-10-93; Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 6-13-05)
§ 115.24 INDUSTRY/CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to prevent or regulate the
hauling of rubbish or refuse from industrial processes, from construction
projects or other matter not normally collected on a regular schedule and
haulers of rubbish, not normally collected in regular collections, shall be
excused from the requirements of obtaining a collector's license as provided in
this subchapter. However, any industry or construction debris hauler must post
the required $150 performance bond as herein described in the above.
   (B)   This performance bond shall be forfeited if the commercial
construction or industrial hauler is found to be in violation of any of the
stipulations described in this subchapter.
   (C)   Upon forfeiture of the performance bond due to noncompliance the
construction/industrial hauler will post another $150 plus an additional $50
each time it is forfeited.
   (D)   Upon the third forfeiture of the performance bond the construction/
industrial hauler will be required to obtain the approval of the Board of
Public Works and Safety before they may resume hauling construction/industrial
debris or refuse of any type within the city limits.
(Ord. 8-93, passed 5-10-93; Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 6-13-05)
COMMERCIAL DUMPSTERS
§ 115.30 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Commercial trash haulers are required to purchase a permit from the City
Inspector's office to place or locate a dumpster on any city property or public
property.
(Ord. 5-2010, passed 5-24-10) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.31 REQUIREMENTS.
   To place or locate a dumpster on city property or public property, the
dumpster must be located within six inches of the curb, cannot block
crosswalks, cannot block driveways other than lessee driveway. Dumpster must be
located in front of the lessee's residence or business. Dumpsters cannot be
located on sidewalks. No dumpster shall be placed in front of a yellow no
parking curb.
(Ord. 5-2010, passed 5-24-10) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.32 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   Commercial dumpster contractor will be responsible for any and all damages
caused to the city street and or city and public property.
(Ord. 5-2010, passed 5-24-10) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.33 PERMIT FEE.
   Permit fee to locate a dumpster on city or public property shall be $50 and
issued by the office of the City Inspector. Dumpster permits are valid for a
period of 30 days from date of issue. Prior to the issuance of a permit, the
location must be approved by the City Inspector or Police Department. Dumpsters
requiring more than 30 days on location shall apply for an extension to the
office of the City Inspector prior to the expiration of the initial permit.
Extensions may be granted subject to the discretion of the City Inspector and
may not be for a period in excess of ten additional days and with an additional
$25 extension fee.
(Ord. 5-2010, passed 5-24-10) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.34 PUBLIC SAFETY.
   Placement or location of dumpster shall not impede traffic or create a
safety hazard. In the event the placement or location of a dumpster should pose
a safety hazard noted by the City Inspector or Police Department, dumpster
permit may be revoked and ordered immediately removed. Dumpsters must be kept
covered while on site so as to prevent debris from blowing from dumpster. No
putrescible materials may be placed in a dumpster. Dumpsters shall, at a
minimum, be marked on all corners by traffic cones or wooden reflective
barricades.
(Ord. 5-2010, passed 5-24-10) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.35 DUMPSTERS LOCATED ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Dumpsters located on private property shall require a dumpster permit from
the City Inspector's office. The fee for a private property temporary dumpster
shall be $25 and shall permit location for an initial period of 30 days, which
said period may be extended for an additional 30-day period at no cost.
Dumpsters must be covered at all times to prevent debris from blowing out. No
putrescible materials may be placed in a dumpster. If dumpster becomes a
nuisance to neighbors or the general public, it may be ordered removed by the
City Inspector or the Police Department.
(Ord. 5-2010, passed 5-24-10) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Should any septic tank waste collected within the city or collected
from outside the city with the implied intention of utilizing the city dumping
station for disposal, be purposely dumped in any part of the city sewer system
or anywhere else within the city limits by a licensed contractor or any other
person other than the designated dumping station at the wastewater treatment
plant as set forth in § 115.01 through 115.06, that party shall be subject to
the following penalty:
      (1)   On the first offense, a $1,000 fine and, if applicable, suspension
of license for six months.
      (2)   On the second offense, a $2,500 fine with one year suspension of
dumping license.
('71 Code, § 118.07) (Ord. 1-90, passed 1-22-90)
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
115.20 through
115.24 shall be fined not more than $2,500 for each violation. Each day's
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Failure to purchase a dumpster permit as required in §§
115.30 et seq., first offense $25, second offense $50, and third and all
subsequent offenses shall constitute the individual or business as an habitual
offender and shall be punishable by a fine of $500 for each offense.
(Ord. 8-93, passed 5-10-93; Am. Ord. 7-2005, passed 6-13-05; Am. Ord. 5-2010,
passed 5-24-10)
CHAPTER 116: SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS; TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
Solicitors and Peddlers
   
116.01   Definition
   
116.02   License required
   
116.03   License fee
   
116.04   Proof of registration; hours of operation
Transient Merchants
   
116.15   Definition
   
116.16   License required
   
116.17   Application for license; certificate to be attached
   
116.18   Investigation of applicant; issuance
   
116.19   Surety bond required
   
116.20   Service of process
   
116.21   Use of public property
   
116.22   Exhibition of license
   
116.23   License fee
   
116.24   Expiration of license
   
116.25   Transference of license
   
116.26   Duty of police to enforce
   
116.27   Records of licenses to be kept
   
116.28   Revocation of license
   
116.29   Appeal
 
   
116.99   Penalty
SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
§ 116.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SOLICITOR and/or PEDDLER.  
      (1)   Any person who engages in the business of a canvasser or solicitor
within the city by calling at private residences for the purpose of soliciting
orders, sales, subscriptions for goods or chattels of any kind, or business of
any kinds, or seeking donations or information.
      (2)   The definition as set out in this section shall not apply to any
person under the age of 18 years who is a student in any school of the county.
('71 Code, § 119.01) (Am. Ord. 12-78, passed 2-27-78)
§ 116.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall act as a solicitor or peddler as defined in this
subchapter without first registering at the Office of the City Clerk-Treasurer
and obtaining a licensed. The registrant shall give his name, residence
address, business address, name of employer, social security number, Indiana
state tax number, nature of the product or services to be offered. the proposed
method of any vehicles to be used and any information additionally required by
the City Clerk-Treasurer or the Chief of the Police Department.
   (B)   Licenses, when issued, shall be nontransferable and shall be issued
for a specific period not to exceed one year.
('71 Code, § 119.02) (Am. Ord. 12-78, passed 2-27-78)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.03 LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for such license as herein provided shall be the sum of $5 for each
person, payable in advance of receipt of the license to the Clerk-Treasurer.
('71 Code, § 119.03) (Am. Ord. 12-78, passed 2-27-78)
§ 116.04 PROOF OF REGISTRATION; HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Each solicitor or peddler shall, at all times when soliciting or
peddling in the city, carry upon his/her person the license issued by the
Clerk-Treasurer and the same shall be exhibited by that registrant whenever he/
she is required to do so by any police officer or requested to do so by any
person solicited.
   (B)   Soliciting or peddling shall be permitted only between the hours of 9:
00 a.m. and sunset.
('71 Code, § 119.04) (Am. Ord. 12-78, passed 2-27-78)
Penalty, see § 116.99
TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
§ 116.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS. A person, firm or corporation whether as owner, agent
consignee or employee, whether a resident of the city or not, who engages in a
temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares and merchandise
within the city, and who, in furtherance of that purpose hires, leases, uses or
occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle, lodging, houses, apartments
shops or any street, alley or other place within the city, for the exhibition
and sale of those goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or at public
auction, and either direct to the general public or by sample for later
delivery thereof. The person, firm or corporation so engaged shall be relieved
from complying with the provisions of this subchapter merely by reason of
associating temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer,
or by conducting the transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in
the name of any local, dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer.
('71 Code, § 123.01) (Ord. 39-82, passed 10-12-82)
§ 116.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for a transient merchant as defined in §
116.15 to engage in such business within the city without first obtaining a
license therefor in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
('71 Code, § 123.02) (Ord. 39-82, passed 10-12-82)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.17 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; CERTIFICATE TO BE ATTACHED.
   (A)   Applicants for license under this subchapter, whether a person, firm
or corporation, shall file a written sworn application signed by the applicant,
if an individual, by all partners of a partnership, and by the president if a
corporation, with the City Clerk-Treasurer, showing:
      (1)   The name and names of the person or persons having the management
or supervision of applicant's business during the time that it is proposed that
it will be carried on in the city; the local address or addresses of that
person or persons while engaged in such business; the permanent address or
addresses of such person or persons; the capacity in which such person or
person will act (that is, whether as proprietor, agent or otherwise); the name
and address the business will be carried on, if any; and if a corporation,
under the laws of what state the same is incorporated;
      (2)   The fingerprints of the person or persons having the management or
supervision of applicant's business or in lieu thereof, at least three letters
of recommendation from reliable property owners in the city certifying as to
the applicant's good character and business responsibility, or other evidence
which establishes to the satisfaction of the Mayor the good character and
business responsibility of that person or persons;
      (3)   The place or places in the city where it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business, and the length of time during which it is proposed that
the business shall be conducted.
      (4)   The place or places, other than the permanent place of business of
the applicant where applicant within the six months next preceding the date of
the application conducted a transient business, stating the nature thereof and
giving the post office and street address of any building or office in which
that business was conducted;
      (5)   A statement of the nature, character and quality of the goods,
wares or merchandise to be sold or offered for sale by applicant in the city,
the invoice value and quality of those goods, wares and merchandise, whether
the same are proposed to be sold from stock in possession or from stock in
possession and by sample; at auction, by direct sale or by direct sale and by
taking orders for future delivery; whether the goods or property proposed to be
sold are manufactured or produced and where those goods or products are located
at the time the application is filed.
      (6)   A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising
done or proposed to be done in order to attract customers, and, if required by
the City Clerk-Treasurer, copies of all advertising whether by handbills,
circular, newspaper advertising, or otherwise, shall be attached to the
application as exhibits thereto.
      (7)   Whether or not the person or persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant's business have been convicted of a crime,
misdemeanor or the violation of any provision of this code or other ordinance
of the city, the nature of the such offense and the punishment assessed
therefor;
      (8)   Credentials from the person, firm or corporation for which the
applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as the
representative; and
      (9)   Any other reasonable information as to the identity or character of
the person or persons having the management or supervision of the applicant's
business or the method or plan of doing such business as the City Clerk-
Treasurer may deem proper to fulfill the purpose of this subchapter in the
protection of the public good.
   (B)   Attached to the application shall be a copy of a valid registered
retail merchant certificate issued to applicant by the Indiana Department of
State Revenue.
   (C)   The application shall be verified.
('71 Code, § 123.03) (Ord. 39-82, passed 10-12-82)
§ 116.18 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; ISSUANCE.
   Upon receipt of such application, the Clerk-Treasurer shall cause an
investigation of that person's or person's business responsibility or moral
character to be made as he deems necessary to the protection of the public
good. If, as a result of the investigation, the applicant's character and
business responsibility are found to be unsatisfactory, the application shall
be denied. If, as a result of the investigation, the character and business
reputation appear to be satisfactory, the Clerk-Treasurer shall so certify in
writing, and a license shall be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall keep a full record in his office of all licenses issued. The
license shall contain the number of the license, the date the same is issued,
the nature of the business authorized to be carried on, the amount of the
license fee paid, the expiration date of the license, the place where the
business may be carried on under the license, and the name or names of the
person or persons authorized to carry on the same.
('71 Code, § 123.04) (Ord. 39-82, passed 10-12-82)
§ 116.19 SURETY BOND REQUIRED.
   Before any license, as provided by this subchapter, shall be issued for
engaging in a transient business as defined in § 116.15 in the city, the
applicant shall file with the Clerk-Treasurer a bond running to the city in the
sum of $1,000 executed by the applicant, as principal, and two sureties upon
which service of process may be made in the state; the bond to be approved by
the City Attorney, conditioned that the applicant shall comply fully with all
the provisions of this code and any other ordinances of the city and the
statutes of the state, regulating and concerning the sale of goods, wares and
merchandise, and will pay all judgements rendered against the applicant for any
violation of this chapter or statutes, or any of them, together with all
judgments and costs that may be recovered against the applicant by any person
or persons for damage growing out of any misrepresentation or deception
practices on any person transacting business with the applicant, whether these
misrepresentations or deceptions were made or practiced by the owners or by
their servants, agents or employees, either at the time of making the sale or
through any advertisement of any character whosoever, printed or circulated
with reference to the goods, wares and merchandise sold or any part thereof.
Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the city to the use of the
aggrieved person. The bond must be approved by the City Attorney, both as to
form, and as to the responsibility of the sureties thereon.
('71 Code, § 123.05) (Ord. 39-82, passed 10-12-82)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.20 SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   Before any license as herein provided shall be issued for engaging in
business as a transient merchant, as defined in §
116.15, in the city, the applicant shall file with the Clerk-Treasurer an
instrument nominating and appointing the Clerk-Treasurer, or the person
performing the duties of that position, his true and lawful agent with full
power and authority to acknowledge service of notice of process for and on
behalf of the applicant in respect to any matters connected with or arising out
of the business transacted under the license and the bond given as required by
§
116.19, or for the performance of the conditions of that bond or for any breach
thereof, which the instrument shall also contain recitals to the effect that
the applicant for the license consents and agrees that service of any notice or
process may be made upon the agent, and when so made shall be taken and held to
be as valid as if personally served upon the person or persons applying for the
license under this subchapter, according to the law of this or any other state,
and waiving all claim or right of error by reason of acknowledgement of service
or manner of service. Immediately upon service of process upon the Clerk-
Treasurer, as herein provided, the Clerk-Treasurer shall send a copy of the
process to the licensee at his known address, by registered mail.
('71 Code, § 123.06) (Ord. 39-82, passed 10-12-82)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.21 USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Before any license as herein provided shall be issued for engaging in
business as a transient merchant, as defined in §
116.15, upon public property, the applicant must obtain permission from the
Board of Public Works and Safety for the use of that property. The Board of
Public Works and Safety may require the applicant to provide proof of bodily
injury and property damage liability insurance in an amount satisfactory to the
Board.
('71 Code, § 123.07) (Ord. 39-82, passed 10-12-82)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.22 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.
   The license issued under this subchapter shall be posted conspicuously in
the place of business named therein. In the event that the person or persons
applying for the license shall desire to do business in more than one place
within the city, separate licenses may be issued for each place of business,
and shall be posted conspicuously in each place of business.
('71 Code, § 123.08) (Ord. 39-82, passed 10-12-82)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.23 LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for such license as herein provided shall be the sum of $100,
payable in advance of receipt of the license to the Clerk-Treasurer.
('71 Code, § 123.09) (Ord. 39-82, passed 10-12-82)
§ 116.24 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   All license issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall expire 90
days after the date of issuance thereof unless a prior date is fixed therein.
('71 Code, § 123.15) (Ord. 39-82, passed 10-12-82)
§ 116.25 TRANSFERENCE OF LICENSE.
   No license shall be transferred without written consent from the Mayor as
evidenced by an endorsement on the face of the license by the Clerk-Treasurer
showing to whom the license is transferred and the date of the transfer.
('71 Code, § 123.10) (Ord. 39-82, passed 10-12-82)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.26 DUTY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE.
   It shall be the duty of the police officers of the city to examine all
places of business and persons in their respective territories subject to the
provisions of this subchapter, to determine if this subchapter has been
complied with and to enforce the provisions of this subchapter against any
person found to be violating the same.
('71 Code, § 123.11) (Ord. 39-82, passed 10-12-82)
§ 116.27 RECORDS OF LICENSES TO BE KEPT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit the record of fingerprints of licensee,
together with a license number, with the Chief of Police; the Chief of Police
shall report to the Clerk-Treasurer any complaints against any person licensed
under the provisions of this subchapter and any conviction for violation of
this subchapter; the Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a record of all licenses and of
those complaints and violations.
('71 Code, § 123.12) (Ord. 39-82, passed 10-12-82)
§ 116.28 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The permits and licenses issued pursuant to this subchapter may be
revoked by the Mayor, after notice and hearing, for any of the following
causes:
      (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      (2)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the selling of goods, wares or merchandise;
      (3)   Any violation of this subchapter;
      (4)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude; or
      (5)   Conducting the business licensed under this subchapter in an
unlawful manner or in a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of hearing of revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. The notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the
licensee, at his last known address, at least five days prior to the date set
for the hearing.
('71 Code, § 123.13) (Ord. 39-82, passed 10-12-82)
§ 116.29 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Clerk-Treasurer in regard to the
denial of application or license as provided for in §
116.18 or in connection with the revocation of a license as provided for in §
116.28, shall have the right to appeal to the Common Council. he appeal shall
be taken by filing with the Council within 14 days after notice of the decision
by the Clerk-Treasurer has been mailed to that person's last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for the appeal. The Council shall
set the time and place for a hearing on the appeal and notice of such hearing
shall be given to that person in the same manner as provided in §
116.28 for notice of hearing on revocation. The order of this Council on the
appeal shall be final.
('71 Code, § 123.14) (Ord. 39-82, passed 10-12-82)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less than
$10 nor more than $2,500. Each day's continued violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
CHAPTER 117: TAXICABS
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   License requirements; certificates of necessity
   
117.03   Application for certificate; fees
   
117.04   Inspections of vehicles
   
117.05   Assignment of license card
   
117.06   Insurance
   
117.07   Taximeters required
   
117.08   Record of trips to be kept
   
117.09   Posting fare schedule
   
117.10   Grandfather clause
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFICATE OF CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY. A finding made by the Board of
Public Works and Safety that a taxicab company service is in the best interest
of the public needs of the city, which results in the issuance of a license to
the applicant for the operation of the taxicab service, by the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
   TAXICAB. A vehicle driven by mechanical power, designed to carry not more
than seven passengers, for public hire within the city.
   TAXICAB COMPANY. A corporation partnership, joint venture, or individual
engaged in the operation of a taxicab for a fee to passengers, under a license
issued by the city.
   TAXIMETER. A mechanical and/or electrical device which records and indicates
a charge of fare measured by the distance traveled, waiting time, if any and
extra passengers, if any.
('71 Code, § 120.01) (Ord. 13-89, passed 6-26-89)
§ 117.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS; CERTIFICATES OF NECESSITY.
   (A)   No person other than those operating a licensed taxicab company as of
the effective date of this chapter, shall operate for hire on the streets of
the city any taxicab without first having obtained a license therefor, as
provided in this title. No license for the operation of any taxicab within the
city shall be granted until the person applying for the license is granted a
certificate of convenience and necessity for the taxicab company by a
resolution duly passed by the Board of Works. In the adoption of such a
resolution, consideration shall be given to the demands of the public as to the
number, kind, type, equipment and traffic conditions on the streets of the
city.
   (B)   The granting or the refusing of a certificate of convenience and
necessity for any taxicab company as herein provided, shall be final and
conclusive. The failure of any person who has obtained a certificate of
convenience and necessity to operate the taxicab for a period of 60 days, shall
be sufficient ground for revoking the certificate of convenience and necessity
for the taxicab. The revoking of any certificate of convenience and necessity
shall be in the same manner as the granting of it.
   (C)   Prior to the transfer of ownership of any taxicab company, the
proposed purchaser. shall submit an application to transfer to the City Clerk
containing all information required in §
117.03 of a new applicant, along with a transfer fee of $100 regardless of the
number of taxicabs being transferred. Within 30 days, the Board of Public Works
and Safety will either approve or deny the requested transfer based upon
consideration of the demands of the public as to the number, kind, type,
equipment, traffic conditions of the streets of the city, and the ability of
the applicant for transfer to meet the transportation needs of the city. Upon
the approval of the transfer of ownership of any taxicab company, the City
Clerk shall, where the transferor requests, validate by appropriate endorsement
upon the license of the existing taxicab company, notice of the transfer of
ownership so designating the new owner.
('71 Code, § 120.02) (Ord. 13-89, passed 6-26-89)
Penalty, see § 117.99
§ 117.03 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE; FEES.
   (A)   All applications for a certificate of convenience and necessity for a
taxicab company shall be made by the owner to the City Clerk-Treasurer. The
application shall contain the full name and address of the owner, the length of
time the proposed vehicle has been in use, the number of persons it is capable
of carrying and the model, year and serial number.
('71 Code, § 120.03)
   (B)   (1)   The application fee for a certificate of convenience and
necessity for a taxicab company shall be in the following amounts:
         (a)   $150 for the first taxicab owned and proposed to be operated by
a taxicab company; and
         (b)   $50 for each subsequent taxicab owned and proposed to be
operated by a taxicab company.
      (2)   This application fee shall be paid to the City Clerk-Treasurer with
the filing of the application and shall be held by the City Clerk-Treasurer
pending final action by the Board of Public Works and Safety. If the
application for the taxicab company is approved by the Board, then and in that
event, the application fee shall be the first years' annual license fee for
that application.
      (3)   Each taxicab company holding a certificate of convenience and
necessity following the first year shall annually pay a license fee to the City
Clerk-Treasurer as follows
         (a)   $150 annual license fee for the first taxicab owned and operated
by a taxicab company; and
         (b)   $50 annual license fee for each subsequent taxicab owned and
operated by each taxicab company.
('71 Code, § 120.06(C))
(Ord. 13-89, passed 6-26-89)
§ 117.04 INSPECTIONS OF VEHICLES.
   No taxicab company shall be licensed, in any year, until the taxicabs,prior
to being placed in service in their initial year, have been thoroughly and
carefully inspected and examined, and annually thereafter, reinspected and
examined on or within 30 days prior to December 31 of each calendar year. The
cost of each such taxicab inspection is to be paid by the taxicab company.
Within 30 days prior to the performance of the required annual reinspection and
examination, the taxicab company shall submit the names and addresses and
telephone numbers of three qualified mechanics who the taxicab company proposes
to perform the required work. The Board of Public Works and Safety will select
and approve a mechanic from the submitted list or, if the Board of Works finds
no qualified mechanics among the names submitted, shall designate an approved
mechanic from other than the three names submitted, whose principal place of
business is located within the city. This approved mechanic as so designated
shall be authorized to perform all inspections and examinations on behalf of
the particular cab company unless the Board informs the taxicab company
otherwise. The approved mechanic shall make the inspections and shall state in
writing to the City Clerk-Treasurer the results of the inspections. In order
for any vehicle to be used as a taxicab, it must be found to be in a thoroughly
safe condition and shall meet the minimum standards required for all passenger
cars under laws, rules, and regulations of the state or federal government.
('71 Code, § 120.03(B)) (Ord. 13-89, passed 6-26-89)
Penalty, see § 117.99
§ 117.05 ASSIGNMENT OF LICENSE CARD.
   If on inspection the taxicab is found to be of lawful construction and in
proper condition in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and upon
payment of the fees set forth in §
117.03(B) when so licensed there shall be delivered to the owner, ln addition
to the license, a card of the size and form prescribed by the City Clerk-
Treasurer. This card shall contain the official city license number of the
taxicab company and a vehicle number for that particular taxicab, together with
the date of inspection of the taxicab, and a statement to the effect that in
case of any complaint the Police Department shall be notified, giving both the
state license and vehicle ID numbers. The card shall be signed by the City
Clerk-Treasurer and shall contain blank spaces on which an entry may be made of
the date of every inspection of the vehicle by the Inspector designated. The
license card shall be of distinctly different color each year and shall contain
the same of the person owning the taxicab and the state license numbers issued
therefore. On the payment of $2.50 to the City Clerk-Treasurer and furnishing
proof by affidavit of the loss or destruction of the license or the card, a
duplicate thereof shall immediately be issued to the licensee with the notation
thereon that it is a duplicate.
('71 Code, § 120.02) (Ord. 13-89, passed 6-26-89)
§ 117.06 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Before the City Clerk shall issue a license to operate a taxicab
company for hire, the licensee shall file with the City Clerk-Treasurer
certificate executed by a duly authorized officer of an insurance insurance
company authorized to write insurance in the state, to the effect that a policy
of insurance has been issued to the licensee for the taxicab and is in full
force and effect and that the premium has been paid as required thereon,
together with a true copy of the policy contract or certificate of insurance.
The policy of insurance for each licensed taxicab shall be in the sum of at
least $100,000 for each occurrence of loss. The licensee shall not operate the
taxicab or taxicabs until the insurance has been obtained and certificates
furnished as herein required.
   (B)   Any insurance company whose policy has been so filed pursuant to this
section, may file a notice in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer of its
intention to terminate and cancel the policy of insurance and give notice
thereof to the named licensee, after ten days of the filing unless the licensee
or owner complies with the provisions of this chapter with respect to
insurance, the licensee shall cease to operate or cause to be operated within
the city the taxicab for hire. The license issued therefor shall be
automatically revoked. However, the liability of the insurance company under
the canceled or revoked policy for any act or omission of the licensee or owner
occurring prior to the effective date of cancellation shall not be discharged
or impaired thereby.
('71 Code, § 120.04) (Ord. 13-89, passed 6-26-89; Am. Ord. 17-96, passed 6-25-
96)
§ 117.07 TAXIMETERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every taxicab operated no later than December 31, 1987, under a
certificate of convenience and necessity in the city shall be equipped with a
taximeter of a make, construction and operation satisfactory to the Board of
Public Works and Safety. In addition to other requirements prescribed by the
Board, the taximeter shall have lighted in plain view to passengers, a dial
whereon shall be registered the fare for each trip in accordance with the rates
established in this chapter.
   (B)   No person, except in the repair thereof, shall tamper with, break, or
mutilate any taximeter or the seal thereof, with the purpose of causing the
taximeter to register any fare incorrectly, or for any other purpose
whatsoever. No taxicab on which the seal of the taximeter has been broken shall
be operated in the city until the taximeter is reinspected by the Inspector of
Weights and Measures and revealed. No person shall operate any taxicab with a
taximeter without it being sealed in compliance with this chapter.
('71 Code, § 120.05) (Ord. 13-89, passed 6-26-89)
Penalty, see § 117.99
§ 117.08 RECORD OF TRIPS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   Every holder of a certificate of convenience and necessity, as
provided for in this chapter, for the operation of taxicabs in the city, shall
keep an accurate record of all trips made by all the taxicabs operated under
the certificate. This record shall be made by the operator and driver of a
taxicab and shall show the point of origin and destination of all trips and the
number of passengers carried.
   (B)   The records shall be open to inspection by the Board of Public Works
and Safety or any of its duly authorized representatives; however, it shall be
necessary to preserve the records of any trip for a minimum of one year after
the date the trip was made.
('71 Code, § 120.06) (Ord. 13-89, passed 6-26-89)
Penalty, see § 117.99
§ 117.09 POSTING FARE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Each taxicab shall have posted in a manner approved by the Board of
Public Works and Safety and in a conspicuous place in letters of legible size a
schedule of fares. No operator or driver of any taxicab shall demand or collect
a different charge for taxicab service than those posted.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation holding a certificate of convenience or
necessity shall permit any taxicab to be operated within the city wherein the
fare is not posted as required therein, and no person shall operate a taxicab
within the city, for hire, in which the fare is not conspicuously posted as
required.
   (C)   No person shall refuse to pay the fare established this chapter if the
fare is posted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter after engaging the
services of the taxicab.
   (D)   No operator of driver of any taxicab shall demand or collect a
different charge for taxicab service other than the fare posted.
('71 Code, § 120.07) (Ord. 13-89, passed 6-26-89)
Penalty, see § 117.99
§ 117.10 GRANDFATHER CLAUSE.
   Any person, firm or corporation holding a certificate of convenience and
necessity under this chapter for the operation of taxicabs who hold a
certificate as of the effective date of this chapter as amended by the Common
Council shall for all intents and purposes be granted a certificate of
convenience and necessity for any taxicab company in operation on that date in
compliance with all the provision of this chapter as same read following the
passage of this chapter. An existing taxicab company shall come into compliance
with the new terms and provisions applying pursuant to this chapter within a
period of 120 days after the passage of this act, or, upon action of the Board
of Public Works and Safety the certificate of convenience and necessity may be
revoked.
('71 Code, § 120.08) (Ord. 13-89, passed 6-26-89)
Penalty, see § 117.99
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be subject to the penalties as defined in the Indiana Code as a Class C
infraction of this chapter and shall comply with the provision of the Indiana
Code.
('71 Code, § 120.09) (Ord. 13-89, passed 6-26-89)
CHAPTER 118: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
118.01   Purpose and findings
   
118.02   Classification
   
118.03   License required
   
118.04   Issuance of license
   
118.05   Fees
   
118.06   Expiration of license
   
118.07   Suspension
   
118.08   Revocation
   
118.09   Judicial review
   
118.10   No transfer of license
   
118.11   Location restrictions
   
118.12   Exterior portions of sexually oriented businesses
   
118.13   Signage
   
118.14   Sale, use, or consumption of alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
118.15   Persons younger than 18 prohibited from entry; attendant required
   
118.16   Massages or baths administered by person of opposite sex
   
118.17   Hours of operation
   
118.18   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films and
videos
   
118.19   Notices
   
118.20   Injunction
   
118.21   Separability
   
118.22   Conflicting ordinances repealed
   
118.23   Effective date
§ 118.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented businesses
and related activities to promote the health, safety, morals, and general
welfare of the citizens of the City, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious location and concentration of sexually
oriented businesses within the City. The provisions of this chapter have
neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the
content of any communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials.
Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny
access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the First
Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually
oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent nor
effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene
materials.
(Ord. 14-99, passed 5-24-99)
§ 118.02 CLASSIFICATION.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstores or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult theaters;
   (G)   Escort agencies;
   (H)   Nude model studios; and
   (I)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Ord. 14-99, passed 5-24-99)
§ 118.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful:
      (1)   For any person to operate a sexually oriented business without a
valid sexually oriented business license issued by the Building Inspector
pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   For any person who operates a sexually oriented business to employ
a person to work for the sexually oriented business who is not licensed as a
sexually oriented business employee by the Building Inspector pursuant to this
chapter.
      (3)   For any person to obtain employment with a sexually oriented
business without having secured a sexually oriented business employee license
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   An application for a sexually oriented business license must be made
on a form provided by the city. The application must be accompanied by a sketch
or a diagram showing the configuration of the premises, including a statement
of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not
be professionally prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn
with marked dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus
or minus six inches.
   (C)   All applicants for a license must be qualified according to the
provisions of this chapter. The application may request, and the applicant
shall provide, such information (including fingerprints) as to enable the City
to determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications established under
this chapter. The applicant has an affirmative duty to supplement an
application with new information received subsequent to the date the
application was deemed completed.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to own/operate a sexually oriented business is
an individual, he must sign the application for a business license as
applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
other than an individual, each individual who has a 10% or greater interest in
the business must sign the application for a business license as applicant. If
a corporation is listed as owner of a sexually oriented business or as the
entity that wishes to operate such a business, each individual having a 10% or
greater interest in the corporation must sign the application for a business
license as applicant.
   (E)   Applications for a business license, whether original or renewal, must
be made to the Building Inspector by the intended operator of the enterprise.
Applications must be submitted to the office of the Building Inspector or the
Building Inspector's designee during regular working hours. Application forms
shall be supplied by the Building Inspector.
   (F)   Applications for an employee license to work and/or perform services
in a sexually oriented business, whether original or renewal, must be made to
the Building Inspector by the person to whom the employee license shall issue.
Each application for an employee license shall be accompanied by payment of the
application fee in full. Application forms shall be supplied by the Building
Inspector. Applications must be submitted to the office of the Building
Commissioner or the Building Inspector's designee during regular working hours.
   (G)   Every application for a license shall contain a statement under oath
that:
      (1)   The applicant has personal knowledge of the information contained
in the application, and that the information contained therein and furnished
therewith is true and correct; and,
      (2)   The applicant has read the provisions of this section.
   (H)   A separate application and business license shall be required for each
sexually oriented business classification as set forth in §
118.02.
   (I)   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or city permits
and/or licenses does not exempt him from the requirement of obtaining a
sexually oriented business or employee license.
(Ord. 14-99, passed 5-24-99)
§ 118.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of an application for a sexually oriented business
employee license, the Building Inspector shall issue a temporary license to the
applicant. The application shall then be referred to the appropriate city
departments for investigation to be made on the information contained in the
application. The application process shall be completed within 30 days from the
date of the completed application. After the investigation, the Building
Inspector shall issue an employee license, unless it is determined by a
preponderance of the evidence that one or more of the following findings is
true.
      (1)   The applicant has failed to provide the information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
      (2)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal
activity";
      (4)   The sexually oriented business employee license is to be used for
employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule, or
regulation, or prohibited by a particular provision of this chapter; or
      (5)   The applicant has had a sexually oriented business employee license
revoked by the City within two years of the date of the current application.
   If the sexually oriented business employee license is denied, the temporary
license previously issued is immediately deemed null and void. Denial,
suspension, or revocation of a license issued pursuant to this subsection shall
be subject to appeal as forth in subsection (1) of this Section.
   (B)   A license issued pursuant to division (A) of this section, if granted,
shall state on its face the name of the person to whom it is granted, the
expiration date, and the address of the sexually oriented business. The
employee shall keep the license on his or her person at all times while engaged
in employment or performing services on the sexually oriented business premises
so that said license may be available for inspection upon lawful request.
   (C)   A license issued pursuant to division (A) of this Section shall be
subject to annual renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a
finding by the Building Inspector that the applicant has not been convicted of
any "specified criminal activity" as defined in this chapter, or committed any
act during the existence of the previous license which would be grounds to deny
the initial license application. The decision whether to renew a license shall
be made within 30 days of the completed application. The renewal of a license
shall be subject to the fee as set forth in §
118.05. Nonrenewal of a license shall be subject to appeal as set forth in
division (I) of this section.
   (D)   If application is made for a sexually oriented business license, the
Building Inspector shall approve or deny issuance of the license within 45 days
of receipt of the completed application. The Building Inspector shall issue a
license to an applicant unless it is determined by a preponderance of the
evidence, at one or more of the findings is true.
   (E)   A license issued pursuant to division (D) of this Section, if granted,
shall state on its face the name of the person or persons to whom it is
granted, the expiration date, the address of the sexually oriented business,
and the §
118.02 classification for which the license is issued. The license shall be
posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented
business so that it may be easily read at any time.
   (F)   The health department, fire department, building department and zoning
department shall complete their certification that the premises are in
compliance or not in compliance within 20 days of receipt of the completed
application by the Building Inspector. The certification shall be promptly
presented to the Building Inspector.
   (G)   A sexually oriented business license shall issue for only one
classification, as set forth in §
118.02.
   (H)   In the event that the Building Inspector determines that an applicant
is not eligible for a sexually oriented business license, the applicant shall
be given notice in writing of the reasons for the denial within 45 days of the
receipt of the completed application by the Building Inspector, provided that
the applicant may request, in writing at any time before the notice is issued,
that such period be extended for an additional period of not more than ten days
in order to make modifications necessary to comply with this chapter.
   (I)   An applicant may appeal the decision of the Building Inspector
regarding a denial to the Common Council of the City of Vincennes by filing a
written notice of appeal with the city attorney within 15 days after service of
notice upon the applicant of the Building Inspector's decision. The notice of
appeal shall be accompanied by a memorandum or other, writing setting out fully
the grounds for such appeal and all arguments in support thereof the Building
Inspector may, within 15 days of service upon him of the applicant's
memorandum, submit a memorandum in response to the memorandum filed by the
applicant on appeal to the Common Council of the City of Vincennes. After
reviewing such memoranda, as well as the Building Inspector's written decision,
if any, and exhibits submitted to the Building Inspector, the Common Council of
the City of Vincennes shall vote either to uphold or overrule the Building
Inspector's decision. Such vote all be taken within 21 calendar days after the
date on which the city attorney receives the notice of appeal. However, all
parties shall be required to comply with the Building Inspector's decision
during the pendency of the appeal. Judicial review of a denial by the Building
Inspector and the Common Council of the City of Vincennes may be made pursuant
to §
118.10 of this chapter.
   (J)   A license issued pursuant to division (D) of this section shall be
subject to annual renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a
finding by the Building Inspector that the applicant has not been convicted of
any "specified criminal activity" as defined in this chapter; or committed any
act during the existence of the previous license which would be grounds to deny
the initial license application. The decision whether to renew a license shall
be made within 45 days of the completed application. The renewal of a license
shall be subject to the fee as set forth in §
118.05.
(Ord. 14-99, passed 5-24-99)
§ 118.05 FEES.
   The annual fee for a sexually oriented business license, whether new or
renewal, is $5,000. The annual fee for a sexually oriented business employee
license, whether new or renewal, is $500. These fees are to be used to pay for
the cost of the administration and enforcement of this chapter
(Ord. 14-99, passed 5-24-99)
§ 118.06 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall expire one year from, the date of issuance and may
be renewed only by making application as provided in § 118.05. Application for
renewal should be made at least 45 days before the expiration date. When
application is made less than 45 days before the expiration date, the
expiration of the license will not be affected.
   (B)   When the Building Inspector denies renewal of a license, the applicant
shall not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial.
(Ord. 14-99, passed 5-24-99)
§ 118.07 SUSPENSION.
   The Building Inspector shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30
days if he determines that licensee or an employee of licensee has:
   (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
   (B)   Operated or performed services in a sexually oriented business while
intoxicated by the use of alcoholic beverages or controlled substances;
   (C)   Refused to allow prompt inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;
   (D)   With knowledge, permitted gambling by any person on the sexually
oriented business premises.
(Ord. 14-99, passed 5-24-99)
§ 118.08 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension
in § 118.07 occurs and the license has been suspended within the proceeding 12
months.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall revoke a license if he determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee, or a person with whom the licensee is residing, was
convicted of "specified criminal activity" on a charge that was pending, prior
to the issuance of the license;
      (3)   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted the possession, use, or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted the sale, use, or
consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises;
      (5)   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted prostitution on the
premises;
      (6)   A licensee has, with knowledge, operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
      (7)   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or other sexual conduct to
occur in or on the licensed premises;
      (8)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city or state for any
taxes or fees;
      (9)   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted a person under 18 years
of age to enter the establishment; or
      (10)    A licensee has attempted to sell his business license, or has
sold, assigned, or transferred ownership or control of the sexually oriented
business to a non-licensee of the establishment;
      (11)    A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted a person or persons to
engage in specified sexual activities on the premises of the sexually oriented
business.
   (C)   When the Building Inspector revokes a license, the revocation shall
continue for one year, and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented
business license for one year from the date revocation became effective.
(Ord. 14-99, passed 5-24-99)
§ 118.09 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   After denial of an initial or renewal application by the Building Inspector
and the Common Council of the City of Vincennes, or suspension or revocation of
a license by the Building Inspector, the applicant or licensee may seek prompt
judicial review of such administrative action in any court of competent
jurisdiction. The administrative action shall be promptly reviewed by the
court.
(Ord. 14-99, passed 5-24-99)
§ 118.10 NO TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his/her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 14-99, passed 5-24-99)
§ 118.11 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   Sexually oriented businesses shall be permitted in any industrial district
provided that:
   (A)   The sexually oriented business may not be operated within:
      (1)   1,000 feet of a church, synagogue or regular place of religious
worship;
      (2)   1,000 feet of a public or private elementary or secondary school;
      (3)   500 feet of a boundary of any residential district;
      (4)   500 feet of a public park;
      (5)   500 feet of a licensed day-care facility with nine or more
children;
      (6)   1,000 feet of an entertainment business that is oriented primarily
towards children or family entertainment; or
      (7)   1,000 feet of another sexually oriented business.
   (B)   A sexually oriented business may not be operated in the same building,
structure, or portion thereof, containing another sexually oriented business
that is classified in accordance with §
118.02.
   (C)   For the purpose of this chapter, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises
where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line
of the premises of a church, synagogue, regular place of worship, or public or
private elementary or secondary school, or to the nearest boundary of an
affected public park, residential district, or residential lot, or licensed day
care center, or child or family entertainment business.
   (D)   For purposes of division (C) of this section, the distance between any
two sexually oriented business uses shall be measured in a straight line,
without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the closest exterior
wall of the structure in which each business is located.
(Ord. 14-99, passed 5-24-99)
§ 118.12 EXTERIOR PORTIONS OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the merchandise or activities of the establishment to be
visible from a point outside the establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the exterior portion of the sexually oriented business to
have flashing lights, or any words, lettering, photographs, silhouettes,
drawings, or pictorial representations of any manner except to the extent
permitted by the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow exterior portions of the establishment to be painted any
color other than a single achromatic color. This provision shall not apply to a
sexually oriented business if the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The establishment is a part of a commercial multi-unit center; and
      (2)   The exterior portions of each individual unit in the commercial
multi-unit center, including the exterior portions of the business, are painted
the same color as one another or are painted in such a way so as to be a
component of the overall architectural style or pattern of the commercial
multi-unit center.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require the painting of
an otherwise unpainted exterior portion of a sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 14-99, passed 5-24-99)
§ 118.13 SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other city ordinance, code, or regulation to the
contrary, it shall be unlawful for the operator of any sexually oriented
business or any other person to erect, construct, or maintain any sign for the
sexually oriented business other than the one primary sign and one secondary
sign, as provided herein.
   (B)   Primary signs shall have no more than two display surfaces. Each such
display surface shall:
      (1)   Not contain any flashing lights;
      (2)   Be a flat plane, rectangular in shape;
      (3)   Not exceed 75 square feet in area; and
      (4)   Not exceed ten feet in height or ten feet in length.
   (C)   Primary signs shall contain no photographs, silhouettes, drawings or
pictorial representations in any manner, and may contain only the name of the
enterprise.
   (D)   Each letter forming a word on a primary sign shall be of solid color,
and each such letter shall be the same print-type, size and color. The
background behind such lettering on the display surface of a primary sign shall
be of a uniform and solid color.
   (E)   Secondary signs shall have only one display surface. Such display
surface shall:
      (1)   Be a flat plane, rectangular in shape;
      (2)   Not exceed 20 square feet in area;
      (3)   Not exceed five feet in height and four feet width; and
      (4)   Be affixed or attached to any wall or door of the enterprise.
   (F)   The provisions of subsection (1) of division (B) and division (C) and
(D) shall also apply to secondary signs.
(Ord. 14-99, passed 5-24-99)
§ 118.14 SALE, USE, OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   The sale, use, or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises of a
sexually oriented business is prohibited.
(Ord. 14-99, passed 5-24-99)
§ 118.15 PERSONS YOUNGER THAN 18 PROHIBITED FROM ENTRY; ATTENDANT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to allow a person who is younger than 18 years of
age to enter or be on the premises of a sexually oriented business at any time
the sexually oriented business is open for business.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the operator of each sexually oriented
business to ensure that an attendant is stationed at each public entrance to
the sexually oriented business at all times during such sexually oriented
business' regular business hours. It shall be the duty of the attendant to
prohibit any person under the age of 18 years from entering the sexually
oriented business. It shall be presumed that an attendant knew a person was
under the age of 18 unless such attendant asked for and was furnished:
      (1)   A valid operator's, commercial operator's, or chauffeur's driver's
license; or
      (2)   A valid personal identification certificate issued by the State of
Indiana reflecting that such person is 18 years of age or older.
(Ord. 14-99, passed 5-24-99)
§ 118.16 MASSAGES OR BATHS ADMINISTERED BY PERSON OF OPPOSITE SEX.
   It shall be unlawful for any sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether in a public or private facility, to operate as a massage salon, massage
parlor or any similar type business where any physical contact with the
recipient of such services is provided by a person of the opposite sex.
(Ord. 14-99, passed 5-24-99)
§ 118.17 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on weekdays and
Saturdays, and 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. 14-99, passed 5-24-99)
§ 118.18 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS AND
VIDEOS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette, or other video reproduction, that depicts specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager's stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the business license will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A
professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's
blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to
the north or to some designated street or object and should be drawn to a
designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various
internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy
of plus or minus six inches. The Building Inspector may waive the foregoing
diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was
previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has
not been altered since said diagram was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the Building Inspector or his
designee.
      (4)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of the entire area
of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose,
excluding restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If
the premises has two or more manager's stations designated, then the interior
of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of the entire area of the premises to which any patron is
permitted access for any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations.
The view required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the
manager's station.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty
of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that the view
area specified in subsection (5) of this section remains unobstructed at all
times. No doors, walls, partitions, curtains, merchandise, display racks, or
other object(s) shall obstruct from view of the manager's station any portion
of the premises to which patrons have access. It shall be the duty of the
operator, and it shall also be the duty of any agents and employees present in
the premises, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the
premises that has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted, as designated in the application filed pursuant to subsection (1) of
this section.
      (7)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five foot-candle as measured at the
floor level.
      (8)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty
of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      (9)   No viewing room or booth may be occupied by more than one person at
any time.
      (10)    No opening of any kind shall exist between viewing rooms or
booths.
      (11)    It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the
duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that no
more than one person at a time occupies viewing booths or rooms, and to ensure
that no person attempts to make an opening of any kind between the viewing
booths or rooms.
      (12)    The operator of the sexually oriented business shall, each
business day, inspect the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any
openings or holes exist.
      (13)    The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all
floor coverings in viewing booths to be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces,
with no rugs or carpeting.
      (14)    The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all
wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of, or
permanently covered by, nonporous, easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood,
composition board or other porous material shall be used within 48 inches of
the floor.
(Ord. 14-99, passed 5-24-99)
§ 118.19 NOTICES.
   (A)   Any notice required or permitted to be given by the Building Inspector
or any other city office, division, department or other agency under this
chapter to any applicant, operator or owner of a sexually oriented business may
be given either by personal delivery or by certified United States mail,
postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the most recent address
as specified in the application for the license, or any notice of address
change that has been received by the Building Inspector. Notices mailed as
above shall be deemed given upon their deposit in the United States mail. In
the event that any notice given by mail is returned by the postal service, the
Building Inspector or his designee shall cause it to be posted at the principal
entrance to the establishment.
   (B)   Any notice required or permitted to be given to the Building Inspector
by any person under this chapter shall not be deemed given until and unless it
is received in the office of the Building Inspector.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of each owner who is designated on the license
application and each operator to furnish notice to the Building Inspector in
writing of any change of residence or mailing address.
(Ord. 14-99, passed 5-24-99)
§ 118.20 INJUNCTION.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without a valid business license, or in violation of this chapter, is subject
to a suit for injunction as well as prosecution or ordinance violations. Each
day a sexually oriented business so operates is a separate offense or violation
and shall carry a civil penalty not to exceed $2,500 per offense or violation.
(Ord. 14-99, passed 5-24-99)
§ 118.21 SEPARABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, or clause of this chapter shall be deemed to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, the validity of the remaining sections,
subsections, and clauses shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 14-99, passed 5-24-99)
§ 118.22 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the provisions of
this chapter are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 14-99, passed 5-24-99)
§ 118.23 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Two copies of this chapter together with all exhibits shall be on file in
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, the Mayor, and the Building Inspector for
public inspection. The ordinance will be published by insertion into the
Vincennes Sun Commercial pursuant to I.C. 36-4-6-14(c). The ordinance shall
take effect two weeks after the publication/insertion of the ordinance in the
Code.
(Ord. 14-99, passed 5-24-99)
CHAPTER 119: FOOD VENDING VEHICLES
Section
   
119.01   Stopping for the purpose of selling in certain places and at certain
times prohibited
   
119.02   Permitted locations
   
119.03   Limitation on loudness of loudspeakers and bells used for advertising
   
119.04   Parking restrictions
   
119.05   Required permits and licenses
   
119.06   Unlawful to use audible advertising while vehicle is in motion
   
119.07   Unlawful to stop for purpose of selling without proper equipment in
operation
   
119.08   Unlawful to pass stopped vending vehicle
   
119.09   Vending from other than curb side prohibited
§ 119.01 STOPPING FOR THE PURPOSE OF SELLING IN CERTAIN PLACES AND AT CERTAIN
TIMES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Time restriction generally. It shall be unlawful to engage in selling
or offering for sale any food or other products from and at a motor vehicle
between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   Upon thoroughfares and state highways. It shall be unlawful for the
driver or operator of any motor vehicle to stop said vehicle for the purpose of
selling or offering for sale any food or other products, or to sell or offer
for sale such merchandise, while stopped, to the general public at said vehicle
upon any public roadway in Vincennes, Indiana, which is then a part of the
official thoroughfare plan of said city.
   (C)   In vicinity of any grade or junior high school during certain hours.
It shall be unlawful for the driver or operator of any motor vehicle to stop
said vehicle for the purpose of selling or offering for sale any food or other
products or to sell or offer for sale such merchandise at said vehicle while
stopped, or to use any loudspeaker, bell or other device giving an audible
signal to advertise such merchandise, within a distance of 500 feet of any real
estate which is then used as part of the school grounds of any duly accredited
public or private grade or junior high school between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 4:00 p.m. on days when said schools are in session.
(Ord. 12-2018, passed 8-13-18)
§ 119.02 PERMITTED LOCATIONS.
   Selling is permitted at such times and locations with special approval of
the Vincennes Board of Works and Public Safety upon application. Selling is
permitted upon private property with permission of the owner of the private
property.
(Ord. 12-2018, passed 8-13-18)
§ 119.03 LIMITATION ON LOUDNESS OF LOUDSPEAKERS AND BELLS USED FOR ADVERTISING.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or operator of any motor vehicle to use
more than one loudspeaker, bell or other device, and said loudspeaker, bell or
other device shall not have the capability or capacity to emit a signal louder
than 100 decibels at full volume, measured at any distance from said device,
for the purpose of advertising to the general public the food, product or
presence of the vehicle.
(Ord. 12-2018, passed 8-13-18)
§ 119.04 PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Mobile food vendors can park on city streets as long as they follow
all city parking restrictions and ordinances, including payment of parking
meters, if present.
   (B)   They may not park:
      (1)   Within 50 feet of any facade or outdoor seating of a ground level
establishment that also sells food or beverages (this only applies from an hour
before the establishment's opening to an hour after closing);
      (2)   Within 50 feet of any event area in which vendors pay a fee in
support of the event;
      (3)   In alleyways;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   More than one foot from the curb; and
      (6)   Within 15 feet of an intersection or blocking other drivers’ line
of sight.
(Ord. 12-2018, passed 8-13-18)
§ 119.05 REQUIRED PERMITS AND LICENSES.
   (A)   Current Indiana business license;
   (B)   Current Knox County Health Inspection;
   (C)   Approval from the Board of Works if you wish to operate in the public
right-of-way;
   (D)   Proof of independent safety inspection of all vehicles used in the
business; and
   (E)   Proof of indemnity insurance.
(Ord. 12-2018, passed 8-13-18)
§ 119.06 UNLAWFUL TO USE AUDIBLE ADVERTISING WHILE VEHICLE IS IN MOTION.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or operator of any motor vehicle from
and at which food or other products are being sold to use any loudspeaker, bell
or other device giving an audible signal to advertise said products or the
presence of the vehicle while the vehicle is in motion.
(Ord. 12-2018, passed 8-13-18)
§ 119.07 UNLAWFUL TO STOP FOR PURPOSE OF SELLING WITHOUT PROPER EQUIPMENT IN
OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or operator of any motor vehicle to stop
said vehicle for the purpose of selling or offering for sale at said vehicle
any food products without having the following equipment mounted on the vehicle
and in operation during the period of selling said products:
   (A)   A metal, horizontally extendible sign at least 20 inches in length and
at least ten inches in height imprinted with the words “STOP” in six-inch,
black, block letters on a yellow background and “PROCEED WITH CAUTION” in two-
inch, black, block letters on a yellow background, such arm to be lighted at
die street end of said arm with two alternately flashing red lights two inches
in diameter, clearly visible from both front and rear at a distance of at least
300 feet, the bottom of said sign to be at a height of five feet above the
level of the street or way.
   (B)   Two alternately flashing red lights not less than four inches in
diameter, placed one above the other on the street side of the front end of the
vehicle, when legally parked, not more than one foot apart, the lower of which
shall be approximately four feet from the surface of the street or way, and
clearly visible from not less than 300 feet from the front of said vehicle.
(Ord. 12-2018, passed 8-13-18)
§ 119.08 UNLAWFUL TO PASS STOPPED VENDING VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any motorist, when approaching a parked food
vending vehicle from any direction at a time when such vehicle is displaying
the metal, extendible arm and the flashing lights as provided for in §
119.07 above, to fail to come to a complete stop at least ten feet from the
closest end of said vehicle or to fail to then proceed with caution to pass
said vehicle.
(Ord. 12-2018, passed 8-13-18)
§ 119.09 VENDING FROM OTHER THAN CURB SIDE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale any food or other products
from a vehicle unless said vehicle is legally parked or to sell or offer for
sale from other than the curb side of a legally parked food vending vehicle.
(Ord. 12-2018, passed 8-13-18)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST CITY REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST CITY REGULATIONS
Section
Offenses Against Property
   
130.01   Destruction of public property
Offenses Against Public Peace and Safety
   
130.15   [Reserved]
   
130.16   Obedience during civil defense tests or emergency
   
130.17   Partitions and barbed wire fences
   
130.18   Discharge of air guns, bows and sling shots within city
   
130.19   Turning in false fire alarms
Drug Offenses
   130.25   Synthetic cannabinoids; sale and use
 
   
130.99   Penalty
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
§ 130.01 DESTRUCTION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Definition.  For the purposes of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY shall
include the public lighting system in the city, whether upon the streets or in
the parks or cemeteries of the city. It shall also include all monuments,
markers, signs, trees, shrubs, flowers, lawns, buildings, structures, plumbing
fixtures and any other property of any kind whatsoever belonging to, installed
by or maintained by the general public by taxation through any of its different
agencies of government, whether city, township, county, state or national.
   (B)   No person shall injure, deface, disfigure, displace, mar, break or
destroy, or attempt to injure, deface, disfigure, displace, mar, break or
destroy any public property in the city of any kind whatsoever, whether such
property is owned by the city, the Board of Education, Vincennes Township, Knox
County, the State of Indiana or the United States government.
('71 Code, § 96.01)
Penalty, see § 130.99
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
§ 130.15 [RESERVED]
§ 130.16 OBEDIENCE DURING CIVIL DEFENSE TESTS OR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, a TEST or DRILL shall
mean any test or drill which has been duly called by the national or state
civil defense departments, but in no event shall include a test or drill called
by local authorities.
   (B)   During a civil defense emergency, or a duly authorized civil defense
test or drill, no person shall violate or disobey any duly promulgated
regulation or order during that emergency, test of drill or willfully violate
or disobey any official order by a duly authorized person concerning the
conduct of civilians, the movement and cessation of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic or the taking of shelter in designated shelter areas.
('71 Code, § 98.04)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.17 PARTITIONS AND BARBED WIRE FENCES.
   (A)   The building and maintaining of partition fences between lots within
the city is a common nuisance and is dangerous to individuals, particularly
children, and the same is prohibited.
('71 Code, § 95.01)
   (B)   No property owner or any person who has the control and management of
any property within the city shall build, erect or maintain a barbed wire fence
on any city lot.
('71 Code, § 95.02)
   (C)   The Chief of Police or the City Inspector is authorized and directed
to serve a written notice on any person now having and maintaining a barbed
wire fence on city lots to remove the same within ten days from the service of
that notice.
('71 Code, § 95.03)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.18 DISCHARGE OF AIR GUNS, BOWS AND SLING SHOTS WITHIN CITY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   AIR GUN. Any gun or device, by whatever name know, which is designed to
expel or propel a projectile, pellet or missile, leaden or otherwise, by the
action of compressed air or gas, or by the action of a spring or elastic, but
does not mean a firearm.
   BOWS. Any device, by whatever name know, which is designed to support any
missile or arrow and which hurls, throws or flings the same by the expanding or
flexing of any part of the apparatus, but does not mean a firearm.
   SLING SHOT. Any device, by whatever name known, which is designed to support
stones, pellets or missiles, and by hand, hurling, throwing, and flinging the
same by stretching and releasing elastic bands, but does not mean a firearm.
('71 Code, § 98.05)
   (B)   No person, regardless of age, shall shoot within the city any gun
commonly known as an air gun or any type of mechanical gun that shoots, expels
or propels pellets, missiles or projectiles, leaden or otherwise, and no person
shall hurl or fling missiles, pellets or stones by means of a sling shot or
bow.
('71 Code, § 98.06)
   (C)   No person under the age of 16 years shall carry any air gun, sling
shot or bow on the streets, alleys, public roads or public places within the
city unless accompanied by an adult, parent or guardian. Any violation of this
division by a child under the age of 16 years shall be considered an act of
delinquency on the part of that child, in which case the Chief of Police shall
report the case to the juvenile court.
('71 Code, § 98.07)
(Ord. 37-58, passed 7-10-78)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.19 TURNING IN FALSE FIRE ALARMS.
   No person shall open any of the signal boxes connected with the fire alarm
system of the city for the purpose of knowingly giving a false alarm; or break
any glass key-box or tamper, meddle or interfere in any way with those boxes,
or any part thereof, by cutting, breaking, injuring or defacing the same; or
cut, break or injure in any way the wires or their support; or connect the same
by any means so as to prevent the proper working of the system or with intent
to do so; or injure, break deface or destroy any machinery, building, fixture,
box or apparatus connected with or belonging to the Fire Department. No person
shall willingly and knowingly give any false alarm by breaking any glass key-
box connected with the Fire Department or by crying “fire” or in any other
manner.
('71 Code, § 155.15)
Penalty, see § 130.99
DRUG OFFENSES
§ 130.25 SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS; SALE AND USE.
   (A)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids ("products"), such as K2/
Spice, or similar products which contain one or more of the following chemical
compounds:
      (1)   (6aR, 10aR)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6, 6-dimethyl-3-(2methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a, 7, 10, 10a-tetrahydrobenzo(c)chromen-1-o1, also known as HU-210;
      (2)   1-Pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole, also known as JWH-018;
      (3)   1-Butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole, also known as JWH-073; or
      (4)   Any other equivalent compound or derivative, shall not be sold,
marketed, or offered for sale within the city; and
   (B)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids ("products") may not be
burned, or incinerated or ignited in any public place or on any property owned,
or leased or controlled by the city.
(Ord. 20-2010, passed 9-13-10) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more
than $2,500 unless otherwise specified.
   (B)   Persons or entities violating the provisions of § 130.25 shall be
subject to the penalty imposed for a Class B infraction, as set forth in I.C.
34-28-5-4. Accordingly, §
130.25 shall be enforced by the provisions of I.C. 34-28-5.
(Am. Ord. 20-2010, passed 9-13-10)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
151.   HISTORIC DISTRICT
         
152.   HOUSING CODE
         
153.   RESERVED
         
154.   MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
         
155.   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
         
156.   RENTAL HOUSING; RENTAL HOUSING CODE
         
157.   SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
         
158.   [RESERVED]
         
159.   ZONING CODE
         
160.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   General Provisions
   
150.01   Fire limits established; construction within fire district
   
150.02   Installation of listed rapid entry key boxes, hazardous materials
cabinets, key switches, security padlocks, and fire sprinkler security
connection caps
Building Code
   
150.15   Title
   
150.16   Purpose
   
150.17   Administrating and enforcing authority
   
150.18   Scope
   
150.19   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.20   Permit required
   
150.21   Application for permits
   
150.22   Compliance with other ordinances and fees
   
150.23   Permit fees
   
150.24   Review of application
   
150.25   Inspections
   
150.26   Inspection assistance
   
150.27   Right of entry
   
150.28   Stop work order
   
150.29   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.30   Work to be performed according to accepted standards and practices
   
150.31   Garbage disposals
   
150.32   Causing or permitting violations prohibited
   
150.33   Right of appeal
   
150.34   Remedies
   
150.35   Conflict of interest in issuance of building permits
   
150.36   NEC standards for lighting installations
Unsafe Building Law
   
150.45   Establishment
   
150.46   Definitions
   
150.47   Adoption of state law by reference
   
150.48   Determination of unsafe buildings; abatement
   
150.49   Enforcing authority
   
150.50   Work to be performed according to accepted standards and practices
   
150.51   Conflicting procedures
   
150.52   Unsafe Building Fund
Moving or Wrecking Buildings
   
150.65   Permit required to move buildings; bond; reparations
   
150.66   Plugging sewer drains in demolished buildings
Electricians
   
150.70   General regulations
   
150.71   Licenses
   
150.72   Applications
   
150.73   Examinations and fees
   
150.74   Plans and permits
   
150.75   Penalty
Plumbers
   
150.76   City Inspector
   
150.77   Plumbers license required
   
150.78   Permits; fees
   
150.79   State plumbing code
   
150.80   Tests of plumbing
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Unsafe Building Law, see §§
150.45 through
150.52
   Fire Prevention, see
Chapter 93
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 FIRE LIMITS ESTABLISHED; CONSTRUCTION WITHIN FIRE DISTRICT.
   (A)   The fire limits of the city shall be the same as and contiguous with
the business district as shown on the zone map of the city.
('71 Code, § 155.11)
   (B)   Within the fire district, all new construction and all alterations to
existing structures shall be constructed with fire-resistant materials as
defined in the National Building Code of the Board of Fire Underwriters.
('71 Code, § 155.12)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.02 INSTALLATION OF LISTED RAPID ENTRY KEY BOXES, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
CABINETS, KEY SWITCHES, SECURITY PADLOCKS, AND FIRE SPRINKLER SECURITY
CONNECTION CAPS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      FIRE DISTRICT. The normal fire protection district both incorporated and
unincorporated within the boundaries of the city.
      FIRE OFFICIAL. The Fire Chief or his designee.
      KEY BOX. A UL listed box, size and style, approved by the Fire Official
that meets the requirements and uses the same security key code adopted by the
Fire Department.
      RESPONSIBLE PARTY. The person(s) charged with the responsibility for the
occupancy, building or business owner.
      SECURITY CAP. A Fire Department Connection (FDC) Plug and Cap approved
for use of the city by the Fire Official utilizing 2-1/2 inch National Standard
thread pattern.
      SECURITY PADLOCK. A padlock approved by the Fire Official that utilizes
the approved key code utilized by the Fire Department.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Mandatory key boxes for fire suppression and standpipe systems.
When a building within the city is protected by an automatic fire suppression
and/or standpipe system, it shall be equipped with a key box, installed at a
location approved by the Fire Official.
      (2)   Mandatory key boxes for automatic alarm system. When a building is
protected by an automatic alarm system and/or access to or within a building,
or an area within that building, is unduly difficult because of secured
openings, and where immediate access is necessary for life saving or
firefighting purposes, it shall be equipped with a key box, to be installed at
a location approved by the Fire Official.
      (3)   Mandatory storage cabinet. In occupancies storing or dispensing
hazardous materials, a hazardous materials cabinet may be required. This
cabinet will serve to store MSDS and other information as required.
      (4)   Automatic gates. When a property is accessed through a gate or
cross arm that impedes ingress through required fire lanes by means of a key or
swipe card, it shall be equipped with a key switch to be installed at a
location approved by the Fire Official.
      (5)   Security padlock. When a property is protected by a locked fence or
gate and where immediate access to the property is necessary for life saving
and firefighting purposes, it shall be equipped with a security padlock to be
installed at a location approved by the Fire Official. It shall then be the
responsibility of the responsible party to see that the fence or gate is
secured properly so that the security padlock is accessible.
      (6)   Construction sites. When a construction site is to be secured by a
locked fence or gate, that site will fall under division (B)(5) of this
section, during the duration of construction or until said fence or gate is
removed. The security padlock will be obtained by placing a security deposit
with the Fire Official in an amount set to cover replacement of security
padlock should it be lost or damaged. Once the deposit has been made, a Fire
Official will come to the construction site and explain the use of the security
padlock. It shall then be the responsibility of the construction company to see
that the fence or gate is secured properly so that the security padlock is
accessible.
      (7)   Security of Fire Department connections. When a building is
protected by an automatic sprinkler and/or standpipe system and the Fire
Department connection is exposed to vandalism, the Fire Official may require
that a security cap be installed.
      (8)   Non-applicability to particular dwellings.  This section shalt not
apply to owner occupied one or two-family dwellings. Owners of single and two
family occupancies are encouraged to participate voluntarily utilizing a
residential security box.
      (9)   Key box contents. The key boxes shall contain, but not be limited
to, the following items as designated by the Fire Official.
         (a)   Labeled keys to locked points of egress, whether in interior or
exterior of such buildings;
         (b)   Labeled keys to the locked mechanical rooms;
         (c)   Labeled keys to any fence or secured areas not covered in
division (B)(4), (5), and (6);
         (d)   Labeled keys to any other areas that may be required by the Fire
Official.
         (e)   A card containing the emergency contact people and phone numbers
for each occupancy.
         (f)   Floor plans of the rooms within the building may also be
required, showing locations of shut-offs.
         (g)   Hazardous materials MSDS as required.
         (h)   It is the duty of the responsible party to notify the Fire
Department when the key box contents needs to be updated.
      (10)   Alert decals. Alert decals, approved by the Fire Official, to
alert fire companies of the presence of security features covered by this
section, will be displayed on any outside doors or windows as designated by the
Fire Official.
      (11)   Compliance. All existing buildings or businesses and all newly
constructed buildings, not yet occupied or buildings currently under
construction, and all buildings or businesses applying for a certificate of
occupancy, and/or building permits will be required to comply with this
section. The cost of purchasing and installing, along with any cost associated
with implementation of the program at a specific property, will be borne by the
responsible party.
      (12)   Noncompliance.  Noncompliance with this section will subject the
responsible party to a fine of $100. Continued noncompliance may result in
revocation of certificate of occupancy by the Building Official.
      (13)   Return of keys. Six months following passage of this section, all
keys currently in possession of the Fire Department will be returned to the
responsible party.
(Ord. 8-2005, passed 6-27-05)
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.15 TITLE.
   This subchapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the Building Code of Vincennes, Indiana, may be cited as such, and
will be referred to herein as “this code.”
('71 Code, § 150.01)
§ 150.16 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this code is to provide minimum standards for the protection
of life, health, environment, public safety and general welfare, and for the
conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
('71 Code, § 150.02)
§ 150.17 ADMINISTRATING AND ENFORCING AUTHORITY.
   The City Inspector is hereby authorized and directed to administer and
enforce all of the provisions of this code. Whenever in this code it is
provided that anything must be done to the approval of or subject to the
direction of the City Inspector or any other officer of the city, this shall be
construed to give such officer only the discretion of determining whether this
code has been complied with; and no such provision shall be construed as giving
any officer discretionary powers as to what this code shall be, or power to
require conditions not prescribed by ordinances or to enforce this code in an
arbitrary or discriminatory manner. Any variance from adopted building rules
are subject to approval under I.C. 22-13-2-(b).
('71 Code, § 150.0) (Am. Ord. 7-88, passed 3-14-88)
§ 150.18 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this code apply to the construction, alterations, repair,
use, occupancy, maintenance and additions to all buildings and structures,
other than fences, in the city, industrialized building systems or mobile
structures certified under IC 22-15-4.
('71 Code, § 150.04)
§ 150.19 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Building rules of the Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission as set out in the following Articles of Title 675 of the Indiana
Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by reference in this subchapter and
shall include later amendments to those articles as the same are published in
the Indiana Register or the Indiana Administrative Code with effective dates as
fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 13 — Building Codes:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards.
         (b)   Indiana Building Code.
         (c)   Indiana Building Code Standards.
         (d)   Indiana Handicapped Accessibility Code.
      (2)   Article 14 — One and Two Family Dwelling Codes:
         (a)   Council of American Building Officials One and Two Family
Dwelling Code.
         (b)   CABO One and Two Family Dwelling Code; Amendments.
         (c)   Standard for Permanent Installation of Manufactured Homes.
      (3)   Article 16 — Plumbing Codes:
            Indiana Plumbing Code.
      (4)   Article 17 — Electrical Codes:
         (a)   Indiana Electrical Code.
         (b)   Safety Code for Health Care Facilities.
      (5)   Article 18 — Mechanical Codes:
            Indiana Mechanical Code.
      (6)   Article 19 — Energy Conservation Codes:
         (a)   Indiana Energy Conservation Code.
         (b)   Modifications to the Model Energy Code.
      (7)   Article 20 — Swimming Pool Codes:
            Indiana Swimming Pool Code.
   (B)   Copies of adopted building rules, codes and standards are on file in
the office of the City Inspector.
('71 Code, § 150.05) (Am. Ord. 7-88, passed 3-14-88)
§ 150.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A permit shall be obtained before beginning construction, alteration
or repair of any building or structure, of which the cost of which exceeds
$250; using forms furnished by the City Inspector; and all fees required by
this code shall be paid to the City Inspector.
   (B)   Prior to requesting permits for new construction or additions to
existing structures from the City Inspector's office, an improvement location
permit must be obtained.
('71 Code, § 150.07) (Ord. 6-76, passed 2-23-76)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.21 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   No building permit shall be issued for the foregoing purposes, unless the
application for a permit is accompanied by a plat or sketch of the proposed
location showing lot boundaries, and by plans and specifications showing the
work to be done. In addition, a copy of a design release, issued by the State
Building Commissioner and the State Fire Marshal pursuant to IC 22-15-3-1,
shall be provided to the City Inspector before issuance of a permit for
construction covered by that design release.
('71 Code, § 150.06) (Am. Ord. 7-88, passed 3-14-88)
§ 150.22 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER ORDINANCES AND FEES.
   All work done under any permit shall be in full compliance with all other
ordinances pertaining thereto, and in addition to the fees for permits, there
shall be paid the fees prescribed in those ordinances.
('71 Code, § 150.08)
§ 150.23 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The fees for all permits shall be as follows:
      (1)   Building work: $3 per $1,000 of estimated cost; with minimum fee of
$25.
      (2)   Electrical work: 1% of estimated cost; with minimum fee of $25.
      (3)   Plumbing work: 1% of estimated cost; with minimum fee of $25.
      (4)   (a)   Sewer taps: $355 per new tap-in; $350 per replacement tap-in;
and $5 for connecting to existing sewer line of the property.
         (b)   New areas where the city installs new sewers: $1,040. (See )
      (5)   Structure moving: $200 for the first block or fraction thereof; $1
for each additional block or fraction thereof.
      (6)   Heating, ventilation and air-conditioning: 1% of estimated cost;
with minimum fee of $25.
      (7)   Gas piping: 1% of contract amount; with minimum fee of $25.
      (8)   All other piping: 1% of contract amount; with minimum fee of $25.
      (9)   Demolition permit: $50 for residential; $100 for commercial or
industrial.
      (10)   Roofing/remodeling: $3 per $1,000 of estimated costs; with minimum
fee of $25.
      (11)   Fencing: $25.
      (12)   Swimming pools: in-ground $50; above-ground $25.
   (B)   The minimum fee for any permit shall be $10.
   (C)   In the event that work is started on any construction, repairs,
alterations, moving or demolition of structures or buildings before the
required permits are obtained, then the cost of that permit shall be two times
the fee otherwise provided.
   (D)   The minimum permit fee under divisions (A)(1), (2), (3) and (6) of
this section shall be charged for a one- or two-family dwelling constructed
solely by students enrolled in a Building Trades Program of an accredited
school corporation or university located in the county, on real property owned
by the school, corporation or university; provided that this division (D) shall
apply to no more than two such one- or two-family dwellings constructed each
school year by that school, corporation or university.
   (E)   The fees set out in division (A) hereinabove shall apply to all
building permits except permits required by other governmental agencies, such
as, Vincennes University, Vincennes School Corporation or Good Samaritan
Hospital. The fees for permits required by such governmental agencies shall be
an amount equal to $30 per hour for all time spent by any city employee,
particularly the City Inspector, City Engineer and Fire Chief, in conducting
the inspections required by this code or any applicable ordinance of the city,
or state law.
   (F)   Upon making application for a permit under this division, the City
Inspector shall estimate the hours anticipated to be spent in conducting the
inspections and the applicant shall pay an amount equal to $30 times the
estimated hours at which time the permit shall be issued. All city employees
engaged in inspection services shall keep a record of the dates and time
involved in any inspections. Upon completion of the building project for which
the permit is secured, the applicant will be furnished a copy of these records
and will either be reimbursed if the estimated time was excessive compared to
the actual time spent, or will be billed and pay any additional fee if the
actual time to be spent was underestimated.
('71 Code, § 150.09) (Ord. 29-88, passed 8-9-88; Am. Ord. 13-2008, passed 9-22-
08; Am. Ord. 16-2008, passed 10-14-08)
§ 150.24 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the City Inspector shall:
   (A)   Review all building permit applications to determine full compliance
with the provisions of this code.
   (B)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
   (C)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the flood
plain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed repair:
      (1)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
      (2)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
('71 Code, § 150.10) (Am. Ord. 7-88, passed 3-14-88)
§ 150.25 INSPECTIONS.
   After the issuance of any building permit, the City Inspector shall make, or
shall cause to be made, inspections of the work being done as are necessary to
insure full compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and the terms of
the permit. Reinspection or work found to be incomplete or not ready for
inspection are subject to assessment of reinspection fees as prescribed in this
code.
('71 Code, § 150.11) (Am. Ord. 7-88, passed 3-14-88)
§ 150.26 INSPECTION ASSISTANCE.
   The Chief of the Fire Department, or his designated representative, shall
assist the City Inspector in the inspection of fire suppression, detection and
alarm systems and shall provide reports of that inspection to the City
Inspector.
('71 Code, § 150.12)
§ 150.27 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the City Inspector or his duly
authorized representatives may enter at reasonable times any building,
structure or premises in the city to perform any duty imposed upon him by this
code.
('71 Code, § 150.13) (Am. Ord. 7-88, passed 3-14-88)
§ 150.28 STOP WORK ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this code, the
City Inspector may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on any
persons engaged in the doing or causing that work to be done, and any other
persons shall forthwith stop that work until authorized by the City Inspector
to proceed with the work.
('71 Code, § 150.14)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.29 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   There will be no certificate of occupancy issued.
('71 Code, § 150.15)
§ 150.30 WORK TO BE PERFORMED ACCORDING TO ACCEPTED STANDARDS AND PRACTICES.
   All work on the construction, alteration and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good and workman-like manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade.
('71 Code, § 150.16) (Am. Ord. 7-88, passed 3-14-88)
§ 150.31 GARBAGE DISPOSALS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   GARBAGE GRINDER or GARBAGE DISPOSAL. A device designed to be installed
between a plumbing fixture and a properly vented trap connected to a drain and
so constructed that it will reduce waste food products to sizes that can be
carried into the sewer system.
   UNIT. Dwelling unit or any building or portion thereof designed to be
separately rented, leased or occupied for residential use.
   (B)   No dwelling unit whether constructed singly or in groups as multiple
dwellings or apartments and no other unit whether commercial, industrial or
otherwise, which is designed for storage, handling, processing, preparation or
consumption of fruits, vegetables, grains, meats or other food stuffs, in any
manner so as the produce garbage or unusable or unmerchantable waste material,
shall be constructed unless it shall be equipped with an approved type of
garbage grinder or grinders readily accessible and properly connected to the
sewer.
   (C)   Specifications for disposals.
      (1)   The grinder and connections shall be of a size as to grind all
garbage or waste materials likely to be produced or accumulated in the unit in
which it is installed.
      (2)   The grinder or disposal shall operate when water is flowing through
it into properly vented trap and house sewer connection.
      (3)   The grinder or disposal shall discharge ground waste at a
reasonably, uniform rate in fluid form which fluid will flow readily through an
approved trap, drain line or soil line without clogging or stoppage.
      (4)   It shall be of a construction and have operation characteristics
that at least 40% of all material discharged from it shall pass through a
number 8 sieve; at least 65% shall pass through a number 4 sieve; and 100%
shall pass through a 1/2-half inch screen.
      (5)   It shall be self-scouring with no fouling surfaces and no
objectionable odor after continued use.
      (6)   It shall be free from electrical or mechanical hazards to person or
property.
      (7)   It shall be installed to comply in all particulars with the
provisions of all electrical and plumbing codes in effect in the city at the
time of installation.
('71 Code, § 150.17) (Am. Ord. 7-88, passed 3-14-88)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.32 CAUSING OR PERMITTING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation whether as owner,
lessee, sub-lessee or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building
or structure, other than fences, in the city or cause or permit the same to be
done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this code.
('71 Code, § 150.18) (Am. Ord. 7-88, passed 3-14-88)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.33 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal the City Inspector's decision
first through the Board of Public Works and Safety and then to the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission of Indiana in accordance with the
provisions of I.C. 22-13-2-7 and I.C. 4-20.5.
('71 Code, § 150.19) (Am. Ord. 7-88, passed 3-14-88)
§ 150.34 REMEDIES.
   The City Inspector shall in the name of the city bring actions in the
circuit or superior courts of the county, for mandatory and injunctive relief
in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order or orders made by
the City Inspector, and any other action for mandatory or injunctive relief may
be joined with an action to recover the penalties provided for in this
subchapter.
('71 Code, § 150.20) (Am. Ord. 7-88, passed 3-14-88)
§ 150.35 CONFLICT OF INTEREST IN ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to satisfy the requirements of IC 36-1-
27-4.
   (B)   As used in this section, CONFLICT OF INTEREST means a direct or
indirect financial interest in the issuance of a permit, pursuant to IC 36-1-
27-l.
   (C)   As used in this section, PERMIT has the meaning set forth in IC 36-7-
4-1109(b).
   (D)   A building commissioner, building code official, or inspector of the
city may not issue a permit or oversee the issuance of a permit through a
subordinate if the building commissioner, building code official, or inspector
has a conflict of interest.
   (E)   A building commissioner, building code official, inspector, or other
employee of the city shall report a conflict of interest to the Mayor and the
City Attorney.
   (F)   Promptly upon receipt of a conflict of interest report made under this
division, the Mayor in consultation with the City Attorney, shall appoint a
qualified temporary replacement building commissioner, building code official,
or inspector.
(Ord. 6-2019, passed 8-12-19)
§ 150.36 NEC STANDARDS FOR LIGHTING INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   All lighting installations within the corporate city limits of the
City of Vincennes shall meet or exceed the National Electrical Code (NEC)
standards.
   (B)   The NEC is updated every three years to include the latest in
electrical safety technology and best practices. It is important to note that
the NEC is a minimum standard.
   (C)   All lighting designs shall be submitted to the City Engineer for
review and approval. Submittals shall include a lighting design sheet showing
horizontal layout with respect to the road plans. Photometric detail showing
that the lighting design meets the requirements specified shall be submitted
for review. Photometric design sheets can be omitted if a 100' alternating
spacing is provided with the pole, luminaire and height meet requirements.
Lights shall be 100' apart on opposite staggared spacing and 200' on the same
side of the road. Cul-de-sacs will need to be submitted with photometric design
showing that the lighting meets Table 1 requirements.
 
Table 1
Photometric Requirements
                           Min.   Max.
Luminosity                 0.2 fc N/A
Average Luminosity         0.7 fc 1.0 fc
Average/Minimum Luminosity 3.0 fc 4.0 fc
 
   (D)   The pole, luminaire, and photometric properties shall match the
details in the regulations. Alternate equal submittals can be submitted for
approval. Shop drawings to be reviewed and approved by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 5-2023, passed 4-24-23)
UNSAFE BUILDING LAW
§ 150.45 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Under the provisions of IC 36-7-9, there is hereby established the City
Unsafe Building Law.
('71 Code, § 159.01) (Ord. 19-88, passed 6-13-88)
§ 150.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. As set forth in IC 36-7-9-2 is hereby
incorporated by reference herein as if copied in full.
('71 Code, § 156.08)
   UNSAFE BUILDING.
      (1)   The description of an unsafe building contained in IC 36-7-9-4 is
hereby supplemented to provide minimum standards for building condition or
maintenance in the city by adding the following definition:
      (2)   Any building or structure which has any or all of the conditions or
defects hereinafter described, provided that such conditions or defects exist
to the extent that life, health, property, or safety of the public or its
occupants are endangered:
         (a)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is
not of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
         (b)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway
or other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as
to not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
         (c)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or
location.
         (d)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire,
earthquake, wind, flood or by any other cause, to such an extent that the
structural strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before
such catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location.
         (e)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely
to fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property.
         (f)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member appurtenance,
or ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached, or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for those buildings.
         (g)   Whenever any portion thereof has cracked, warped, buckled or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction.
         (h)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof,
because of dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; faulty construction; the
removal, movement, or instability of any portion of ground necessary for the
purpose of supporting that building; the deterioration, decay or inadequacy of
its foundation; or any other cause, is likely to partially or completely
collapse.
         (i)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any
portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being
used.
         (j)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base.
         (k)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its nonsupporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings.
         (l)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake, or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to
become an attractive nuisance to children; or freely accessible to persons for
the purpose of committing unlawful acts.
         (m)   Whenever the building or structure has been constructed, exists
or is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of this city or of any law or ordinance of this state or of any law or
ordinance of this state or city relating to the condition, location, or
structure of buildings.
         (n)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any nonsupporting
part, member, or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member, or
portion less than 66%, of the strength, fire-resisting qualities or
characteristics or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required in
the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height and occupancy in
the same location.
         (o)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used
for dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air, or
sanitation facilities or otherwise is determined by the Health Official to be
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such a condition that is likely
to cause sickness or disease.
         (p)   Whenever the building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exists, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction is determined by the Fire Chief of the
city to be a fire hazard.
         (q)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
('71 Code, § 156.07) (Ord. 19-88, passed 6-13-88)
§ 150.47 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The provisions of IC 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 are hereby
incorporated by reference in the Unsafe Building Law. All proceedings within
the city for the inspection, repair and removal of unsafe buildings shall be
governed by that law and the provisions of this subchapter. In the event the
provisions of this subchapter conflict with the provisions of IC 36-7-9-
1 through 36-8-9-28, then the provisions of the state statute shall control.
('71 Code, § 159.02)
   (B)   At any time this subchapter or the state of Indiana Unsafe Building
Law refers to “Building Commissioner” it shall be interpreted to mean for
purposes of this subchapter the Vincennes City Inspector.
('71 Code, § 159.04)
(Ord. 19-88, passed 6-13-88)
§ 150.48 DETERMINATION OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS; ABATEMENT.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the city which are determined after
inspection the Building Commissioner to be unsafe as defined in this subchapter
are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair,
rehabilitation, demolition or removal.
('71 Code, § 159.03) (Ord. 19-88, passed 6-13-88)
§ 150.49 ENFORCING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Vincennes Building Commissioner shall be authorized to administer
and to proceed under the provisions of the law in ordering the repair or
removal of any buildings found to be unsafe as specified therein or as
specified hereafter.
('71 Code, § 159.05)
   (B)   Wherever in the building regulations of the city or the Indiana Unsafe
Building Law it is provided that anything must be done to the approval of or
subject to the direction of the Building Commissioner or any other officer of
the city, this shall be construed to give the officer only the discretion of
determining whether the rules and standards established by this code or any
other applicable ordinance of the city have been complied with; and no such
provisions shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to
what those regulations or standards shall be, power to require conditions not
prescribed by this code and any other applicable ordinance of the city, or to
enforce code or ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or discretionary manner.
('71 Code, § 159.06)
(Ord. 19-88, passed 6-13-88)
§ 150.50 WORK TO BE PERFORMED ACCORDING TO ACCEPTED STANDARDS AND PRACTICES.
   All work for the construction, repair or demolition of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner according to the
accepted standards and practices in the trade. The provisions of the building
laws, as defined in IC 22-12-1-3, adopted as rules of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, shall be considered standard and acceptable
practice for all matters covered by this subchapter or orders issued pursuant
to this subchapter by the City Building Commissioner of the city.
('71 Code, § 156.09) (Ord. 19-88, passed 6-13-88)
§ 150.51 CONFLICTING PROCEDURES.
   The present Housing Code in
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances in some respects covers the same subject
matter as this subchapter. Wherever there may be a conflict between
Chapter 152 and this subchapter, the language of this subchapter shall prevail.
('71 Code, § 156.13) (Ord. 19-88, passed 6-13-88)
§ 150.52 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the budget of the city in
accordance with the provisions of IC 36-7-9-14.
('71 Code, § 156.10) (Ord. 19-88, passed 6-13-88)
MOVING OR WRECKING BUILDINGS
§ 150.65 PERMIT REQUIRED TO MOVE BUILDINGS; BOND; REPARATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall move any building over or along any street or alley of
the city without first obtaining a permit from the Board of Public Works and
Safety. The permit shall be based upon a petition in writing addressed to the
Board and shall set forth a description of the building, the points from and to
which the removal is to be made, the route to be taken and the streets and
alleys to be passed over; and no building shall be moved over any street, alley
or route other than that specified in the petition granting the permission.
   (B)   No permission shall be given until the person applying shall execute a
bond in the penal sum of $500 with good surety conditioned for the faithful and
prompt performance of the removal as permitted, to secure the city against
damage to the streets and alleys, and the citizens or property owners against
damage to their private property. The bond shall be made payable to the city
for the use and benefit of the city or anyone damaged by such removal, and
anyone so damaged may maintain action thereon for that damage.
   (C)   No person shall make any unnecessary stoppages or delays upon any
street or alley when removing such building, or occupy more than six days,
exclusive of Sunday, in the transit from the old to the new location.
   (D)   Any injury done to any street or alley by reason of such removal shall
be repaired by the person to whom the permit is given within 24 hours, to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer.
('71 Code, § 153.01)
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.66 PLUGGING SEWER DRAINS IN DEMOLISHED BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No person shall remove or demolish any building having connected
therewith a building drain and/or building sewer without first reporting the
existence of the building to be removed or demolished.
   (B)   No person while so removing or demolishing any building having
connected therewith any building drain or building sewer shall fail to plug and
completely close the same under the supervision of the City Inspector and the
Sewer Superintendent.
('71 Code, § 153.02)
Penalty, see § 150.99
ELECTRICIANS
§ 150.70 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   All wiring done in the City of Vincennes, Indiana, shall comply with the
requirements of the current National Code (also known as Indiana Electrical
Rules and Regulations, Volume II), and shall be installed by a licensed
electrician. No work on new construction including additions, shall be covered
until inspected and approved by the City Inspector. An advance notice of 24
hours prior to an inspection is required. In the event the Inspector cannot
make the requested inspection, the electrical work may be covered if the
licensed electrician furnishes the Inspector's Office with a signed affidavit
stating that all work was done in conformance with the National Electrical
Code. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to repeat, amend, modify or
dispense with any provisions of the state law, but shall be supplemental and
additional thereto. The electrician shall make sure that an electrical
installation permit has been obtained prior to commencing any work on the job
site.
   (A)   Exceptions. Branch circuit and control wiring only or heating,
ventilating and air conditioning units may be installed by an employee or a
recognized heating, ventilating and air conditioning contractor.
   (B)   (1)   From and after the effective date of this section, all
electrical services installed or upgraded within the city shall have one means
of disconnecting the electrical current delivered to such service. Departments
of the city shall have access to such disconnect at all times.
      (2)   From and after the effective date of this section, any interruption
of electrical service requiring or permitting “potential metering” shall have
an individual, weatherproof disconnect switch located on the outside of the
building to which such electrical service is connected. Departments of the city
shall have access to such disconnect switch at all times and shall have the
right to disconnect electrical service to ensure safety.
      (3)   All electrical service installed on buildings constructed after the
effective date of this section shall have electrical disconnects as provided in
divisions (1) and (2) hereof, installed at the time of construction. All
existing buildings requiring electrical disconnects as provided in divisions
(1) and (2) hereof shall have such disconnects installed if the existing
service is disrupted, changed, or updated.
      (4)   The City Building Inspector’s office may waive the disconnect
requirements at its own discretion or in case of hardship, safety reasons, or
if due to inaccessibility on building areas, such as alleyways, fences, or/and
other obstruction. This can be accomplished by written consent by all parties
(customer, electrician and city inspector) involved.
(Ord. 23-79, passed 10-9-79; Am. Ord. 4-95, passed 3-13-95; Am. Ord. 8-2021,
passed 5-10-21)
Cross reference:
   City Inspector in charge of installation of all electrical equipment, see
§ 37.01
§ 150.71 LICENSES.
   There shall be four types of electrical licenses:
   (A)   Master Electrician. This covers electrical contracting companies
engaged in commercial and residential work, and individual electricians
experienced in all phases of electrical work.
      (1)   Master Electrician Licenses will be issued to present holders of
valid Master Electrician Licenses from the City of Vincennes upon surrender of
present license and payment of the fee set forth in §
150.73. Any person doing electrical contracting shall have a Master Electrician
License, and shall file proof of liability insurance with the City Inspector
when applying for a license. Licenses must be exchanged within 60 days of the
effective date of Ordinance 23-79. Thereafter, an examination must be taken.
   (B)   Journeyman Electrician. The term “Journeyman Electrician” shall mean a
workman qualified and competent in the trade of electricians and who may be
employed by a licensed Master Electrician.
      (1)   Journeyman Electrician Licenses may be issued to those electricians
not having a City of Vincennes license upon submission of a notarized statement
from a Master Electrician that they are considered knowledgeable and
experienced in the trade and upon payment of the fee set forth in §
150.73. This license must be obtained within 60 days of the effective date of
Ordinance 23-79 after which time the prescribed examination listed in §
150.73 must be taken and passed.
   (C)   Residential Wireman. This covers electrical work in single-family or
duplex residences and attached or separate garages housing family cars.
      (1)   Holders of valid Class “B” Electrician Licenses from the City of
Vincennes can turn the Class “B” License in for a Residential Wireman's License
with the payment of the fee set forth in §
150.73. This license must be obtained within 60 days of the effective date of
Ordinance 23-79.
   (D)   Apprentice Electrician. This license may be obtained upon submission
of an application to the City Inspector's Office and payment of the fee set
forth in §
150.73 after the application has been approved.
   (E)   Suspension and Revocation. Any electrician doing work outside of the
license classification issued to him or employing unlicensed electricians shall
have his license revoked by the Board of Public Works and Safety for a period
to be determined by said Board or fined as provided in §
150.75.
   (F)   Temporary Permits. Journeyman Electricians holding a valid license
from another town or city or union electrician's card, may be issued a
Temporary Work Permit for a period of 90 days. Such Temporary Work Permit will
be issued only to Journeyman Electricians employed by Master Electricians. Fees
shall be as set forth in §
150.73.
(Ord. 23-79, passed 10-9-79; Am. Ord. 4-95, passed 3-13-95)
§ 150.72 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Application forms for tests as Master Electricians, Journeyman
Electricians and/or Residential Wireman may be obtained at the City Inspector's
Office. Applications for Apprentice Electricians may also be obtained from the
City Inspector's Office. Applications for Work Permits may be obtained from the
City Inspector's Office.
   (B)   Submittal — all applications for tests must be submitted to the City
Inspector's Office by the end of the month prior to the month set for tests.
Applications must be accompanied by the fees set forth in §
150.73.
(Ord. 23-79, passed 10-9-79; Am. Ord. 4-95, passed 3-13-95)
§ 150.73 EXAMINATIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Tests. Examination questions will be prepared and graded by an
independent testing agency. The testing agency shall be approved by the
Vincennes Board of Public Works and Safety. Tests will be given on the last
Wednesday in February, June and October in City Hall at 8:30 a.m.
   (B)   Fees. The fees for examinations listed herein must accompany the
submittal of the applications. In the event the applicant does not show up for
the examination on the scheduled date, the fee will be forfeited.
   Master Electrician Examination Fee:      $55
   Journeyman Electrician Examination Fee:   $55
   Residential Wireman Examination Fee:   $55
   License Fees:
   Master Electrician Fee:         $50 per year
   Journeyman Electrician Fee:         $30 per year
   Residential Wireman Fee:         $30 per year
   Apprentice Electrician Fee:         $15 per year
   All electrical licenses shall be issued by the City Inspector and moneys
received theretofore shall be accounted for in the same manner as permit
collections.
   Old licenses to be exchanged for new licenses and requests for Journeyman
Licenses as outlined in §
150.71(A) must be presented within 30 days of the effective date of Ordinance
23-79. Thirty days after the date of Ordinance 23-79, the old licenses will be
invalid and new ones will require passing the applicable examination.
   (C)   Temporary Work Permits. The fee for the Temporary Work Permit shall be
$10 and a Temporary Permit shall be issued for 90 days.
(Ord. 23-79, passed 10-9-79; Am. Ord. 4-95, passed 3-13-95; Am. Ord. 13-2008,
passed 9-22-08; Am. Ord. 16-2008, passed 10-14-08)
§ 150.74 PLANS AND PERMITS.
   Permits for electrical work will be issued to licensed electricians only,
except for single-family dwellings occupied by the owner, where permits will be
issued to the owner provided he is doing his own electrical work and not
employing others to install wiring and plans to live in the dwelling for more
than one year. Plans showing electrical layout giving wire sizes shall be
submitted prior to the request for issuance of the electrical permits.
Electricians taking out permits shall file proof of insurance conforming to the
Indiana State requirements.
§ 150.75 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provisions of this Chapter shall be subject to a
fine of not less than $50 nor more than $200. Each day of continued violation
shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 23-79, passed 10-9-79; Am. Ord. 4-95, passed 3-13-95)
PLUMBERS
§ 150.76 CITY INSPECTOR.
   All inspections required to be conducted of plumbing in the City of
Vincennes shall be conducted by the City Inspector or the Deputy Inspector.
(Ord. 20-76, passed 4-26-76; Am. Ord. 4-95, passed 3-13-95)
Statutory references:
   Council to regulate plumbing contractors, see I.C. 25-28.5-1-1 et seq.
   Registration of plumber; inspection of plumbing, see I.C. 25-28.5-1-1 et
seq.
Cross reference:
   Sewer regulations, see
Chapter 51
§ 150.77 PLUMBERS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   All plumbing contractors, journeyman plumbers and apprentice plumbers, prior
to performing any plumbing work in the City of Vincennes, must have a valid
Indiana State Plumbing License or Certificate of Registration. The License or
Certificate of Registration must be shown upon request by the City Inspector or
the Deputy City Inspector.
(Ord. 20-76, passed 4-26-76; Am. Ord. 4-95, passed 3-13-95)
§ 150.78 PERMITS: FEES.
   Permits for installation of plumbing and drainage within houses and
buildings of all types within the City of Vincennes are required. The cost of
the permit will be as specified in §
150.73 of the Municipal Code of the City of Vincennes, Indiana, and the permits
are obtainable at the Office of the City Inspector.
(Ord. 20-76, passed 4-26-76; Ord. 4-95, passed 3-13-95)
§ 150.79 STATE PLUMBING CODE.
   All plumbing shall be installed in conformance with the rules, regulations
and conditions as set forth in the current State of Indiana Administrative
Building Council Construction Rules and Regulations, Volume III, entitled
“Uniform Plumbing Code” and present and/or future amendments thereto.
(Ord. 20-76, passed 4-26-76; Am. Ord. 4-95, passed 3-13-95)
§ 150.80 TESTS OF PLUMBING.
   Tests of all drain, waste and vent piping shall be made prior to concealing
the work. The Office of the City Inspector shall be notified at least 24 hours
in advance of the test. All water supply lines shall be tested prior to
concealment with notice to the Office of the City Inspector at least 24 hours
in advance of the test.
(Ord. 20-76, passed 4-26-76; Am. Ord. 4-95, passed 3-13-95)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the provisions
of §§
150.15 through
150.34, or shall do any act prohibited in those sections, or shall fail to
perform any duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the City
Inspector, or shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order given by
the City Inspector in connection with the provisions of those sections for each
violation, failure or refusal, that person, firm or corporation shall be fined
in any sum not less than $100, nor more than $2,500. Each day of such unlawful
activity shall constitute a separate offense.
('71 Code, § 150.21) (Am. Ord. 7-88, passed 3-14-88)
   (C)   No person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee,
or occupant shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or premises, or
cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of §§
150.45 through
150.52 or any order issued by the Building Commissioners. Any person violating
the provisions of those sections or I.C. 36-7-9-28 shall commit a Class C
infraction for each day that violation continues.
('71 Code, § 156.11)
(Ord. 19-88, passed 6-13-88)
CHAPTER 151: HISTORIC DISTRICT
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Establishment of boundaries
Establishment of Historic District; Procedure
   
151.15   Approval required
   
151.16   Further surveying and mapping
   
151.17   Relationship to zoning districts
   
151.18   Certificate of appropriateness required
   
151.19   Action on applications for certificate for appropriateness
   
151.20   Development standards
   
151.21   Visual compatibility; factors
Board of Review
   
151.35   Establishment; organization
   
151.36   Powers and duties
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Historic District Review Board of the city.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL. The certificate issued by the Board upon the form
and in the fashion as the Board shall determine and adopt.
('71 Code, Ch. 158, § 1) (Ord. 40-1984, passed 11-14-84)
§ 151.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Pursuant to this chapter, a survey has been conducted to identify
historical buildings, structures and places within the city. The Board has
submitted to the Common Council a map describing the boundaries of an historic
district and designating on the map all buildings and structures within the
district by classification.
   (B)   Boundaries of an Historic District for the city, covering the
following described area shall be as follows:
      Beginning at the low water mark of the Wabash River at the extension of
the center line of Indianapolis street; thence southeast along the center line
of Indianapolis Street to a point 30 feet northwest of the Hack and Simon
Brewery Office; thence northeast 100 feet; thence southeast parallel with
Indianapolis Street to the center of Fourth Street; thence southeast along the
center line of Fourth Street to the center of Harrison Street; thence southeast
along Harrison Street to the alley between Eighth and Ninth Streets; thence
southwest along the alley between Eighth and Ninth Streets to the center of
Hart Street; thence northwest along Hart Street to the center of Eighth Street;
thence southwest along Eighth Street to the alley between Perry and Seminary
Streets; thence southeast along the alley between Perry and Seminary Streets to
the center of Ninth Street; thence southwest along Ninth Street to the center
of Broadway; thence southeast along Broadway to the center of Tenth Street;
thence southwest along Tenth Street to the center of Main Street; thence
northwest along Main Street to the center of Ninth Street; thence southwest
along Ninth Street to the center of Vigo Street; thence northwest along Vigo
Street to the center of Seventh Street; thence southwest along Seventh Street
to the center of Nicholas Street; thence northwest along Nicholas Street to the
center of Sixth Street; thence southwest along the center of Sixth Street to
the center of Bayou Street; thence northwest along the center of Bayou Street
to the center of Fifth Street; thence northeast along Fifth Street to the
center of Nicholas Street; thence northwest along Nicholas Street to the center
of Third Street; thence southwest along Third Street to the center of Willow
Street thence northwest along Willow Street center line projected to the low
water mark of the Wabash River; thence following the low water line
northeasterly to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 31-87, passed 9-9-87)
ESTABLISHMENT OF HISTORIC DISTRICT; PROCEDURE
§ 151.15 APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   The map setting forth the historic district boundaries and building
classifications must be submitted to, and approved in an ordinance by, the
Common Council before the historic district is established and the building
classifications take effect. The Common Council shall conduct public hearings
prior to adoption of an ordinance approving the maps setting forth the historic
district boundaries and building classifications and shall provide public
notice of those hearings.
('71 Code, Ch. 158, § 4) (Ord. 40-1984, passed 11-14-84)
§ 151.16 FURTHER SURVEYING AND MAPPING.
   The Historic District Review Board may conduct additional surveys, and draw
and submit additional maps for approval of the Common Council, as it considers
appropriate.
('71 Code, Ch. 158, § 5) (Ord. 40-1984, passed 11-14-84)
§ 151.17 RELATIONSHIP TO ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The historic district regulation provided in this chapter is intended to
preserves and protect the historic architecturally worthy buildings,
structures, sites, monuments, streetscapes, squares, and neighborhoods of the
historic districts. Zoning districts lying within the boundaries of the
historic district are subject to the regulations for both the zoning district
and the historic district. If there is a conflict between the requirements of
the historic district, the more restrictive requirements shall apply.
('71 Code, Ch. 158, § 6) (Ord. 40-1984, passed 11-14-84)
§ 151.18 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS REQUIRED.
   (A)   A certificate of appropriateness must be issued by the Historic
District Review Board before a building, moving or demolition permit is issued
by the City Inspector for, or work is begun, on, any of the following:
      (1)   Within all areas of the historic district:
         (a)   The demolition of any building;
         (b)   The moving of any building;
         (c)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of existing
buildings including additions, reconstruction, alteration, or resurfacing; or
         (d)   Any new construction of a principal building or accessory
building or structure subject to view from a public way.
      (2)   Within a primary area of the historic district:
         (a)   The demolition of any building;
         (b)   The moving of any building;
         (c)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of existing
buildings by additions, reconstruction, alteration, resurfacing or maintenance
involving exterior color changes;
         (d)   Any new construction of a principal building or accessory
building or structure subject to view from a public way;
         (e)   A change in walls and fences or construction of walls and
fences, if along public ways;
         (f)   All planting, pruning, and demolition of trees within front
building line and street; or
         (g)   Any change in the existing sidewalk.
('71 Code, Ch. 158, § 7)
   (B)   Application for certificate of appropriateness.
      (1)   Application for a certificate of appropriateness may be made in the
office of the City Inspector on forms adopted and provided by the Board.
Preliminary drawings, plans, and specifications are required. A fee of $25
shall be submitted to the City Inspector at the time the application is made.
      (2)   In the event an application is approved, the Board shall have the
responsibility and authority to determine that the applicant complies with this
subchapter and particularly with §
151.21.
('71 Code, Ch. 158, § 8)
(Ord. 40-1984, passed 11-14-84; Am. Ord. 13-2008, passed 9-22-08; Am. Ord. 16-
2008, passed 10-14-08)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.19 ACTION ON APPLICATIONS FOR CERTIFICATE FOR APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   The Historic District Review Board may advise and make recommendations
to the applicant before acting on an application for a certificate of
appropriateness.
   (B)   If an application for a certificate of appropriateness is approved by
the Board; or is not acted by the Board within 30 days after it is filed
accompanied by all required information in support as provided in §
151.18(B), a certificate of appropriateness shall be issued. If the certificate
is issued, the application shall be processed in the same manner as
applications for building or demolition permits required by the city the
applicant may proceed with the work authorized by the certificate.
   (C)   If the Board denies an application for a certificate of
appropriateness within 30 days after it is filed, the certificate may not be
issued. The Board must state its reasons for the denial in writing, and must
advise the applicant. An application that has been denied may not be processed
as an application for a building, moving or demolition permit and does not
authorize any work by the applicant.
   (D)   The Board may grant an extension of the 30-day limit prescribed by
divisions (B) and (C) if the applicant agrees.
('71 Code, Ch. 158, § 9) (Ord. 40-1984, passed 11-14-84)
§ 151.20 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   A historic building or structure or any part of or appurtenance to
such a building or structure, including stone walls, fences, light fixtures,
steps and paving may be moved, reconstructed, altered, or maintained only in a
manner that will preserve the historical and architectural character of the
building, structure or appurtenance.
   (B)   A historic building may be relocated to another site only if it is
shown that preservation on its current site is inconsistent with division (A)
of this section.
('71 Code, Ch. 158, § 10) (Ord. 40-1984, passed 11-14-84)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.21 VISUAL COMPATIBILITY; FACTORS.
   (A)   The construction of a new building or structure, and the moving,
reconstruction, alteration, major maintenance or repair involving a change
conspicuously affecting the external appearance of any nonhistoric building,
structure or appurtenance within the primary area must be generally of a
design, form, proportion, mass, configuration, building material, texture and
location on a lot compatible with buildings in the historic district
(particularly with buildings designated as historic) and with the square and
places to which it is visually related. ('71 Code, Ch. 158, § 12)
   (B)   Within the primary area of the historic district, new buildings and
structures, as well as buildings, structures, and appurtenances that are moved,
reconstructed, materially altered or repaired, must be visually compatible with
building, squares, and places to which they are visually related generally in
terms of the following visual compatibility factors:
      (1)   Height. The height of proposed buildings must be visually
compatible with adjacent buildings.
      (2)   Proportion of building's front facade. The relationship of the
width of a building to the height of the front elevation must be visually
compatible to buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually related.
      (3)   Proportion of openings within the facility. The relationship of the
width of the windows to the height of windows in a building must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually related.
      (4)   Rhythm of solids to voids in front facades. The relationship of
solids to voids in the front facade of a building must be visually compatible
with buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually related.
      (5)   Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. The relationship of a
building to the open space between it and adjoining buildings must be visually
compatible to the buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually
related.
      (6)   Rhythm of entrances and porch projections. The relationship of
entrances and porch projections to sidewalks of a building must be visually
compatible to the buildings, squares, and places to which it is visually
related.
      (7)   Relationship of materials, texture and color. The relationship of
the materials, texture and color of the facade of a building must be visually
compatible with the materials used in the buildings to which it is visually
related.
      (8)   Roof shapes. The roof shape of a building must be visually
compatible with the buildings to which it is visually related.
      (9)   Walls of continuity. Appurtenances of a building, such as walls,
wrought iron fences, evergreen landscape masses, and building facades, must
form cohesive walls of enclosure along the street, if necessary to insure
visual compatibility of the building to the buildings, squares and places to
which it is visually related.
      (10)    Scale of a building. The size of a building, and the building
mass of a building in relation to open spaces, windows, door openings, porches
and balconies must be visually compatible with the buildings, squares and
places to which it is visually related.
      (11)    Directional expression of front elevation. A building must be
visually compatible with the buildings, squares, and places to which it is
visually related in its directional character, including vertical character,
horizontal character, or nondirectional character.
('71 Code, Ch. 158, § 13)
(Ord. 40-1984, passed 11-14-84)
Penalty, see § 151.99
§ 151.35 ESTABLISHMENT; ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   There is hereby, established the Historic District Review Board. The
Board of Review shall consist of five voting members. The voting members shall
be appointed by the Mayor of the city, subject to the approval of the Common
Council. In making appointments, the Mayor shall attempt to appoint individuals
with professional credentials in the disciplines of architectural history,
planning and historic preservation, to the extent that those professionals are
available in the city. Members shall serve for an initial term of three years.
Members shall be limited to serving their initial term and one consecutive
additional three-year term. However, in order for terms to be staggered, the
initial terms of members shall be as follows: one member appointed to a one-
year term, one member appointed to a two-year term, and the balance of the
members appointed to three-year terms.
   (B)   The Mayor may, with the approval of the Common Council appoint
advisory members as the Common Council considers appropriate.
   (C)   The Historic District Review Board may act without the services of an
administrator.
   (D)   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation but may be paid
for reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duty.
   (E)   The Board shall elect from its membership a President, Vice-President
and Secretary who shall serve for one year, and who may be re-elected no more
than two one-year terms for the same position. The Board shall adopt rules for
the transaction of its business not inconsistent with this chapter. The rules
must include the time and place of regular meetings, and a procedure for the
calling of special meetings. All meetings of the Board must be open to the
public and a public record shall be kept of the Board's resolutions,
proceedings and actions.
   (F)   The Board shall hold regular meetings, at least monthly, except when
it has no business pending and then no less than quarterly.
   (G)   Each official of the city who has responsibility for building
inspection, building permits, planning or zoning shall provide any technical,
administrative and clerical assistance as may be requested by the Board.
('71 Code, Ch. 158, § 1) (Ord. 40-1984, passed 11-14-84; Am. Ord. 29-1985,
passed 4-22-85; Am. Ord. 15-2009, passed 12-14-09)
§ 151.36 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Review shall be concerned with those elements of
development, redevelopment, rehabilitation and preservation that affect visual
quality in a historic district. However, the Board may not consider details of
design, interior arrangements or building features, if those details,
arrangements or features, are not subject to public view, and may not make any
requirement except for the purpose of preventing development, alteration or
demolition in the historic district obviously incongruous with the historic
district.
   (B)   The Board shall conduct, or cause to be conducted, a survey to
identify historic buildings, structures, and places located within the city;
however, neither the survey nor any other action of the Board shall affect any
property not located within the city limits of the city.
   (C)   Based on its survey, the Board shall submit to the Common Council a
map describing the boundaries of a historic district or districts. A district
may be limited to the boundaries of a property containing a single building,
structure or site. The map may divide a district into primary and secondary
areas.
   (D)   The Board shall also classify and designate on the map all buildings
and structures within each historic district described on the map. Buildings
and structures shall be classified as historic or nonhistoric, in the following
manner:
      (1)   (a)   Historic buildings and structures must possess identified
historic or architectural merit of a degree warranting their preservation. They
may be further classified as:
            1.   Outstanding;
            2.   Significant — notable;
            3.   Contributing — reference; and
            4.   Noncontributing.
         (b)   In lieu of the further classifications set forth in division (D)
(1)(a)1. through 4., the Board may devise its own system of further
classification of historic buildings and structures.
      (2)   Nonhistoric. Those buildings and structures not classified on the
map historic.
('71 Code, Ch. 158, § 3) (Ord. 40-1984, passed 11-14-84)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   A person commits a Class B infraction, who:
   (A)   Begins work in violation of §
151.18;
   (B)   Moves, reconstructs, alters, or maintains an historic building or
structure in violations of §
151.20;
   (C)   Fails to maintain a historic building as required by §
151.21(A);
   (D)   Performs any construction, reconstruction, moving, alteration, major
maintenance, or repair in violation §
151.21(B); or
   (E)   Demolishes an historic building in violation of § 151.22;
('71 Code, Ch. 158, § 14) (Ord. 40-1984, passed 11-14-84)
CHAPTER 152: HOUSING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Definitions
Minimum Standards for Dwellings and Dwelling Units
   
152.15   Compliance required
   
152.16   Plumbing required
   
152.17   Rubbish and garbage facilities
   
152.18   Means of egress
   
152.19   Electrical outlets
   
152.20   Temperature; window area
   
152.21   Height and floor area
   
152.22   Access to certain rooms
   
152.23   Sleeping room prohibited in cellar
   
152.24   Light, ventilation and heating
Maintenance and Use Requirements
   
152.35   Maintenance; general requirements
   
152.36   Restricting certain uses
   
152.37   Responsibilities of owner and occupant
   
152.38   Rubbish and garbage disposal
   
152.39   Extermination responsibilities
Rooming Houses and Units
   
152.55   Compliance required; exceptions
   
152.56   Licensing requirements
   
152.57   Plumbing facilities
   
152.58   Linen, towels and bedding
   
152.59   Floor areas
   
152.60   Means of egress
   
152.61   Sanitary maintenance
   
152.62   Off-street parking
   
152.63   Application to hotels; exceptions
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partly underground, but having
less than two-thirds of its floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of
the adjoining ground.
   CITY INSPECTOR. The City Inspector of the city or his authorized
representative.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground, and
having two-thirds or more of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground.
   DWELLING. Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used
for living or sleeping by human occupants; temporary housing, as hereinafter
defined, shall not be regarded as a dwelling.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places, by removing or making inaccessible
materials which may serve as their food, by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved by
the Health Officer.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or other enclosed floor space used or intended to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms,
water closet compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer of the city or his duly authorized
representative.
   INFESTATION. The presence within or around a dwelling of any insects,
rodents or other pests.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in or having actual possession of a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are offered for rent.
   ORDINARY MINIMUM WINTER CONDITIONS. The temperature which is 15° F. above
the lowest recorded temperature for the previous ten-year period.
   OWNER.  
      (1)   Any person who alone or jointly or severally with others:
         (a)   Shall have legal title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof; provided, that whenever the
dwelling or dwelling unit is subject to conditional sales contract, lease with
option to purchase, or any other form of written contract under the terms of
which any person is entitled to a conveyance of legal title upon payment of a
specified sum, the term OWNER shall mean the person who shall have such a
contractual right, rather than the person who is holding the legal title; or
         (b)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling or dwelling
unit as executor, executrix, trustee, receiver or guardian of the owner as
defined in division (1)(a) of this definition. Any person thus representing the
actual owner shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this housing code
to the same extent as if he were the owner.
      (2)   Any person acting as the agent of the owner shall not be construed
to be the owner within the terms of this housing code, but shall be bound to
notify the owner, by means of a registered letter addressed to the owner at his
last known address, of any order or notice to be issued by the Health Officer
or City Inspector relating to the property of the owner.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, corporation, association or
partnership.
   PLUMBING. Includes all of the following supplied facilities and equipment:
Gas pipes, gas-burning equipment, water pipes, garbage disposal equipment,
waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs,
shower baths, installed clothes washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents
and any other supplied fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer
or gas lines.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of room forming a single habitable unit used
or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or eating
purposes.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to five or
more persons who are not husband or wife, sister or brother, son or daughter or
father or mother of the owner or operator.
   RUBBISH. Combustible or noncombustible waste materials, except garbage; the
term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other
combustible material, paper, rages, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber,
leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, leaves, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass, crockery or dust.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by or under the control of the
owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days.
   (B)   Whenever the words DWELLING, DWELLING UNIT, ROOMING HOUSE, ROOMING
UNIT or PREMISES are used in this housing code, they shall be construed as
though they were followed by the words OR ANY PART THEREOF.
('71 Code, § 156.01)
MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR DWELLINGS AND DWELLING UNITS
§ 152.15 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking or
eating therein, which does not comply with the requirements of this subchapter.
('71 Code, § 156.15)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.16 PLUMBING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink in good working
condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system approved by the
Plumbing Inspector.
   (B)   Every dwelling unit (except as otherwise permitted under division (C)
hereof) shall contain a room which affords privacy to a person within that room
and which is equipped with a flush water closet and a lavatory basin in good
working condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system approved
by the Health Officer or the City Inspector.
   (C)   The occupants of two or more dwelling units, but not to exceed eight
persons in total number, other than in a single-family unit, may share a single
flush water closet, a single lavatory basin and a single bathtub or shower.
   (D)   The requirements of divisions (A), (B) and (C) of this section shall
not apply in cases where sewer and water facilities are not available within a
distance of 100 feet of the lot on which the dwelling unit is located.
   (E)   Each dwelling unit shall contain either a tub or shower therein and
shall have both hot and cold running water piped to that dwelling.
('71 Code, § 156.16)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.17 RUBBISH AND GARBAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall be supplied with adequate rubbish storage
facilities.
   (B)   Every dwelling unit shall have adequate garbage disposal facilities or
garbage storage containers.
('71 Code, § 156.17)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.18 MEANS OF EGRESS.
   Every dwelling unit shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress leading to
safe and open space at ground level, as required by the laws of this state and
the applicable provisions of this code or any other ordinances of this city.
('71 Code, § 156.18)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.19 ELECTRICAL OUTLETS.
   Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum number of electrical outlets and
shall have at least two wall outlets, or one wall outlet and one ceiling
fixture. The kitchen, bath or utility room shall contain one fixture or wall
outlet.
('71 Code, § 156.19)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.20 TEMPERATURE; WINDOW AREA.
   Each dwelling unit shall maintain, and be equipped to maintain, a minimum
temperature of 68° to 70° under ordinary weather conditions and, in addition
thereto, shall have a minimum window area of each habitable room of at least
10% of the floor area, and each of such windows installed therein should be
easily openable to the extent of 45% of its area.
('71 Code, § 156.20)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.21 HEIGHT AND FLOOR AREA.
   Each dwelling unit shall be built with a minimum ceiling height of seven
feet and a minimum sleeping room floor area of at least 70 square feet. In the
event a room is occupied, or is intended to be occupied, by more than one
person, it shall contain a minimum floor space of 50 square feet per person.
Each dwelling shall contain at least 150 square feet of floor area for the
first occupant, and 100 additional square feet for each additional occupant.
('71 Code, § 156.21)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.22 ACCESS TO CERTAIN ROOMS.
   (A)   No dwelling or dwelling unit, containing two or more sleeping rooms,
shall have those room arrangements that access to a bathroom or water closet
compartment intended for use by occupants of more than one sleeping room can be
had only by going through another sleeping room; nor shall room arrangements be
such that access to a sleeping room can be had only by going through another
sleeping room or a bathroom or water closet compartment.
   (B)   Occupants of not more than two dwelling units, other than in a single-
family unit, may share a single three-fixture bathroom.
('71 Code, § 156.22)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.23 SLEEPING ROOM PROHIBITED IN CELLAR.
   No rooms used for sleeping purposes shall be permitted in a cellar of a
dwelling.
('71 Code, § 156.23)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.24 LIGHT, VENTILATION AND HEATING.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not
comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight which
can be easily opened, or such other device as will adequately ventilate the
room.
   (B)   Every bathroom and water closet compartment shall comply with the
light and ventilation requirements for habitable rooms contained in division
(A) hereof, except that no window or skylight shall be required in adequately
ventilated bathrooms and water closet compartments equipped with a ventilation
system approved by the Health Officer or City Inspector.
   (C)   Every dwelling shall have heating facilities which are properly
installed and are maintained in safe and good working condition.
   (D)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling shall be
adequately lighted in conformity with the National Electrical Code.
   (E)   Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be used for
ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might provide an entry
for rodents, shall be supplied with a screen or such other device as will
effectively prevent their entrance.
('71 Code, § 156.30)
Penalty, see § 152.99
MAINTENANCE AND USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 152.35 MAINTENANCE; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not
comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Every ceiling and roof shall be reasonably weathertight and watertight
and shall be kept in good repair.
   (B)   Every window, exterior door and basement hatchway shall be reasonably
weathertight, watertight and rodentproof.
   (C)   Every inside and outside stair, every porch and every appurtenance
thereto shall be so constructed as to be safe to use and capable of supporting
any load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon, and shall be kept in
sound condition and good repair.
   (D)   Every plumbing fixture and water waste pipe shall be properly
installed and maintained in good sanitary working condition.
   (E)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is
required under this housing code shall be so constructed or installed that it
will function safely and effectively.
   (F)   No owner shall occupy or let to any other occupant any vacant dwelling
unit unless it is clean, sanitary and fit for human occupancy.
('71 Code, § 156.35)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.36 RESTRICTING CERTAIN USES.
   (A)   No basement or cellar space shall be used as a dwelling unit unless
the floor and walls are reasonably impervious to leakage of underground and
surface runoff water and insulated against dampness.
   (B)   Each basement or cellar room used as a dwelling unit shall have at
least one window which can easily be opened, or such other device as will
adequately ventilate the room when approved by the Health Officer or City
Inspector.
   (C)   Every window which is below the grade of the ground adjoining that
window shall have a lightwell or areaway.
('71 Code, § 156.36)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.37 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNER AND OCCUPANT.
   (A)   Every owner of a dwelling containing more than four dwelling units
shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition the
shared or public area of the dwelling and premises thereof.
('71 Code, § 156.37)
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep in a clean
and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit and premises
thereof which he occupies and controls.
('71 Code, § 156.38)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.38 RUBBISH AND GARBAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all his
rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in the rubbish container
required by §
152.17(A).
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all his
garbage and any other organic waste which might provide food for rodents, in a
clean and sanitary manner, by placing it in the garbage disposal facilities or
garbage storage containers required by §
152.17(B).
('71 Code, § 156.38)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.39 EXTERMINATION RESPONSIBILITIES.
   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall be
responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests
therein or on the premises. Every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling
containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for extermination
whenever his dwelling unit is the only one infested. Notwithstanding the
foregoing provisions of this section, whenever infestation is caused by failure
of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a rat-proof or reasonably insect-proof
condition, extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner.
('71 Code, § 156.40)
Penalty, see § 152.99
ROOMING HOUSES AND UNITS
§ 152.55 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall operate a rooming house, or shall occupy or let to another
for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming house, except in compliance with
the provisions of every section of this housing code, except the provisions of
§
152.24 and §§
152.35 through
152.39.
('71 Code, § 156.45)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.56 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a rooming house of five or more rooming units
unless he holds a valid rooming house license issued by the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer in the name of the operator and for the specific dwelling unit.
The operator shall apply to the office of the City Inspector for a permit for
that license, which shall be issued by the office of the Clerk-Treasurer upon
compliance by the operator, to the satisfaction of the City Inspector, with the
applicable provisions of this housing code. This license shall be displayed in
a conspicuous place within the rooming house at all times. No such license
shall be transferable. Every person holding a license shall give notice in
writing to the office of the Clerk-Treasurer and the City Inspector within 24
hours after having sold, transferred, given away or otherwise disposed of
ownership of, interest in or control of any rooming house. The notice shall
include the name and address of the person succeeding to the ownership or
control of that rooming house. Every rooming house license shall expire at the
end of one year following its date of issuance, unless sooner suspended or
revoked as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Any person whose application for a permit to obtain a license to
operate a rooming house, as provided in division (A) hereof, has been denied
may request and shall be granted a hearing on the
matter.
   (C)   Whenever, upon inspection of any rooming house, the Health Officer or
the City Inspector finds that conditions or practices exist which are in
violation of any provision of this housing code, the Health Officer or the City
Inspector, as the case may be, shall give notice in writing to the operator of
the rooming house that unless those conditions or practices are corrected
within a reasonable period, to be determined by the Health Officer or the City
Inspector respectively, the operator's rooming house license will be suspended.
At the end of such period, the Health Officer or the City Inspector, as the
case may be, shall reinspect that rooming house, and if he finds that those
conditions or practices have not been corrected, he shall give notice in
writing to the operator that the latter's license has been suspended. Upon
receipt of notice of suspension, the operator shall immediately cease operation
of that rooming house, and no person shall occupy for sleeping or living
purposes any rooming unit therein.
   (D)   Any person whose license to operate a rooming house has been
suspended, or who has received notice from the Health Officer or the City
Inspector that his license is to be suspended unless existing conditions or
practices at his rooming house are corrected, may request and shall be granted
a hearing on the matter before the Board of Health or the Board of Public Works
and Safety, as the case may be; provided, that if no petition for the hearing
is filed within ten days following the day on which the license was suspended,
that license shall be deemed to have been automatically revoked.
('71 Code, § 156.46)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.57 PLUMBING FACILITIES.
   At least one flush water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower,
properly connected to a water and sewer system approved by the Plumbing
Inspector of the City Inspector's office, and in good working condition, shall
be supplied for each ten persons or fraction thereof resisting within a rooming
house, including members of the operator's family whenever they share the use
of the facilities, provided that in a rooming house where rooms are let only to
males, flush urinals may be substituted for not more than one-half of the
required number of water closets. All such facilities shall be so located
within the dwelling as to be reasonable accessible from a common hall or
passageway to all persons sharing such facilities. Every lavatory basin and
bathtub or shower shall be supplied with hot water at all times.
('71 Code, § 156.47)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.58 LINEN, TOWELS AND BEDDING.
   The operator of every rooming house shall change supplied bed linen and
towels therein at least once each week ln each room which is occupied, and
prior to the letting of any room to any occupant. The operator shall be
responsible for the maintenance of all supplied bedding in a clean and sanitary
manner.
('71 Code, § 156.48)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.59 FLOOR AREAS.
   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes in a rooming house by one person
shall contain at least 60 square feet of floor space, and every room occupied
for sleeping purposes by more than one person shall contain at least 40 square
feet for each occupant therein over 12 years of age.
('71 Code, § 156.49)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.60 MEANS OF EGRESS.
   Every rooming unit shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress leading to
safe and open space at ground level, as required by the law of this state and
this city.
('71 Code, § 156.50)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.61 SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   The operator of every rooming house shall be responsible for the sanitary
maintenance of all walls, floors, and ceiling, and for maintenance of a
sanitary condition in every other part of the rooming house, and shall be
further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire premises where
the entire structure or building is leased or occupied by the operator.
('71 Code, § 156.51)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.62 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   The owner or operator of a rooming house shall provide one off-street
parking place for every rooming unit.
('71 Code, § 156.30) (Ord. 27-1986, passed 8-25-86)
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.63 APPLICATION TO HOTELS; EXCEPTIONS.
   Every provision of this housing code which applies to rooming houses shall
also apply to hotels, except to the extent that any such provision may be found
in conflict with the laws of this state or with the lawful regulations of any
state board or agency.
('71 Code, § 156.52)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any failure to comply with any provision of this housing code shall
constitute a violation. Any person who shall violate any provision of this
housing code shall be guilty of a infraction and, upon conviction, shall be
fined not less than $10 nor more than $300. Each violation shall constitute a
separate offense, and each day's failure to comply with any such provision
shall constitute a separate violation.
('71 Code, § 156.99)
CHAPTER 153: RESERVED
CHAPTER 154: MANUFACTURED HOUSING
Section
   
154.01   Intent
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Standards; permitted placement
   
154.04   Placement with permit
   
154.05   Structural alteration due to its integral design
   
154.06   Temporary use permit
   
154.07   Duration of permit
   
154.08   Utility requirements
   
154.09   Permit fee
   
154.10   Appeal
   
154.11   Homes in violation subject to removal; injunctive relief
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this chapter to encourage provision of alternative
modest income housing in general residential areas by permitting the use of
certain manufactured homes, as defined herein, in all districts in which
similar dwellings constructed on site are permitted, subject to the
requirements set forth herein to assure acceptable similarity in exterior
appearance between such manufactured homes and dwellings that have been or
might be constructed under these and other lawful regulations on adjacent or
nearby lots in the same district.
(Ord. 20-92, passed - - )
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXPANDO ROOM. An expandable manufactured housing unit.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit fabricated on or after June 15, 1976, in
an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the building
site, bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with the Federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code or Indiana Public
Law 360, Acts of 1971, as promulgated by the Indiana Administrative Building
Code.
(IC 36-7-4-1106).
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS CODE. Title IV of the
1974 Housing and Community Development Act (42 U.S.C 5401 et seq.), as amended
(previously known as the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety Act),
rules and regulations adopted thereunder, which include HUD approved
information supplied by the home manufacturer and regulations and
interpretations of said code by the Indiana Administrative Council.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable structure built prior to June 15, 1976, the
effective date for the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety Act of 1974,
larger than 320 square feet, and designed to be used as a year-round
residential dwelling.
   ONE AND TWO FAMILY DWELLING CODE, INDIANA. The mandatory statewide building
code adopted by the Indiana  Administrative Building Council for one and two
family dwellings.
   PUBLIC LAW THROUGH 60, ACTS OF 1971. Enabling legislation requiring the
Indiana Administrative Building Council to adopt rules and regulations for the
construction, repair or maintenance of factory constructed one or two family
residential dwellings.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
      (1)   Includes:
         (a)   Any motor home or other self-contained camper.
         (b)   Any camper slip-ons where the camper backs are higher than the
roofline of the cab of the truck.
         (c)   Any mobile home, trailer, or fifth-wheel trailer.
         (d)   Any pop-up camper/tent trailer or other similar recreational
portable or transportable facility or conveyance.
      (2)   The following vehicles shall be treated in the same manner as
recreation vehicles:
         (a)   Any vehicle that is included in the Indiana Code as being
defined as commercial.
         (b)   Any vehicle that has commercial signs or advertising or
commercial equipment visible.
         (c)   Any private or public school or church bases.
         (d)   Utility, storage or U-Haul type trailers.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT. A device for permitting a use within a district
other than a principally permitted use.
(Ord. 20-92, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 12-2020, passed 10-26-20)
§ 154.03 STANDARDS; PERMITTED PLACEMENT.
   (A)   Mobile homes shall be permitted within the city only after receiving a
special exception permit from the City Council. Special exception permit forms
may be obtained from the office of the City Inspector. Fee for filing of
special exception requests shall be $50.
   (B)   (1)   Any recreational vehicle that could be operated under its own
power or can be towed behind another vehicle that is traditionally used for
campground or other temporary location or recreational purposes shall be
required to obtain a special exception permit for use within the city unless
used at a properly zoned RV park or court.
      (2)   A special exception permit for any such recreational vehicle shall
be for a temporary period of time. No owner of real property shall permit a
recreational vehicle to be located on their property in use for either long- or
short-term habitation.
      (3)   Any owner found in violation will receive a violation notice and
have ten days to remove the recreational vehicle used for human habitation.
Recreational vehicle moved to a different parcel within the city limits is
still in violation under the ten day violation policy. The owner will be fined
$250 per day for each day of violation.
      (4)   A special exception permit will be permissible if the property
owner is temporarily living in such a recreational vehicle while actively doing
repairs on their primary place of residence so long as the primary place of
residence is located on or adjacent to the home of the permittee.
      (5)   Recreational vehicles within the city may not be powered by
generators, extension cords, public power sources or be connected to sanatory
sewers or public drinking water for purposes of full or part time habitation.
      (6)   Any recreational vehicle deemed unsafe or unfit for human
habitation, dilapidated or detrimental to the neighborhood may be subject to
condemnation and removal at owners’ expense.
(Ord. 20-92, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 13-2008, passed 9-22-08; Am. Ord. 16-2008,
passed 10-14-08; Am. Ord. 12-2020, passed 10-26-20)
§ 154.04 PLACEMENT WITH PERMIT.
   Mobile homes shall be permitted within the city only after receiving a
special exception permit from the City Council. Special exception permit forms
may be obtained from the office of the City Inspector. Fee for filing of
special exception requests shall be $50.
(Ord. 20-92, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 13-2008, passed 9-22-08; Am. Ord. 16-2008,
passed 10-14-08)
§ 154.05 STRUCTURAL ALTERATION DUE TO ITS INTEGRAL DESIGN.
   Any structural alteration or modification of a manufactured or mobile home
after it is placed on the site must be approved by the City Building Inspector
or his designee.
(Ord. 20-92, passed - - )
§ 154.06 TEMPORARY USE PERMIT.
   Subject to conditions, fees and standards otherwise required in the Zoning
Ordinance, a temporary use permit shall be issued:
   (A)   To an applicant in the process of building a site built dwelling to
locate a manufactured or mobile home on a building lot during the course of
construction of the dwelling;
   (B)   Such permit shall not be issued until after a building permit for the
dwelling has been issued;
   (C)   To an applicant to use a manufactured or mobile home as a caretaker's
quarters or construction office at a job site;
   (D)   To an applicant whose own health or the health of another necessitates
care, and where the facts show that an unnecessary hardship would occur if not
permitted to locate a manufactured home adjacent to the residence of one who is
able to provide such care or in need of such care.
(Ord. 20-92, passed - - )
§ 154.07 DURATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Temporary permit. A temporary use permit may be issued, at the
discretion of the City Council for a period not to exceed two years. The
temporary permit may be renewed for an additional one-year period upon showing
of good cause and with permission to do so. However, at the discretion of the
City Council, a temporary use permit may be issued to an applicant for a health
or age related circumstance for a period coterminous with the health or age
related circumstance.
   (B)   Permit expiration. At the time the temporary permit expires, the
manufactured or mobile home and all appurtenances shall be removed from the
property within 90 days.
(Ord. 20-92, passed - - )
§ 154.08 UTILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   Manufactured or mobile homes used for temporary uses shall have an approved
water supply, sewage disposal system, and utility connections, where
appropriate, and at the discretion of the City Council.
(Ord. 20-92, passed - - )
§ 154.09 PERMIT FEE.
   A temporary use permit shall be issued by the City Clerk-Treasurer upon
approval of the City Council. The fee shall be $50 and in addition to all other
required permits for utilities and sewage disposal systems.
(Ord. 20-92, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 13-2008, passed 9-22-08; Am. Ord. 16-2008,
passed 10-14-08)
§ 154.10 APPEAL.
   An action to review any order, a requirement, decision, or determination
made by the City Council shall be made to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(IC 36-7-4-919) (Ord. 20-92, passed - - )
§ 154.11 HOMES IN VIOLATION SUBJECT TO REMOVAL; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   (A)   A home, sited upon property in violation of this chapter, shall be
subject to removal from such property. However, the home owner must be given a
reasonable opportunity, to bring the property into compliance before action for
removal can be taken. If action finally is taken by the appropriate authority
to bring compliance, the expenses involved may be made a lien against the
property.
   (B)   The City Council may institute a suit in an appropriate court for
injunctive relief to cause such violation to be prevented, abated or removed.
(Ord. 20-92, passed - - )
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Each day of noncompliance with the provisions of this chapter constitutes a
separate and distinct ordinance violation. Judgment of up to $100 per day may
be entered for a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 20-92, passed - - )
CHAPTER 155: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Section
Improvement Location Permit
   
155.01   Compliance; exceptions
   
155.02   Application for permit; site plan; fee
   
155.03   Issuance of permit
   
155.04   Appeal
   
155.05   Review of decision
   
155.06   Enforcement
Thoroughfare Plan
   
155.20   Title
   
155.21   Definitions
   
155.22   Thoroughfare maps and drawing
   
155.23   Designation of thoroughfares
   
155.24   Opening or widening of streets
   
155.25   Location of streets
   
155.26   Consideration by public agencies
   
155.27   Issuance of permits
   
155.28   Street Improvement Program
   
155.29   Thoroughfare Fund
   
155.30   Authority for procedure
   
155.31   Method of procedure; payments by city
   
155.32   Priority of thoroughfare improvements
   
155.33   Continuing authority of Commission
   
155.34   Amendments
IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT
§ 155.01 COMPLIANCE; EXCEPTIONS.
   Within the jurisdictional area of the city, no structure, improvement or use
of land may be altered, changed, place, erected or located on platted or
unplatted lands, unless the structure, improvement or use, and its location,
conform with the master plan of the city, and an improvement location permit
for that structure, improvement or use has been issued by the County Area Plan
Commission.
('71 Code, § 131.01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.02 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; SITE PLAN; FEE.
   Every application for an improvement location permit shall be accompanied by
a site plan, drawn to scale, showing the location of the structure, improvement
or use to be altered, changed, placed, erected or located, the dimensions of
the lot to be improved; the size of yards and open spaces, existing and
proposed streets and alleys adjoining or within the lot, and the manner in
which the location is to be improved. Application for an improvement location
permit shall be accompanied by a fee of $5.
('71 Code, § 131.01) (Am. Ord. 45-82, passed - -82)
§ 155.03 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The County Area Plan Commission shall issue a zoning use permit upon written
application, when the proposed structure, improvement or use and its location
conform in all respects to the master plan for the city.
('71 Code, § 131.02)
§ 155.04 APPEAL.  
   Any decision of the County Area Plan Commission concerning the issuance of
an improvement location permit may be appealed to the County Board of Zoning
Appeals when the decision in question involves a requirement of the zoning
code. By any person claiming to be adversely affected by the decision.
('71 Code, § 131.04)
§ 155.05 REVIEW OF DECISION.
   A decision of the County Area Plan Commission may be reviewed by certiorari
procedure as provided for the appeal of zoning cases from the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
('71 Code, § 131.05)
§ 155.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   Action on the violation of any provision of this chapter and the right of
injunction against a violation shall be as provided by IC 36-7-4-100 et seq.
('71 Code, § 131.06)
THOROUGHFARE PLAN
§ 155.20 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Thoroughfare Plan, an
element of the Master Plan.
('71 Code, § 130.02)
§ 155.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A permanent service way providing a secondary means of access to
abutting lands.
   BOARD. The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city.
   COMMISSION. The County Area Plan Commission.
   CUL-DE-SAC, COURT or DEAD-END STREET. A short street having one end open to
traffic and being permanently terminated by a vehicle turn-around.
   IMPROVEMENT. The construction of a street or alley to its full thickness,
commencing at the subgrade according to the specifications contained in
Chapter 157. The placing of a new surface over an existing paved or closed
surface street or alley shall not be considered as an improvement but as
maintenance.
   JURISDICTION OF THE COMMISSION or JURISDICTIONAL AREA. The city and the
contiguous unincorporated territory shown on a map filed by the Commission with
the County Recorder.
   MASTER PLAN. The complete plan, or any of its parts, for the development of
the city and unincorporated jurisdiction prepared by the Commission and adopted
in accordance with Chapter 174, Acts of 1947 of the General Assembly, as is now
or may hereafter be in effect.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization or any
other group acting as a unit, as well as a natural person.
   PLACE. An open, unoccupied, officially designated space other than a street
or alley, permanently reserved for use as the principal means of access to
abutting property.
   PLAT. A map or chart indicating the subdivision or resubdivision of land,
intended to be filed for record.
   STREET. A right-of-way, other than an alley, dedicated or otherwise legally
established to the public use, usually affording the principal means of access
to abutting property. A STREET may be designated as a highway, thoroughfare,
parkway, boulevard, road, avenue, lane, drive or other appropriate name.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. A street designated for large volumes of traffic movement.
Certain arterial streets may be classed as limited access highways to which
entrances and exits are provided only at controlled intersections and access is
denied to abutting properties.
   STREET, FEEDER. A street planned to facilitate the collection of traffic
from residential streets, and to provide circulation within neighborhood areas
and convenient ways for traffic to reach arterial streets.
   STREET, RESIDENTIAL. A street designated primarily to provide access to
abutting properties, usually residential. Certain residential streets may be
marginal access streets parallel to arterial streets, which provide access to
abutting property and ways for traffic to reach access points on arterial
streets.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The part of the Master Plan, now or hereafter adopted
which includes a major street and highway plan and sets forth the location,
alignment, dimensions, identification and classification of existing and
proposed public streets, highways and other thoroughfares.
('71 Code, § 130.01)
§ 155.22 THOROUGHFARE MAPS AND DRAWING.
   The Thoroughfare Plan for the city consists of a map entitled, “Vincennes,
Indiana, Major Street and Highway Plan,” dated 1960, Sheet 1 of 3, and a map
entitled, “Vincennes, Indiana, Jurisdictional Area, Major Street and Highway
Plan,” dated 1960, Sheet 2 of 3, which show the locations of existing and
proposed streets by type within the city and in the area outside of the city
within the jurisdiction of the County Area Plan Commission, and a drawing
entitled, “Typical Thoroughfare Cross Sections, Vincennes, Indiana,” dated
1960, Sheet 3 of 3, which shows cross sections for the various types of streets
in the plans. The thoroughfare plan maps are declared to be a part of this
chapter, and notations, references and other details shown therein are as much
a part of this chapter as if they were fully described in the text hereof.
('71 Code, § 130.03)
§ 155.23 DESIGNATION OF THOROUGHFARES.
   The thoroughfares shown in the thoroughfare plan are classified as to width
and type in accordance with their functions as parts of the major street and
highway system, and are designated as arterial, feeder and residential streets
as shown in the Thoroughfare Plan. These streets are to be provided with the
right-of-way widths shown in the Thoroughfare Plan, and are to be improved as
required by
Chapter 157 which provides for the control of the subdivision of land.
('71 Code, § 130.04)
§ 155.24 OPENING OR WIDENING OF STREETS.
   Whenever a street classified in the Thoroughfare Plan is to be platted as a
part of a subdivision, the required right-of-way width for that street shall be
as specified in the Thoroughfare Plan, provided that where a street borders a
tract of land to be subdivided, the owner of the land shall be required to plat
only one-half of the right-of-way designated for that street, measured at 90°
to the centerline thereof.
('71 Code, § 130.05)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.25 LOCATION OF STREETS.
   (A)   Wherever the location of a street is indicated in the Thoroughfare
Plan as following an existing road or street, or a section or half-section or
other established property line, the location of the street shall conform to
that location; however, a street lying wholly within a subdivision, and not
designated as following an existing road or established property line, may be
varied in its alignment when the variance promotes the plan of a neighborhood
development unit in accordance with good site planning principles, and if an
alignment provides for the continuity of traffic movement.
   (B)   Wherever the location of a street is indicated in the thoroughfare
plan as following an irregular alignment, or a revised alignment, or is not
referenced to an established line, it shall follow the alignment shown in the
Plan. The alignment shall be subject to a detailed survey which may be made by
the Area County Plan Commission or other public agencies, of by the owners of
land to be subdivided if required by the Commission. The survey for the street
shall be subject to the approval of the commission prior to the dedication of
the street.
('71 Code, § 130.06)
§ 155.26 CONSIDERATION BY PUBLIC AGENCIES.
   The Common Council and the Board of Public Works and Safety shall be guided
by and give consideration to the general policy and pattern of street
development set out in the Thoroughfare Plan in the authorization,
construction, alteration, relocation or abandonment of the public streets,
highways and related structures.
('71 Code, § 130.07)
§ 155.27 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   Any permits authorized by the city, including but not limited to improvement
location permits, permitting the erection, alteration or relocation of
structures and other improvements within the jurisdiction of the County Area
Plan Commission, shall be issued only if, in addition to satisfying the
requirements of this code and any applicable ordinances of the city, the
proposed street right-of-way as set forth by this subchapter will be protected
from encroachment. In this instance, the proposed street right-of way lines
will be considered as the front line of lots and tracts bordering that street.
('71 Code, § 130.08)
§ 155.28 STREET IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized to use funds available
for street improvement purposes to participate with the owners of land abutting
streets within the city in the improvement of those streets in accordance with
the requirements of the Board of Public Works and Safety and the standards for
street improvements established in
Chapter 157, when funds are available for that purpose. For any such
participation project, the Board of Public Works and Safety shall be governed
by the following policies:
   (A)   All alley and street intersections will be paved at city expense and
the cost of that work is not to be considered as a part of the city's share of
other street improvements.
   (B)   The cost of grading and excavating in connection with the improvements
of alleys and streets existing at the time of the passage of Ordinance 1091 is
to be considered a city expense and not as a part of the city's share of other
street and alley improvements.
   (C)   The cost of grading and excavating in connection with the improvement
of streets and alleys hereafter dedicated is not to be considered a part of the
improvement cost in which the city can participate.
   (D)   The city may participate to the extent of 50% of the cost of improving
an alley located in a business district as shown in the city zone map. The city
shall not participate in the cost of improving alleys other than those
indicated above.
   (E)   The amount of the participation by the city in the cost of street
improvements is indicated below as a percentage of the total of such cost, as
may be modified by proceeding statement, in accordance with the street
designation and width of surface to be improved, when such width conforms to
the recommended dimensions shown in Sheet 3, described in §
155.22. The width of surface improvement may include an integral curb and
gutter where required.
PERCENTAGE OF CITY PARTICIPATION IN COST OF STREET IMPROVEMENTS
(Within City Only)
Width of Improved Street or Thoroughfare Designation
Surfaces          Arterial Feeder  Residential
0 to 20 feet      0%       0%        0%
21 to 28 feet     50%      40%       30%
29 to 30 feet     54%      43%       32%
31 to 35 feet     58%      47%       36%
36 to 40 feet     62%      50%       40%
Over 40 feet      66%      53%       43%
 
('71 Code, § 130.09)
§ 155.29 THOROUGHFARE FUND.
   The Common Council may levy a tax annually of not to exceed $.15 on each
$100 of taxable property within the city for the purpose of a Thoroughfare
Fund, which, when collected, shall be kept separate from the other funds of the
city and shall be a continuing fund to be drawn upon the Board of Public Works
and Safety for work done under, or in furtherance of, or in carrying out a part
of the official Thoroughfare Plan.
('71 Code, § 130.10)
§ 155.30 AUTHORITY FOR PROCEDURE.
   In the carrying out of the project under the Thoroughfare Plan, the Board of
Public Works and Safety shall proceed, and shall have authority under the
provisions of Chapter 44, Acts of 1931 of the General Assembly, and all acts
amendatory thereto, and the method of procedure shall comply with the
provisions of an Act of the General Assembly of the State of Indiana, entitled
“An act concerning municipal corporations,” approved March 6, 1905, and all
acts amendatory thereof or supplemented thereto, except that the provision for
remonstrance of resident freeholders shall not apply. If it shall be determined
that property shall be assessed within a special district, the Board shall
determine the boundaries of that district.
('71 Code, § 130.11)
§ 155.31 METHOD OF PROCEDURE; PAYMENTS BY CITY.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety in the carrying out of any
project under the Thoroughfare Plan adopted by this chapter shall consider and
determine what proportionate part of the cost of that project, or of any
separate phase of improvement thereunder, shall be paid by the city out of the
Thoroughfare Fund, including any increase of damages ordered by any court on
appeal, as benefit to the city at large, and, at that time, shall determine the
amount, if any, of the total cost of any phase of improvement under those
projects, including damages awarded by the Board, which shall be assessed as
benefits upon the real estate within a special benefit district.
   (B)   In the event the cost of acquisition and the benefits assessed against
the city by reason of any project shall, at any time, be in excess of the
amount of money then standing to the credit of the Thoroughfare Fund of the
city, the Common Council shall have the power by ordinance to issue a bond in a
sum sufficient to pay for that benefit, or any part thereof, as it may deem
necessary, the same to be issued and sold in the same form and manner and with
the same rate of interest and with those maturities as are by law provided for
the issuance and sale of bonds of the city for the general purposes thereof,
and the proceeds of the sale of those bonds shall be deposited in, and credited
to, the Thoroughfare Fund, to be used in the payment for that cost of
acquisition and the benefits assessed against the city at large and any
increased damages which may be ordered paid by any court on appeal.
('71 Code, § 130.12)
§ 155.32 PRIORITY OF THOROUGHFARE IMPROVEMENTS.
   The County Area Plan Commission may recommend to the Board of Public Works
and Safety the order in which improvements made pursuant to this chapter and to
be paid for in whole or in part out of the Thoroughfare Fund shall be
undertaken and carried out; and when so made the Board of Public Works and
Safety shall not start or commence by resolution, or otherwise, any work,
appropriations or improvement pursuant to this subchapter, other than in the
order designated by that recommendation.
('71 Code, § 130.13)
§ 155.33 CONTINUING AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION.
   The County Area Plan Commission may:
   (A)   Determine lines for new, extended, widened or narrowed thoroughfares
in any portion of the area within the jurisdiction of the Commission.
   (B)   Certify to the Common Council the amended or additional plan under the
same procedure as established for the certification and approval of the
official Thoroughfare Plan.
('71 Code, § 130.14)
§ 155.34 AMENDMENTS.
   All amendments to this subchapter shall be in conformance with IC 36-7-4-100
et seq.
('71 Code, § 130.15)
CHAPTER 156: RENTAL HOUSING; RENTAL HOUSING CODE
Section
Rental Housing
   
156.01   Definitions
   
156.02   Purpose; rules of construction
   
156.03   Compliance required; application of subchapter
   
156.04   Registration of rental units required
   
156.05   Inspection
   
156.06   Occupancy permits
   
156.07   Retaliatory eviction prohibited
   
156.08   Violation
   
156.09   Rental Housing Officer
   
156.10   Rental Housing Quality Appeals Board
   
156.11   Civil enforcement
   
156.12   Variances for certain preexisting conditions
Rental Housing Code
   
156.25   Title
   
156.26   Scope
   
156.27   Intent
   
156.28   Other regulations
   
156.29   Application of building code
   
156.30   Existing remedies
   
156.31   Revenues
   
156.32   Existing structures
   
156.33   Enforcement authority
   
156.34   Duties and powers of Code Official
   
156.35   Notices and orders
   
156.36   Scope; tense and definition of terms
   
156.37   Environmental requirements
   
156.38   Premises conditions
   
156.39   Exterior structure
   
156.40   Interior structure
   
156.41   Light, ventilation and space requirements
   
156.42   Light
   
156.43   Ventilation
   
156.44   Minimum occupancy area requirements
   
156.45   Space requirements
   
156.46   Plumbing facilities and fixture requirements
   
156.47   Required facilities
   
156.48   Toilet rooms
   
156.49   Plumbing fixtures
   
156.50   Water system
   
156.51   Sewage system
   
156.52   Mechanical and electrical requirements
   
156.53   Heating facilities
   
156.54   Electrical facilities
   
156.55   Fire safety equipment
   
156.56   Means of egress
   
156.57   Accumulations and storage
   
156.58   Fire resistance ratings
   
156.59   Fire protection systems
   
156.60   Smoke detectors
   
156.61   Responsibilities of persons
   
156.62   Sanitary condition
   
156.63   Extermination
 
   
156.99   Penalty
§ 156.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT. Every person at least 18 years of age or younger if emancipated.
   CYCLE INSPECTION. The normal inspection of rental units on a two-year cycle.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   EXEMPTION . A rental unit shall not be inspected and no inspection fee
assessed if all of the following are met:
      (1)   The rental unit is:
         (a)   Managed by; or
         (b)   Part of a rental unit community that is managed by; a
professional real estate manager.
      (2)   During the previous 12 months, the rental unit has been inspected
or is part of a rental unit community that has been inspected by either of the
following:
         (a)   By or for:
            1.   The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development,
the Indiana Housing and Community Development Authority, or another federal or
state agency; or
            2.   A financial institution or insurance company authorized to do
business in Indiana.
         (b)   By an inspector who:
            1.   Is a registered architect;
            2.   Is a professional engineer; or
            3.   Satisfies qualifications for an inspector or rental units
prescribed by the city. The inspector may not be an employee of the owner or
landlord.
      (3)   A written inspection report of the inspection under division (2)
above has been issued to the owner or landlord of the rental unit or rental
unit community (as applicable) that verifies that the rental unit or rental
unit community is safe and habitable with respect to:
         (a)   An electrical supply and electrical systems;
         (b)   Plumbing and plumbing systems;
         (c)   Water supply, including hot water;
         (d)   Heating, ventilation, and air conditioning equipment in systems;
         (e)   Bathroom and toilet facilities;
         (f)   Doors, windows, stairways, and hallways;
         (g)   Functioning smoke detectors; and
         (h)   The structure in which a rental unit is located.
      (4)   The inspection report identified under division (3) above is
delivered to the city on or before the due date.
   HABITABLE ROOM.  Any room meeting the requirements of this code for
sleeping, living, or dining purposes excluding such enclosed places as closets,
pantries, bath or toilet rooms, hallways, laundries, storage places, utility
rooms and similar spaces.
   OTHER INSPECTION. Any other inspection conducted pursuant to this subchapter
other than a REGULAR INSPECTION, based upon a reasonable belief of
noncompliance for a complaint.
   ORGANIZATION. Includes a corporation, government, governmental subdivision
or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership or association, two or
more persons having a joint or common interest, and any other legal or
commercial entity.
   OWNER. Any person, agent, firm or corporation having a legal or equitable
interest in the property.
   PERSON. A corporation or copartnership as well as an individual.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land including the buildings or
structures thereon.
   RENTAL BUILDING. A building containing one or more rental units.
   RENTAL DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling unit in a residential premises covered by a
tenancy agreement.
   RENTAL HOUSING CODE. Sections
156.25 through
156.63 of this chapter.
   RENTAL UNIT. A rented dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   RENTAL UNIT COMMUNITY. One or more parcels of contiguous real property upon
which are located one or more structures containing rental units, which when
the combined total of all rental units in all purpose structures is five or
more rental units and the rental units are not occupied solely by the owner or
owner's family.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to five or
more persons who are not husband or wife, sister or brother, son or daughter or
father or mother of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   TENANT. Any person entitled to occupy a rental unit under a tenancy
agreement to the exclusion of others.
   TENANCY AGREEMENT. Includes all agreements, written, oral or implied, and
valid rules and regulations embodying the terms and conditions concerning the
use and occupancy of a rental unit and premises.
   TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY. Occupancy which is less than two weeks duration in the
same or similar units owned by the same owner.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92; Am. Ord. 30-92, passed 10-13-92; Am. Ord. 27-93,
passed 10-25-93; Am. Ord. 38-2015, passed 12-14-15)
§ 156.02 PURPOSE; RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   This subchapter shall be liberally construed and applied to promote its
underlying purpose, which is to encourage the maintenance and improvement of
the quality of rental housing in the city.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.03 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   No person shall occupy or maintain a rental unit within the city
unless in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   This subchapter applies to rental units located within the city,
including governmental or public agencies acting as landlords, but shall not
apply to the following arrangements unless the arrangements are created to
avoid the application of this chapter;
      (1)   Occupancy in KCARC Group Homes.
      (2)   Occupancy in federally subsidized and owned housing complexes which
have multiple on-site units and which are owned and maintained by the federal
government or a local housing authority. Scattered site section 8 housing is
covered by this subchapter.
      (3)   Occupancy in a residence hall operated by Vincennes University.
      (4)   Occupancy by a member of a fraternity or sorority authorized by
Vincennes University in the portion of a structure operated for the benefit of
the fraternity or sorority.
      (5)   Occupancy by the purchaser of a dwelling unit under a contract of
sale.
      (6)   Transient occupancy in hotel, motel or other similar lodgings.
      (7)   Owners who reside in a single-family dwelling unit but who wish to
lease to individuals or a family while they are absent from the city for short
periods of time, not to exceed one year, and who intend to return to their
single-family dwelling unit at the expiration of the lease period.
      (8)   Owners who occupy the premises and rent to no more than two
occupants. This does not apply to basements, attics, or garages which are used
as habitable spaces.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.04 REGISTRATION OF RENTAL UNITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each owner of real estate within the city using real estate for the
purpose of erecting or maintaining a rental unit must annually registering the
property with the Rental Housing Officer. The registration shall be effected by
furnishing to that officer, upon a form furnished by the officer, the following
information:
      (1)   Name of owner and emergency contact phone numbers;
      (2)   Mailing address of owner;
      (3)   Email address of owner;
      (4)   Brief description of type and number of rental units; and
      (5)   Name and address of owner's agent, if any, authorized to receive
notification of complaints, damages, emergencies, substandard conditions or
other communications, including service of process. The address of any agent so
designated shall be within the state. Any owner who does not reside in Indiana
shall be required to designate a resident agent.
   (B)   The registration form shall be signed by the owner.
   (C)   Whenever ownership of a rental unit changes, the new owner shall
register the property.
   (D)   Notification of the owner or his agent at the address shown on the
registration form shall constitute sufficient notice pursuant to any provision
of this subchapter.
   (E)   The annual registration form shall be accompanied by the following
annual fee of $5 for each unit:
      (1)   An apartment complex containing multiple units meeting the
definition of rental unit community is charged the appropriate annual fee for
the rental unit community;
      (2)   A house rented to a single family would be charged a single fee;
      (3)   A house rented to four or less unrelated individuals will be
charged a single fee; and
      (4)   A house rented to five or more unrelated individuals, as defined
under “rooming house” in §
156.01, would be charged one fee per individual bedroom unless determined to be
a rental unit community.
   (F)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any owner to maintain a
rental unit which has not been registered in accordance with this section.
   (G)   The annual registration fee shall be due on February 1 of each year.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92; Am Ord. 30-92, passed 10-13-92; Am. Ord. 27-93,
passed 10-25-93; Am. Ord. 15-95, passed 8-29-95; Am. Ord. 21-2008, passed 12-8-
08; Am. Ord. 38-2015, passed 12-14-15)
§ 156.05 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Each rental unit and premises within the city which does not meet the
requirements for exemption shall be inspected by the Rental Housing Officer
immediately prior to the expiration of the appropriate duration, to establish
compliance with the Rental Housing Code. Non-exempt inspections shall be for a
period of:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling: three years; if no violations, an extra
year shall be added;
      (2)   Purpose-built multifamily housing or purpose-built duplex: three
years; if no violations, an extra year shall be added;
      (3)   Converted housing (physically converted from single-family to two
or more units): two years.
   (B)   No registered rental unit shall be inspected in good faith more often
than once every two years, unless a request for inspection is made as provided
in division (D) of this section or there is a reasonable basis to believe the
unit is out of compliance with this Ordinance, state code, or other
requirements or upon receipt of a complaint.
   (C)   An inspection report shall be issued for each rental unit upon which a
cycle inspection or a complete off-cycle inspection is performed after the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this section, provided all
violations cited on the inspection report, excluding exterior painting, are
satisfactorily corrected and the unit reinspected within 60 days after such
report is mailed to the owner or agent.
   (D)   An inspection may be done at the discretion of the Rental Housing
Officer, upon the written, signed request of any resident of the city, any
governmental agency, or the rental unit's tenant, the tenant's legal
representative, the owner, or the owner's agent or upon a reasonable belief
that the unit is out of compliance with city ordinance or state safety or Code
requirements. An off-cycle inspection shall be confined to the defects
complained of, if any, by the person requesting the inspection unless the
Rental Housing Officer determines that the condition of the rental unit or
premises has deteriorated since the last inspection to such an extent that a
complete inspection is required to effectuate the purposes of the Rental
Housing Code, in which case a complete new inspection of the entire rental unit
and premises may be performed. If a complete inspection is performed, a new
inspection report shall be issued upon completion, provided all violations
excluding exterior painting are satisfactorily completed, and the unit
reinspected, within 60 days after the receipt of the inspection report by the
owner or owner's agent.
   (E)   Unless waived by the landlord or tenant, the following procedure shall
be used to obtain entry to rental units for the purpose of any inspection. The
owner of the unit shall be contacted and a date shall be established for
inspection. The owner shall then furnish to the Rental Housing Officer a
current list of tenants in each rental unit. The Rental Housing Officer shall
then send a certified letter with return receipt requested and a stamped self-
addressed postcard to each tenant. If there is evidence that the tenant
received the letter, but no other response is received from the tenant, consent
to enter will be presumed. An official record shall be maintained of all
notices. The landlord shall be responsible for granting access to the inspector
upon presentation of a copy of the official record of notices and responses. If
either the tenant or the owner refuses entry for inspection after proper
notification, the Rental Housing Officer shall not inspect without first
obtaining a search warrant.
   (F)   Inspections may be conducted if the city:
      (1)   Has reason to believe;
      (2)   Receives a complaint that the rental unit does not comply with
applicable code requirements. However, in the case of a rental unit that meets
the requirements for an exemption above, the city may not impose a fee
pertaining to the inspection of such a rental unit. If the inspection of a
rental unit reveals a violation of applicable code requirements, the owner of
the rental unit may be subject to a penalty as provided in this subchapter.
      (3)   This applies only to a rental unit that meets the requirements for
an exemption above. If the inspection report for the rental unit or rental unit
community is prepared by or for the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development, the inspection report is valid for purposes of maintaining
the exemption until:
         (a)   The date specified in the inspection report; or
         (b)   Thirty-six months after the date of the inspection report,
whichever is earlier.
   (G)   Inspection fee.  The city will charge $40 per inspection unless the
rental property is exempt. This fee will be placed in the non-reverting fund to
defray the cost of the rental housing code.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92; Am. Ord. 27-93, passed 10-26-93; Am. Ord. 17-2004,
passed 11-22-04; Am. Ord. 21-2008, passed 12-8-08; Am. Ord. 38-2015, passed 12-
14-15)
§ 156.06 OCCUPANCY PERMITS.
   (A)   All rental units and premises registered, inspected, or subject to
exemption from inspection and found not to be in violation of the Rental
Housing Code shall be issued an occupancy permit by the Rental Housing Officer
at no charge. A permit is not required to rent a registered unit. However,
units which do not meet minimum standards may be subject to penalties for
noncompliance. Upon registration of a rental unit not previously registered,
the Rental Housing Officer shall issue an occupancy permit which shall be in
effect after inspection or exemption.
   (B)   The owners of rental units and premises found to be in violation of
the Rental Housing Code shall be notified in writing of the reason for
disapproval and the reasonable time period during which compliance with the
Rental Housing Code is expected.
   (C)   At the end of the time period specified in the notice described in
division (B), any rental unit or premises found to be in violation of the
Rental Housing Code shall be reinspected by the Rental Housing Officer at the
request of the owner or his agent after such owner or agent has effected those
corrections and additions required by the city as a result of any previous
inspection, and upon such reinspection such rental unit and premises shall be
approved or disapproved for an occupancy permit. If reinspection is not
requested by the owner or his agent at the end of the time period specified in
the notice described in division (B), or upon reinspection the unit and
premises is not approved, any occupancy permit shall be revoked.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any owner to maintain a
rental unit without an occupancy permit.
   (E)   Once issued, permits do not expire unless there is a change to
ownership of the unit.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92; Am. Ord. 38-2015, passed 12-14-15)
§ 156.07 RETALIATORY EVICTION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any owner or his agent to
bring or threaten to bring an action for possession for the purpose of
retaliating against a tenant for requesting an inspection as provided for in §
156.05(D).
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.08 VIOLATION.
   In addition to any penalty that may be imposed pursuant to §
156.99 for any violation of the provisions of this subchapter, the Rental
Housing Department Officer may:
   (A)   Declare a rental unit to be unsafe.
   (B)   Issue an emergency order where immediate action is required to protect
the health and safety of the public or of the occupants of the rental unit.
   (C)   Seek any of the additional remedies which provide for an appropriate
action or proceeding at law or in equity against the person responsible for the
violation for the purpose of ordering him to:
      (1)   Restrain, correct or remove the violation or refrain from any
further execution of work.
      (2)   Restrain or correct the erection, installation, or alteration of
such structure,
      (3)   Require the removal of work in violation, or part thereof erected,
construed, installed or altered in violation of, or not in compliance with, the
provisions of this code, or in violation of a plan or specification under which
an approval, permit or certificate was issued.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.09 RENTAL HOUSING OFFICER.
   (A)   The fees generated from the registration and inspections of rental
units along with penalties assessed under this subchapter shall be used to
employ a Rental Housing Officer, appropriate staff, and related services.
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint the Rental Housing Officer.
   (C)   The Rental Housing Officer reports to the City Inspector.
   (D)   The decisions of the Rental Housing Officer may be appealed to the
Rental Housing Quality Board on petition filed with the Board within 20 days
after the Rental Housing Officer's decision.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92; Am. Ord. 21-2008, passed 12-8-08)
§ 156.10 RENTAL HOUSING QUALITY APPEALS BOARD.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this Board is to hear the appeal of any owner
or person who is aggrieved by a ruling or decision of the Housing Department,
in any matter, ruling or decision of the Housing Department, or in any matter
relative to the interpretation or enforcement of any of the provisions of the
Rental Housing Code of the city. The Board is authorized to make investigations
relative to the complaint and may overrule the Housing Department.
   (B)   Appointments. The Board shall be composed of three members, two
appointed by the Mayor and one appointed by the Council.
   (C)   Qualifications. Members shall be residents of the city. Members may
be, but are not required to be, persons who are elected, appointed, or
otherwise employed by the city, but such members shall not constitute a
majority of the Board. Consideration shall be given for appointment to the
Board to tenants, owners, and persons with experience in the area of building,
managing, leasing housing and financing property purchases.
   (D)   Powers and duties. The powers and duties of the Rental Housing Quality
Appeals Board shall be to:
      (1)   Hear and determine appeals from and review any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by an administrative official or board charged
with the enforcement of any regulation or restrictions set forth in the Rental
Housing Code;
      (2)   Permit and authorize exceptions in particular situations specified
in the housing code;
      (3)   Hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of the housing code
upon which the Board is required to act under this section;
      (4)   In exercising its powers, the Rental Housing Quality Appeals Board
may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement,
decision or determination appealed from as in its opinion ought to be done in
the premises, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer or board
from which the appeal is taken.
   (E)   Jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of the Board shall extend to appeals
from the decisions of any administrative officer charged with the enforcement
of the municipal housing code within the city.
   (F)   Jurisdiction granting exceptions; requirements. In the matter of
granting exceptions, the Board shall not assume jurisdiction unless it first
finds in each individual case that the following conditions are present:
      (1)   That the value of the area about the property to which the
exception is to apply will not be adversely affected;
      (2)   That the exception is consistent with the intent and purpose of the
housing code and promotes public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (G)   Petitions. A person may petition the Board to appeal any decision of
any administrative official or enforcing officer by submitting a written
petition to the Board, accompanied by a filing fee of $25. Petitioner must list
the names of the occupants of the premises in the petition.
   (H)   Board action on petition. Within 30 days after the filing, the Board
shall investigate the petition and set a date for a public hearing to be held
within 30 days thereof. Notice of the public hearing shall be advertised at
least ten days beforehand according to provisions in IC 5-3-1. The cost of
advertising shall be borne by the petitioner. Notice of the hearing shall be
served at least ten days before the hearing date on the petitioner, the person
having possession of the premises and the owner of the premises, if the owner
is not in possession. The occupants of the premises shall be allowed to
participate in the public hearing.
   (I)   Board decision. Two members shall constitute a quorum. A majority of
the Board is required for a decision provided a quorum is present. No member
shall vote on any questions in which result the member is immediately and
particularly interested. When the Board has decided any question, any member
voting on the prevailing side may move a reconsideration of the vote thereon
before adjournment of the session of the Board at which the vote is taken.
Concurrence of a majority shall be sufficient to order reconsideration of a
vote, but if a motion to reconsider is lost, it shall not again be entertained.
Except in those matters irrevocable by nature or circumstance and except
insomuch as contractual or vested rights may have been established pursuant
thereto, a decision of the Board once made may be rescinded only by a
subsequent decision. Not less than ten days after such hearing the Board shall
make its findings, reasons for the decision, decision and recommendations in
writing to the Rental Housing Officer.
   (J)   Notice of decision. A copy of the Board's written findings,
determination, reasons for the decision, and recommendations shall be mailed to
the person having possession of the premises, the owner of the premises, if the
owner is not in possession and the petitioner, if a different party. In
addition the Board shall make a detailed report of all its proceedings, setting
forth it's reasons, the vote of each member participating and the absence or
abstention from voting of a member. Such record shall be open to public
inspection in the offices of the Board and the enforcement officer.
   (K)   Appeal from Board decision. Any person jointly or severally aggrieved
by a decision of the Board may proceed in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (L)   Appeal Board Compensation. Appeal Board members shall be entitled to
compensation of $25 per month.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92; Am. Ord. 21-2008, passed 12-8-08; Am. Ord. 1-09,
passed 1-26-09; Am. Ord. 38-2015, passed 12-14-15)
§ 156.11 CIVIL ENFORCEMENT.
   Any violation of this subchapter is hereby declared to be a common nuisance
and as such may be abated in a manner as nuisances are now or may hereafter be
abated under the law by any resident of the city or other interested person.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.12 VARIANCES FOR CERTAIN PREEXISTING CONDITIONS.
   For rental units registered within 30 days of the effective date of
Ordinance 27-92, the Rental Housing Officer may grant the following variances
under the following terms and conditions if requested by the owner at the time
of registration. Upon denial of a request for variance, an appeal may be filed
with the Board.
   (A)   The number of parking spaces to be provided under §
156.38(G) may be reduced to a number determined by the Rental Housing Officer
if other adequate parking is provided near the rental unit and parking on the
public streets in the vicinity is not unduly crowded.
   (B)   The requirement that ceilings be 7½ feet tall under §
156.45(E) may be reduced by the Rental Housing Officer to seven feet tall.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
RENTAL HOUSING CODE
§ 156.25 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the Rental Housing Code.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.26 SCOPE.
   This code is to protect community neighborhoods and the public health,
safety and welfare in all existing and new rental units and their premises by:
   (A)   Establishing minimum maintenance standards for rental units and their
premises for basic equipment and facilities for light, ventilation, space
heating and sanitation; for safety from fire; for space, use and location; and
for safe and sanitary maintenance of rental units;
   (B)   Fixing the responsibilities of owners, operators and occupants of
rental units, and;
   (C)   Providing for administration, enforcement and penalties.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.27 INTENT.
   This subchapter shall be construed liberally and justly to insure public
health, safety and welfare insofar as they are affected by the maintenance of
structures and premises.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.28 OTHER REGULATIONS.
   The provisions in this subchapter shall not be construed to prevent the
enforcement of other ordinances or regulations which prescribe standards other
than are provided herein.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.29 APPLICATION OF BUILDING CODE.
   Any repairs or alterations to a structure, or changes of use therein, which
may be caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this subchapter
shall be done in accordance with the procedures and provisions of the building
code (
Chapter 150).
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.30 EXISTING REMEDIES.
   The provisions in this subchapter shall not be deemed to abolish or impair
existing remedies of the jurisdiction or its officers or agencies relating to
the removal or demolition of any buildings which are deemed to be dangerous,
unsafe, or unsanitary. (
Chapter 159)
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.31 REVENUES.
   All revenues generated from the current Rental Housing Code or any
amendments or additions thereto are to be henceforth dedicated funds and are
not to revert at the conclusion of the city's fiscal year to the general fund.
These funds are to be accumulated and maintained in a separate dedicated fund
to be used exclusively for purposes set forth in the Rental Housing Code and as
may be appropriated by the Common Council from time to time.
(Ord. 21-93, passed 8-23-93)
§ 156.32 EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   This subchapter establishes minimum requirements for the initial and
continued occupancy and use of all structures and premises as rental units and
does not replace or modify requirements otherwise established by ordinance
which may be additional to or more stringent for the construction, repair,
alteration, or use of structures, equipment or facilities.
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to all rental units whether or not
existing at the time this subchapter is adopted.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.33 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Officer. It shall be the duty and responsibility of the Rental Housing
Officer to enforce the provisions of this subchapter that have been designated
as the duties and responsibilities of the Code Official.
   (B)   Relief from personal liability. Any code official, officer or employee
who acts in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties of
enforcement of this subchapter is relieved of all personal liability for any
damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of such acts or
alleged failure to act. Further, the employee shall not be held liable for any
costs in any action, suit or proceeding that may be instituted in the
enforcement of this subchapter.
   (C)   Official records. An official record shall be kept of all business and
activities of the department specified in the provisions of this code, and all
such records shall be open to public inspection at all appropriate times and
under reasonable regulations established by the Code Official to maintain the
integrity and security of such records.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.34 DUTIES AND POWERS OF CODE OFFICIAL.
   (A)   General. The Code Official shall enforce all the provisions of this
subchapter relative to the maintenance of structures and premises, except as
may otherwise be specifically provided for by other regulations, ordinances, or
laws.
   (B)   Notices and orders. The Code Official shall issue all necessary
notices and orders to abate illegal or unsafe conditions to insure compliance-
with the code requirements for the safety, health, and general welfare of the
public.
   (C)   Inspections. In order to safeguard the safety, health and welfare of
the public, the Code Official is authorized to enter any structure or premises
at any reasonable time for the purpose of making inspections and performing
duties under this subchapter in accordance with §
156.05. An inspection fee will not be charged for an exempt rental unit
community or exempt properties. Compliance inspections may occur as set out
herein.
   (D)   Coordination of enforcement. Inspection of premises, the issuance of
notices and orders and enforcement shall be the responsibility of Code
Officials so charged by the jurisdiction. Whenever, in the opinion of a Code
Official initiating an inspection under this subchapter, it is deemed necessary
or desirable to have inspections by any other department, the employee shall
make reasonable effort to arrange for the coordination of inspections so as to
minimize the number of visits by inspectors, and to confer with the other
departments for the purpose of eliminating conflicting orders before any are
issued. A department shall not, however, delay the issuance of any emergency
order, notice or citation which it determines must be issued.
   (E)   Rule making authority. The Code Official shall have power as may be
necessary in the interest of public safety, health and general welfare, to
adopt and promulgate rules and regulations to interpret and implement the
provisions of this subchapter to secure its intent and to designate
requirements applicable due to local climatic or other conditions; but such
rules shall not have the effect of waiving working stresses or fire protection
requirements specifically provided in this subchapter or of violating accepted
engineering practice involving public safety.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92; Am. Ord. 38-2015, passed 12-14-15)
§ 156.35 NOTICES AND ORDER.
   (A)   Notice to owner or to person or persons responsible. Whenever the Code
Official determines that there has been a violation of this subchapter, or has
reasonable grounds to believe that a violation has occurred, the Code Official
shall give notice to the owner or the person or persons responsible in the
manner described below.
   (B)   Form. Such notice prescribed in §
156.34 shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Shall include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the reason or reasons why it is being
issued;
      (4)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time for the
repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into
compliance with provisions of this subchapter; and
      (5)   Include an explanation of the owner's right to seek modification or
withdrawal of the notice by petition to the Code Official.
   (C)   Service. Such notice prescribed in §§
156.33 and
156.34 shall be deemed to be properly served upon the owner or such person or
persons responsible if a copy thereof is delivered to the person personally; or
by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of abode; in the presence of
someone in the family of suitable age and discretion who shall be informed of
the contents thereof; or by mailing first class mail, postage prepaid, to the
person's last known address; or if the letter is returned because it could not
be delivered, by posting a copy thereof in a conspicuous place in or about the
structure affected by such notice.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.36 SCOPE; TENSE AND DEFINITION OF TERMS.
   (A)   Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall,
for the purpose of this subchapter, have the meanings indicated in this
section.
   (B)   Interchangeability. Words used in the present tense include the
future; words in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter; the
singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular.
   (C)   Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are not defined in this
subchapter and are defined in the building, plumbing and/or mechanical codes,
they shall have the same meanings ascribed to them as in those codes.
   (D)   Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined under the provisions of
this subchapter or under the provisions of the building, plumbing and/or
mechanical codes they shall have ascribed to them their ordinarily accepted
meaning, or such as the context herein may imply.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.37 ENVIRONMENTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this section shall govern the minimum
conditions for maintenance of exterior property, premises and structures and
premises shall comply with conditions herein prescribed insofar as they are
applicable.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the premises shall maintain such
structures and premises in compliance with these requirements. A person shall
not let to another for occupancy or use premises which do not comply with the
following requirements of this section.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.38 PREMISES CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Sanitation. All exterior property areas and premises shall be
maintained in a clean, safe and sanitary condition free from any accumulation
of rubbish or garbage.
   (B)   Grading and drainage. All premises shall be graded and maintained so
as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water thereon, or within any
structure located thereon.
   (C)   Noxious weeds. All areas shall be kept free from weeds or plant growth
which are noxious or detrimental to the public health and welfare.
   (D)   Grass height. All grass and weeds over six inches in height shall be
mowed and the trimmings raked and disposed of properly.
   (E)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures, including detached
garages, fences, and walls, shall be structurally sound, shall be properly
surface coated when required to prevent deterioration and shall be free of all
electrical and fire hazards and harmful insects and rodent infestation.
   (F)   Outdoor furniture, vending machines and appliances. All furniture
placed outside the rental unit shall be waterproof and shall be maintained in
good repair. No vending machines shall be allowed outside the rental unit. No
appliances shall be visible from public areas.
   (G)   Parking. For scattered-site rental units, a parking space must be
provided for at least 50% of the adult occupancy of the rental unit. If the
parking space is on a public street, only those spaces immediately adjacent to
the property may be counted. (Housing Code §
152.62) For apartment complexes, one off-street parking spaces per unit must be
provided.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.39 EXTERIOR STRUCTURE.
   (A)   General. The exterior of a structure shall be structurally sound and
sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the health and safety of the occupants
and so as to protect the occupants from the environment.
      (1)   Where the Code Official has ordered the exterior to be painted,
compliance shall be within a period of one year from the date the inspection
report and order are mailed. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or
agent to schedule a reinspection with the Rental Code Officer during, or at the
end of, the one year period.
      (2)   Where the Code Official has ordered repairs to correct exterior
violations other than painting, an extension of time to complete the repairs
may be granted for a period not to exceed one year from the date that the
inspection report and order are mailed; provided, no such extension shall be
granted where, in the opinion of the Code Official, the violations are life
threatening in nature.
   (B)   Structural members. All supporting structural members of all
structures shall be kept structurally sound, and substantially free of
deterioration and be capable of safely bearing the dead and live loads imposed
upon them.
   (C)   Exterior surfaces (foundations, walls and roof). Every foundation,
exterior wall, roof and all other exterior surfaces shall be maintained in a
workmanlike state of maintenance and repair.
   (D)   Foundation walls. All foundation walls shall be maintained so as to
carry the safe design and operating dead and live loads and shall be maintained
plumb free from open cracks and breaks, so as not to be detrimental to public
safety and welfare.
   (E)   Exterior walls. Every exterior wall shall be substantially free of
holes, breaks, loose or rotting boards or timbers and any other conditions
which might admit rain or dampness to the interior portions of the walls or to
the occupied spaces in the building. All exterior surface material including
wood, composition, or metal siding, shall be maintained weatherproof and shall
be properly surface coated when required to prevent deterioration.
   (F)   Roofs. The roof shall be structurally sound, tight, and not have
defects which might admit rain, and roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent
rain water from causing dampness in the walls or interior portion of the
building.
   (G)   Overhead extensions. All canopies, metal awnings, stairways, fire
escapes, standpipes, exhaust ducts and similar overhang extensions shall be
maintained in good repair and be properly anchored so as to be kept in a safe
and sound condition. They shall be protected from the elements and against
decay and rust by the periodic application of weather-coating material such as
paint or similar surface treatment.
   (H)   Chimneys. All chimneys and similar appurtenances shall be structurally
safe, sound and in good repair, all exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be
protected from the elements and against decay or rust by periodic application
of weather-coating material such as paint or similar surface treatment.
   (I)   Stairs and porches. Every stair, porch, balcony, and all attached
appurtenances shall be so constructed as to be safe to use and capable of
supporting the loads to which it is subjected and shall be kept in sound
condition and good repair.
   (J)   Window and door frames. Every window, door, and frame shall be
constructed and maintained so as to exclude rain as completely as possible, and
to substantially exclude air infiltration. (Housing Code §
152.20)
   (K)   Weather tight. Every window and exterior door shall be fitted
reasonably in its frame, be weathertight, substantially exclude air
infiltration and rain, and they shall be kept in sound condition and repair.
   (L)   Operable windows. Every habitable room shall have at least one
operable window providing a route for emergency escape (minimum of 4.75 square
feet), other than a fixed window, and shall be capable of being easily opened.
(Housing Code §
152.20).
   (M) Insect screens. From May 15 to October 15 of each year every window or
other outside opening used for ventilation purposes shall be supplied with
approved screening, and every swinging screen door shall have a self-closing
device in good working condition, except that such screens shall not be
required for a rental unit on a floor above the fifth floor, for outside doors
of rental units that are air-conditioned, or for common hallways of multi-
family dwellings.
   (N)   Door hardware. Every door which connects a rental unit with any area
exterior to the unit shall have a functioning locking device, door hinge, and
door latch and shall be maintained in good condition. Door locks in rental
units shall be capable of tightly securing the door.
   (O)   Basement hatchways. Every basement or cellar hatchway shall be
constructed and maintained to prevent the entrance of rodents, rain, and
surface drainage water into the structure. (Housing Code §
152.35).
   (P)   Guards for basement windows. Every basement or cellar window which is
openable shall be supplied with rodent-proof shields, storm windows or other
material affording protection against the entry of rodents.
   (Q)   Exterior handrails. Every stairwell and every flight of stairs, which
is more than three risers high, shall have handrails or railings which shall be
located as required by the building code, and every open portion of a stair,
porch, landing and balcony which is more than 30 inches above the floor or
grade below shall have guardrails. Every handrail and guardrail shall be
maintained in good condition, be firmly fastened, and be capable of bearing
normally imposed loads. (Housing Code §
152.35)
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.40 INTERIOR STRUCTURE.
   (A)   General. The interior of a structure and its equipment shall be
structurally-sound and in a sanitary condition so as not to pose a threat to
the health and safety of the occupants and to protect occupants from the
environment. (Housing Code §
152.35)
   (B)   Structural members. The supporting structural members of every
building shall be maintained structurally sound, not showing any evidence of
deterioration which would render them incapable of carrying the imposed loads.
   (C)   Interior surfaces. Floors, walls, including windows and doors,
ceilings, and other interior surfaces shall be maintained in good, clean, and
sanitary condition. Peeling paint, substantially cracked or loose plaster,
decayed wood, peeling or loose wallpaper, and other defective surface
conditions shall be eliminated.
   (D)   Bathroom and kitchen floors. Every toilet, bathroom and kitchen floor
surface shall be constructed and maintained so as to be substantially
impervious to water and so as to permit such floor to be easily kept in clean
and sanitary condition. This does not preclude carpet, provided that it is
devoid of mildew, mold, or other unsafe or unsanitary conditions.
   (E)   Free from dampness. In every building, cellars, basements and crawl
spaces shall be maintained reasonably free from dampness to prevent conditions
conducive to decay or deterioration of the structure. (Housing Code §
152.36)
   (F)   Sanitation. The interior of every structure shall be maintained in a
clean and sanitary condition free from any accumulation of rubbish, refuse or
garbage. Rubbish, garbage, and other refuse shall be properly kept inside
temporary storage facilities.
   (G)   Storage. Garbage or refuse shall not be allowed to accumulate or be
stored in public halls or stairways.
   (H)   Exit doors. Every door available as an exit shall be capable of being
opened easily from the inside and without the use of a key.
   (I)   Stairs, porches and railings. Stairs and other exit facilities shall
be adequate for safety as provided in the building code. (Housing Code §
152.35(C))
   (J)   Exit facilities. All interior stairs and railings and other exit
facilities of every structure shall be maintained in sound condition and good
repair by replacing treads and risers that evidence excessive wear or are
broken, warped or loose. Every inside stair shall be so constructed and
maintained as to be safe to use and capable of supporting the anticipated
loads.
   (K)   Handrails. Every flight of stairs, which is more than three risers
high, shall have handrails which shall be located as required by the building
code, and every open portion of a stair, porch, landing and balcony which is
more than 30 inches above the floor or grade below shall have guardrails. Every
handrail and guardrail shall be firmly fastened and capable of bearing normally
imposed loads and shall be maintained in good condition.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.41 LIGHT, VENTILATION AND SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this section shall govern the minimum
conditions and standards for the light, ventilation and space for the occupancy
of a structure. All light, ventilation and space conditions shall comply with
the requirements herein prescribed insofar as they are applicable.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
such light and ventilation and space conditions in compliance with these
requirements. A person shall not let to another for occupancy or use any
premises which does not comply with the following requirements of this section.
   (C)   Access to public property. All structures shall be provided access to
public property. Such access means shall be unobstructed. (Housing Code §
152.60)
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.42 LIGHT.
   (A)   General. All spaces and rooms shall be provided sufficient light so as
not to endanger health and safety.
   (B)   Common halls and stairways. Every common hall and stairway in every
building, other than one-family dwellings, shall be adequately lighted at all
times with an illumination of at least a 60 watt light bulb. Illumination shall
be provided throughout the normally traveled stairs and passageways. (Housing
Code §
152.35(D))
   (C)   Other spaces. All other spaces shall be provided with natural or
artificial light of sufficient intensity and so distributed as to permit the
maintenance of sanitary conditions, and the safe use of the space and the
appliances, equipment and fixtures.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.43 VENTILATION.
   (A)   General. All spaces or rooms shall be provided sufficient natural or
mechanical ventilation so as not to endanger health and safety. Where
mechanical ventilation is provided in lieu of the natural ventilation, the
mechanical ventilating system shall be maintained in operation during the
occupancy of any structure or portion thereof.
   Exception: A kitchen with all electric appliances which contains neither an
openable window nor mechanical ventilation shall not be subject to these
requirements, provided that:
      (1)   The kitchen is not in a location which would permit the
installation of a window in an exterior wall; and
      (2)   The installation of a mechanical ventilation system would be
infeasible due to structural considerations.
   (B)   Habitable rooms. Every habitable room shall have at least one window
which can be easily opened or another device as will adequately ventilate the
room. (Housing Code §
152.20)
   (C)   Toilet rooms. Every bathroom and toilet room shall comply with the
light and ventilation requirements for habitable rooms as required by §§
156.42(B) and
156.43(B) except that a window shall not be required in bathrooms or toilet
rooms equipped with a natural or approved mechanical ventilation system.
   (D)   Cooking facilities. Cooking shall not be permitted in any sleeping
room, and a cooking facility or appliance shall not be permitted to be present
in a sleeping room.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.44 MINIMUM OCCUPANCY AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum occupancy area in square feet.
MINIMUM OCCUPANCY AREA IN SQUARE FEET   
Space       1-2- Occupants  3-5 Occupants 6 or More
Living room No requirements 110           150
Dining room No requirements 70            100
Kitchen     50              50            60
Bedrooms    Must comply with §
            156.45(B)
(Housing Code §
152.21)
Note: Combined living room-dining room spaces will be construed as meeting
the rquiremenets of this table if the total area is equal to that required
for separate rooms and if the space is so located that it may function as a
combination living room-dining room.
 
   (B)   Basement rooms. Basement bedrooms partially below grade shall not be
used for living purposes unless:
      (1)   Floors and walls are watertight and so insulated as to prevent
entry of moisture or drafts; and
      (2)   Total window area, total openable area and ceiling height are in
accordance with this subchapter; and (Housing Code §
152.23)
      (3)   Required minimum window area of every habitable room is entirely
above the grade of the ground adjoining the window area, not excluding approved
window wells.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.45 SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Dwelling units. Every dwelling unit shall contain a minimum gross
floor area of not less than 150 square feet for the first occupant, and 100
square feet for each additional occupant. The floor area shall be calculated on
the basis of the total area of all habitable rooms. (Housing Code §
152.21)
   (B)   Area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for sleeping purposes
by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of floor area, and every
room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one person shall contain at
least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant. (Housing Code §
152.21)
   (C)   Overcrowding. If any room used for residential purposes is
overcrowded, the Code Official may order the number of persons sleeping or
living in the room to be reduced so that there shall be not less than the total
area required in the Table in §
156.44 Minimum Occupancy Area Requirements.
   (D)   Prohibited use. It shall be prohibited to use for sleeping purposes
any kitchen, nonhabitable space, or public space.
   (E)   Minimum ceiling heights. Habitable rooms shall have a clear ceiling
height over the minimum area required by this subchapter at not less than 7½
feet, except that in attics or top half-stories the ceiling height shall be not
less than seven feet over not less than 1/3 of the minimum area required by
this subchapter when used for sleeping, study or similar activity. In
calculating the floor area of the rooms, only those portions of the floor area
of the room having a clear ceiling height of five feet or more may be included.
(Housing Code §
152.21)
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92; Am. Ord. 38-2015, passed 12-14-15)
§ 156.46 PLUMBING FACILITIES AND FIXTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of §§
156.47 through
156.51 shall govern the minimum plumbing facilities and fixtures to be
provided. All plumbing facilities and fixtures shall comply with the
requirements herein prescribed insofar as they are applicable.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
plumbing facilities in compliance with these requirements. A person shall not
let to another for occupancy or use any structure or portion thereof or
premises which does not comply with the following requirements of §§
156.47 through
156.51.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.47 REQUIRED FACILITIES.
   (A)   Dwelling units. Every dwelling unit shall include its own plumbing
facilities which are in proper operating condition, can be used in privacy and
are adequate for personal cleanliness and the disposal of human waste. The
following minimum plumbing facilities set forth in this section shall be
supplied and maintained in a sanitary, safe working condition.
   (B)   Toilet and lavatory. Every dwelling unit shall contain within its
walls, a room separate from habitable rooms, which affords privacy and a toilet
supplied with cold running water. The lavatory may be placed in the same room
as the toilet, or, if located in another room, the lavatory shall be located in
close proximity to the door leading directly into the room in which the toilet
is located. The lavatory shall be supplied with hot and cold running water.
There shall be one toilet and one lavatory for every five adults occupying the
premises. (Housing Code §
152.22)
   (C)   Bathtub or shower. Every dwelling unit shall contain a room which
affords privacy to a person and which is equipped with a bathtub or shower
supplied with hot and cold running water. There shall be one bathtub or shower
for every five adults occupying the premises.
(Housing Code
152.16(C))
   (D)   Kitchen sink. Every dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink apart
from the lavatory required under division (B) above. (Housing Code
152.16(A))
   (E)   Rooming houses. At least one toilet, lavatory basin and bathtub or
shower properly connected to an approved water and sewer system and in good
working condition shall be supplied for each five adults within a rooming house
wherever bathroom facilities are shared. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or
shower shall be supplied with hot and cold water at all times.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.48 TOILET ROOMS.
   (A)   Privacy. Toilet rooms and bathrooms shall be designed and arranged to
provide privacy. (Housing Code §
152.16(B))
   (B)   Floors. Bathrooms and toilet rooms shall be provided with floors of
moisture resistant material.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.49 PLUMBING FIXTURES.
   (A)   General. All plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in a safe and
useable condition. All plumbing fixtures shall be of approved non-absorbent
material. (Housing Code §
152.35(E))
   (B)   Fixtures. Water supply lines, plumbing fixtures, vents and drains
shall be properly installed, connected and maintained in working order and
shall be kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects and be capable of
performing the function for which they are designed. All repairs and
installations shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the building
code or plumbing code. (Housing Code §
152.35(D))
   (C)   Maintenance. All plumbing facilities shall be maintained in a clean
and sanitary condition by the occupant so as not to breed insects and rodents
or produce dangerous or offensive gases or odors.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.50 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   General. Every sink, lavatory, bathtub or shower, drinking fountain,
toilet, or other facility shall be properly connected to either a public water
system or to an approved private water system. All sinks, lavatories, bathtubs
and showers shall be supplied with hot and cold running water.
   (B)   Contamination. The water supply shall be maintained free from
contamination and all water inlets for plumbing fixtures shall be located above
the overflow rim of the fixture.
   (C)   Supply. The water supply systems shall be installed and maintained to
provide at all times a supply of water to plumbing fixtures, devices, and
appurtenances in sufficient volume and at pressures adequate to enable them to
function satisfactorily.
   (D)   Water heating facilities. Where hot water is provided, water heating
facilities shall be installed in an approved manner, properly maintained, and
properly connected with hot water. Water heating facilities shall be capable of
heating water to such a temperature as to permit an adequate amount of water to
be drawn at every required kitchen sink, lavatory basin bathtub, shower, and
laundry facility or other similar units, at a temperature of not less than 120°
F.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.51 SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   General. Every sink, lavatory, bathtub or shower, drinking fountain,
toilet or other facility shall be properly connected to either a public sewer
system or to an approved private sewage disposal system.
   (B)   Maintenance. Every plumbing stack, waste and sewer line shall be so
installed and maintained as to function properly and shall be kept free from
obstructions, leaks and defects to prevent structural deterioration or health
hazards. All repairs and installations shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of the building code or plumbing code.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.52 MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of §§
156.52 through
156.54 shall govern the minimum mechanical and electrical facilities and
equipment to be provided. All mechanical and electrical facilities shall comply
with the requirements herein prescribed insofar as they are applicable.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment in compliance with these
requirements. A person shall not let to another for occupancy or use any
premises which do not comply with the following requirements of §§
156.52 through
156.54.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.53 HEATING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Residential buildings. Every rental unit and guest room shall be
provided with heating facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of
65° F., at a point three feet from an exterior wall in all habitable rooms,
bathrooms, and toilet rooms. The heating system in all residential buildings
containing fewer heating facilities than rental units shall be balanced in a
manner which will ensure that all rental units are capable of maintaining a
room temperature of 65° F., at a point three feet above the floor and three
feet from an exterior wall in all habitable rooms, bathrooms, and toilet rooms.
The heating system(s) shall be balanced in such a manner which will ensure that
every rental unit and every habitable room, bathroom, and toilet room within
each rental unit is being heated to a temperature reasonably close to the
temperature indicated by the controlling thermostat. (Housing Code §
152.20)
   (B)   Cooking and heating equipment. All cooking and heating equipment,
components, and accessories in every heating, cooking, and water heating device
shall be maintained free from leaks and obstructions, and kept functioning
properly so as to be free from fire, health, and accident hazards. All
installations and repairs shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
the building code, or other applicable laws or ordinances. Portable cooking
equipment employing flame is prohibited, except for approved residential type
food trays or salvers which are heated by a candle or alcohol lamp.
   (C)   Installation. All mechanical equipment shall be properly installed and
safely maintained in good working condition, and be capable of performing the
function for which it was designed and intended.
   (D)   Fuel. All fuel-burning equipment shall be connected to an approved
chimney, flue or vent.
   (E)   Clearances. All required clearances between fuel burning devices,
heating equipment and combustible materials shall be maintained.
   (F)   Safety controls. All safety controls for fuel-burning equipment shall
be maintained and operable.
   (G)   Combustion air. A supply of air for complete combustion of the fuel
and for ventilation of the space shall be provided the fuel burning equipment.
   (H)   Fireplace. Fireplaces, and other construction and devices intended for
use similar to a fireplace, shall be stable and structurally safe, connected to
approved chimneys and equipped with a damper or other approved device capable
of substantially excluding air infiltration.
   (I)   Climate control. When facilities for interior climate control (heating
cooling, and/or humidity) are integral functions of structures and are used as
dwelling units or other occupancies, such facilities shall be maintained and
operated in a continuous manner in accordance with the designed capacity.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.54 ELECTRICAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Outlets required. Where there is electric service available to a
structure, every habitable room of a rental unit, and every guest room, shall
contain at least two separate and remote outlets, one of which may be a ceiling
or wall type electric light fixture. In a kitchen, three separate and remote
wall type electric convenience outlets or two convenience outlets and one
ceiling or wall type electric light fixture shall be provided. Every public
hall, toilet room, bathroom, laundry room or furnace room shall contain at
least one electric light fixture. In addition to the electric light fixture in
every bathroom and laundry room there shall be provided at least one electric
outlet.
   (B)   Installation. All electrical equipment, wiring and appliances shall be
installed and maintained in a safe manner in accordance with all applicable
laws. All electrical equipment shall be of an approved type.
   (C)   Defective system. Where it is found, in the opinion of the Code
Official, that the electrical system in a structure constitutes a hazard to the
occupants of the structure by reason of unsafe service, improper fusing,
insufficient outlets, improper wiring or installation, deterioration or damage,
or for similar reasons, defects shall be required to be corrected. If
electrical violations are cited which require the existing electrical system of
a structure to be substantially upgraded, the Code Official, owner, or tenant
may have the City Electrical Inspector conduct an inspection of the electrical
system.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.55 FIRE SAFETY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of §§
156.55 through
156.60 shall govern the minimum fire safety facilities and equipment to be
provided. All structures shall be constructed and maintained to prevent and
avoid fire hazards, and in a manner conducive to fire safety. All fire safety
facilities and equipment shall comply with the requirements herein prescribed
insofar as they are applicable.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
such fire facilities and equipment in compliance with these requirements and
the fire prevention code. A person shall not let to another for occupancy or
use any premises which do not comply with following requirements of §§
156.55 through
156.60.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.56 MEANS OF EGRESS.
   (A)   General. A safe, continuous and unobstructed means of egress shall be
provided from the interior of a structure to the exterior at a street, or to a
yard, court, or passageway leading to a public open area at grade.
   (B)   Direct exits. Every rental unit shall have access directly to the
outside or to a public corridor, and every sleeping room shall have an approved
direct means of egress to the outside.
   (C)   Locked doors. All doors in the required means of egress shall be
readily openable from the inner side without the use of keys. Exits from
dwelling units, hotel units, lodging units, and dormitory units shall not lead
through other such units, or through toilet rooms or bathrooms.
   (D)   Fire escapes. All required fire escapes shall be maintained in working
condition and be structurally sound.
   (E)   Exit signs. If required, all exit signs shall be illuminated and
visible.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.57 ACCUMULATIONS AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Accumulations. Waste, refuse, or other materials shall not be allowed
to accumulate in stairways, passageways, doors, windows, fire escapes, or other
means of egress.
   (B)   Flammable matter. Highly flammable or explosive matter, such as
paints, volatile oils, and cleaning fluids, or combustible refuse, such as
waste paper, boxes, and rags shall not be accumulated or stored on residential
premises except in reasonable quantities consistent with normal usage.
   (C)   Residential unit. A dwelling unit or rooming unit shall not be located
within a structure containing an establishment handling, dispensing, or storing
flammable liquids with a flash point of 110° F. or lower, except as provided
for in the building code.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.58 FIRE RESISTANCE RATINGS.
   (A)   General. Floors, walls, ceilings, and other elements and components
required to develop a fireresistance rating shall be maintained so that the
respective fireresistance rating of the enclosure, separation, or construction
is preserved.
   (B)   Furnaces and water heaters located in sleeping rooms and basements
with sleeping rooms. All petrochemical furnaces and petro-chemical water
heaters located in sleeping rooms, or in basements containing sleeping rooms,
shall be separated from the sleeping rooms by an enclosure which shall consist
of 5/8" type X gypsum wallboard taped and spackled on both sides of all walls
of the enclosure. The enclosure shall extend from floor to ceiling and shall be
constructed to eliminate all openings in the enclosure. Access doors and panels
shall be solid-core or shall be covered on both sides with 5/8" gypsum
wallboard. If combustion air cannot be supplied from the exterior of the
structure or from another interior area of the structure, it shall be
permissible to install louvered grills in the door, access panel or wall of the
enclosure.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.59 FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   General. All fire protection systems and equipment shall be maintained
in proper operating condition at all times.
   (B)   Fire alarms. Fire alarms and detecting systems shall be maintained and
be suitable for their respective purposes.
   (C)   Sprinkler heads. Sprinkler heads of fire suppression systems shall be
clean, free of corrosion and paint, and not bent or damaged.
   (D)   Standpipe systems. Hose stations shall be identified and accessible.
The hose shall be in proper position, ready for operation, dry, and free of
deterioration.
   (E)   Fire extinguishers. Each rental unit shall have reasonable access to
an adequately sized fire extinguisher that is visible, accessible and
maintained in an efficient and safe operating condition. This is landlord
provided unless addressed in the lease agreement between landlord and tenant.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92; Am. Ord. 21-2008, passed 12-8-08)
§ 156.60 SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   Smoke detectors required. Subject to such exceptions and conditions
for compliance as stated herein, smoke detectors shall be required in all
rental units.
   (B)   Type and placement of smoke detectors.
      (1)   Only ionization or photo electric type smoke detectors approved by
a nationally recognized testing laboratory shall be installed.
      (2)   Smoke detectors with power sources not directly connected to an AC
primary power source may be battery-powered in self-monitored detectors or
operated from an electrical outlet which is fitted with a plug restraining
device, provided the outlet is not controlled by any switch other than the main
power supply; provided further that nothing in this subchapter shall be
construed to permit battery-operated smoke detectors when such are otherwise
prohibited by the Indiana Building Code, Indiana One and Two Family Dwelling
Code, or by state statute.
      (3)   Smoke detectors shall be placed in accordance with applicable
N.F.P.A. (National Fire protection Association) standards for the installation,
maintenance, and use of household fire warning equipment. Detectors may be
ceiling or wall mounted, provided that if wall mounted they shall be within 12
inches, but not closer than six inches of the ceiling; and provided further
that the Chief of the Fire Department, or his/her designee, may approve and
authorize, in writing, specific placement of smoke detectors in a rental
building upon request of an owner. A copy of such written approval shall be
provided to the Rental Housing Officer.
      (4)   In a dwelling unit which contain(s) a well-defined sleeping room(s)
separated from the other activity areas of the same unit, the detector shall be
located in the corridor within the unit or interior area giving access to the
rooms used for sleeping purposes. In a dwelling unit where a single smoke
detector will not adequately service all sleeping areas, there shall be a smoke
detector installed adjacent to each sleeping area.
      (5)   In a rental building which contain(s) a rooming unit(s), there
shall be a smoke detector installed in each sleeping room.
      (6)   In a rental building containing two or more dwelling units or any
rooming unit, in addition to the requirements for individual smoke detectors in
each dwelling unit or rooming unit, detectors shall be placed in centrally
located common areas so that smoke detectors will adequately service all
sleeping areas; at a minimum one detector shall be located on each level of a
rental building, including basements but excluding crawl spaces and unfinished
attics.
   (C)   Providing, installing and maintaining smoke detectors.
      (1)   The owner of a rental building shall be responsible for supplying
and installing in an operable condition the required smoke detector(s).
      (2)   The owner of a rental building shall be responsible for maintenance
and testing of detectors, in accordance with manufacturer's instructions, which
are located in common areas and/or detectors in dwelling units and/or rooming
units where the occupancy of any one tenant is for less than one month.
      (3)   The tenant in any occupancy of one month or more shall be
responsible for maintaining and testing the detector(s), in accordance with
manufacturer's instructions, the tenancy. The tenant shall be responsible for
notifying the owner in writing when a detector(s) become(s) inoperable, where
after the owner has ten days in which to repair or replace in operable
condition said detector(s). In the battery- operated type of detector, battery
replacement shall be the responsibility of the tenant.
      (4)   At every change of tenancy, where the occupancy of any one tenant
is of one month or more, it shall be the duty of the owner to test and
ascertain that those detectors contained in the unit are in operable condition,
and if not, the owner shall be responsible for placing them in operable
condition.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92; Am. Ord. 21-2008, passed 12-8-08)
§ 156.61 RESPONSIBILITIES OF PERSONS.
   The provisions of §§
156.61 through
156.63 shall govern the responsibilities of persons for the maintenance of
structures, and the equipment and premises thereof.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.62 SANITARY CONDITION.
   (A)   Cleanliness. Every occupant of a structure or part thereof shall keep
that part of the structure or premises thereof which the individual occupies,
controls or uses in a clean and sanitary condition. Every owner of a structure
containing two or more rental units shall maintain in a clean and sanitary
condition the shared or public areas of the structure and premises thereof.
   Exception: The occupants in a structure with a common leasing agreement and
common bathroom, hallway and/or kitchen shall maintain the common areas,
equipment and fixtures in a clean and sanitary condition. (Housing Code §
152.37)
   (B)   Disposal of garbage, refuse and rubbish. Every occupant of a structure
or part thereof shall dispose of all garbage, refuse and rubbish in a clean and
sanitary manner in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Code of
Ordinances. (Housing Code §
152.38)
   (C)   Garbage, refuse and rubbish storage facilities. Every owner of a
rental building containing more than eight rental units shall supply approved
refuse containers sufficient to meet the reasonable needs of the occupants. If
city refuse collection is not available, the owner shall be responsible for the
removal of the garbage, refuse and rubbish. (Code of Ordinances,
Chapter 50, Trash Collection)
   (D)   Garbage, refuse and rubbish storage. Every occupant of a single-family
structure or duplex shall supply approved refuse containers for storage of
garbage, refuse and rubbish and shall properly dispose of the garbage, refuse
and rubbish. If city refuse collection is not available, the owner shall be
responsible for the removal of the garbage, refuse and rubbish. (Code of
Ordinances,
Chapter 50)
   (E)   Supplied fixtures and equipment. The owner or occupant of a structure
or part thereof shall keep the supplied equipment and fixtures clean and
sanitary and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in their
proper use and operation.
Exception: The occupant shall be responsible for keeping the supplied equipment
and fixtures clean and sanitary provided that the owner furnishes the Housing
Code Office with documentation that the equipment and fixtures were clean and
sanitary prior to the occupant taking possession of dwelling.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92; Am. Ord. 21-2008, passed 12-8-08)
§ 156.63 EXTERMINATION.
   (A)   General. All structures and premises shall be kept free from insect
and rodent infestation, and where insects or rodents are found, they shall be
promptly exterminated by acceptable processes which will not be injurious to
human health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent
reinfestation.
   (B)   Owner. The owner of any structure shall be responsible for
extermination within the structure prior to renting, leasing, assigning, or
selling structure.
   (C)   Tenant-occupant. The tenant-occupant of any structure shall be
responsible for the continued insect and rodent-resistant condition of the
structure and if the tenant occupant fails to maintain the insect and rodent-
resistant condition, the cost of additional extermination shall be the
responsibility of the tenant-occupant.
   (D)   Single-family dwelling.
      (1)   The occupant shall be responsible for extermination of insects,
rodents, vermin or other pests in the structure and on the premises where:
         (a)   The first observable signs of infestation appear more than 30
days after the occupant takes possession of the premises; or,
         (b)   The first observable signs of infestation appear within 30 days
after the occupant takes possession of the premises, and the occupant fails to
notify the owner of infestation within the 30-day period; or
         (c)   The owner, after being notified pursuant to division (b) above,
has undertaken extermination which eliminated infestation within 45 days after
the extermination began; or
         (d)   Whenever the Code Official determines that infestation was
caused by the occupant's violation of housekeeping provisions of the Rental
Housing Code, regardless of when the infestation occurs or is reported to the
owner.
      (2)   The owner shall be responsible for extermination where:
         (a)   The occupant notifies the owner of the infestation within 30
days of the occupant's occupancy; or
         (b)   After the owner has been notified pursuant to division (a)
above, infestation still exists 45 days after extermination was commenced;
except that if the owner presents the Housing Code Office with proof that a
satisfactory effort was made to control the infestation, then the occupant
shall be responsible for further extermination if continued infestation is
attributable to the occupant.
   (E)   Multiple occupancy. Every owner, agent or operator of a structure
containing two or more rental units shall be responsible for the extermination
of insects, rodents or other pests in the shared or public areas of the
structure and premises. The owner shall be responsible for extermination within
each rental unit, except that where an occupant's poor housekeeping has caused
infestation, the occupant shall be responsible for extermination within the
occupant's rental unit.
   (F)   Continued rodent infestation. Continuing or repeated incidents of
rodent infestation shall require the installation of rat and vermin resistant
walls. The rat and vermin resistant walls shall be installed in accordance with
building codes.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of §§
156.01 through
156.63 shall, be subject to a fine of not more than $250 for each violation
listed. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense
or offenses.
(Ord. 27-92, passed 9-14-92; Am. Ord. 38-2015, passed 12-14-15)
CHAPTER 157: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
157.01   Definitions
   
157.02   Application of regulations
Permit Requirements
   
157.03   Permits and fees
Sign Regulations
   
157.04   Purpose and intent
   
157.05   Zoning regulations
   
157.06   Setback regulations
   
157.07   Building signage
   
157.08   Historic Preservation District regulations
   
157.09   Maintenance
Prohibited Signs
   
157.10   Billboards and off-premises signs
   
157.11   Valid nonconforming signs
Administration
   
157.12   Appeals
   
157.13   Appeal powers
   
157.14   Review of decisions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign which includes action or motion by design in that
such sign physically moves in its entirety, or partially, or by video display
of movement. For purposes of this chapter, this term does not refer to flashing
signs.
   AREA OF SIGN. The area of the largest single face of the sign within a
perimeter which forms the outside shape including frame, forming an integral
part of the display, but excluding the necessary supports or uprights on which
the sign may be placed. If the sign consists of more than one section or
module, all areas will be totaled.
   AWNING. A temporary or permanent shelter or decorative feature supported
entirely from the exterior wall of a building and composed of rigid or nonrigid
materials.
   AWNING SIGN. A sign affixed, painted or imprinted upon an awning surface.
   BANNER SIGN. A sign composed of flexible material with or without a frame.
   BILLBOARD. A sign which advertises goods, products, services, facilities,
businesses, entertainment or attractions which are not available on the
premises where the sign is located. This does not include directional signs
located off the business premises.
   BUILDING SIGN. A sign affixed to a building, including, but not limited to,
wall, awning, projecting, roof and window signs.
   BUILDING WALL. The entire area on the side of a building, including window
areas.
   CANOPY. A shelter attached to a building and projecting three feet or more
from a building wall.
   CHANGEABLE SIGN. A sign upon which copy is changed on location. The changing
is limited to repainting, rearranging message or replacing panels.
   DISTRICT. The Historical Preservation District within the city.
   DOUBLE-FACED SIGNS. A sign with two surfaces placed back-to-back or v-shaped
with the common angle no greater than 90 degrees.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER. A sign, usually computer controlled, comprised of
individual light sources, capable of displaying multiple intermittent messages.
   FLASHING SIGN. Any sign which contains an intermittent or flashing light
source, or which includes the illusion of intermittent light source.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign mounted on a pole or post which is part of the
sign and supports the sign either by brackets, rods or a frame.
   GROUND SIGNS. Signs which are self-supporting and whose base is attached to
a footer or foundation. This does not include signs supported by a pole, pylon,
or other device.
   HANDBILL. An announcement of an activity printed on 8½ x 11-inch paper.
   HANGING SIGN. A sign which hangs perpendicular to and away from the building
wall and extends therefrom.
   INDUSTRIAL CENTER. An area containing industries grouped together and
providing off-street parking facilities in common for all the industries and
their customers.
   LINEAL FRONT FOOTAGE. The straight line measurement on a single plane from
one end of the front of a building to the other end of the front of the
building.
   MISCELLANEOUS ATTENTION-GETTING DEVICE. Balloons, pennants, banners,
stringers, or
any other device to attract attention, other than a standard conforming sign.
   NEW BUSINESS SIGN. A temporary sign announcing the opening of a new
business.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A sign that is not located upon the same lot as the
building or businesses which it advertises or refers to. This does not include
directional signs located off the business premises.
   OFFICE CENTER. An area containing offices grouped together and providing
off-street parking facilities in common for all the offices and their
customers.
   OPEN/CLOSED SIGN. A temporary sign indicating whether an establishment is
conducting business.
   OWNER. A person recorded as such on official records and including any
authorized agent of an owner.
   POLE OR PYLON SIGN. A site erected on a freestanding frame, mast or pole and
not attached to any building.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign designed or constructed to be easily moved from one
location to another, including signs mounted upon or designed to be mounted
upon a trailer, wheeled carriage, or other motorized or non-motorized mobile
structure. A portable sign which has its wheels removed shall still be
considered a portable sign.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign which is attached to, and projects from, a building
face.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected upon, against or directly above a roof, or an
top of or above the parapet of a building.
   ROTATING SIGN. Any sign or portion of a sign which moves in a revolving or
similar manner.
   SALE SIGN. A temporary sign announcing a sale.
   SHOPPING CENTER. An area containing stores, restaurants, or other places of
business grouped together and providing off -street parking facilities in
common for all the businesses and their customers.
   SIGN. Every device, letter, word, number, figure, mark, design, picture,
trademark, or reading matter, which is used or intended to be used to attract
attention or convey information, and every announcement, declaration,
demonstration, display, illustration, insignia, flag, banner, pennant, streamer
or other device used to advertise or promote the interest of any person,
business or commercial enterprise, when any of the above are placed so that
they are clearly visible to the general public from an out-of-doors position.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure which supports, has supported, or is capable
of supporting a sign.
   SPARKLING SIGN. A sign which gleams, shines, flashes, glitters or glistens.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign which is not permanently affixed to the ground or to
a building and which serves to temporarily advertise or attract attention.
Includes but is not limited to banners, pennants, flags, sandwich-type signs,
stake signs, posters, balloons, other air or gas-filled figures, handbills,
“sale” signs, “open or closed" signs, "new business" signs, and similar
devices. National, state or political subdivision flags and portable signs are
not considered temporary signs.
   WALL SIGN. A sign attached to or erected against the wall of a building with
the face in a parallel plane to the plane of the building wall.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign installed or painted upon or behind a window for viewing
from outside the premises. This term does not include merchandise located in a
window.
(Ord. 1-2000, passed 3-13-00)
§ 157.02 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   No sign shall be erected or altered except in conformance with this chapter.
Any sign that is moved to another location either on the same premises or on
different premises shall be considered a new sign and a permit shall be secured
for any work performed in connection therewith.
(Ord. 1-2000, passed 3-13-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
§ 157.03 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   Signs requiring permits. Except as permitted in division (B) of this
section, no person shall erect within the city any sign or structure erected
for advertising purposes or upon which any advertisement is shown, painted or
displayed in any way without first obtaining a permit from the City Inspector.
   (B)   Signs not requiring permits.
      (1)   Real estate signs - “For Sale.”
      (2)   Identification or entrance signs.
      (3)   Builders' signs.
      (4)   Subdivision monument/entryway signs.
      (5)   Directional/instructional signs.
      (6)   Garage sale signs.
      (7)   Grand opening signs.
      (8)   Window signage.
      (9)   Valid nonconforming signs.
      (10)    Political, civic, charitable and religious organization signs.
      (11)    Banners.
      (12)    Miscellaneous attention-getting devices.
   (C)   Application/submittal requirements.
      (1)   Information to be shown. An application for permit shall be made to
the City Inspector's office and shall contain full information concerning the
design, materials, construction, location and dimensions of the sign. All
freestanding pole/pylon signs must have a valid land usage permit issued from
the County Area Plan Commission prior to submission of the City Inspector's
office. The application shall also contain the name, address and telephone
number of the owner and/or lessee of the sign and land on which the sign is to
be located.
      (2)   Site plan. A site plan is required which shall contain the
following:
         (a)   Scale and north arrow.
         (b)   Address of site.
         (c)   All property lines.
         (d)   Proposed ingress/egress to the site showing traffic flow.
         (e)   Location of all buildings/structures on the site.
         (f)   Location and height of proposed signage on the site, complete
with setbacks.
         (g)   Location and height of all lettering and graphics.
         (h)   Wind stress calculations: wind stress calculation for any sign
exceeding 65 square feet.
         (i)   Sign drawing.
      (3)   Fees. Permit fees shall be as follows except as indicated in
specific sections: All signs will be figured at $25 plus $0.50 per square foot
of signage.
(Ord. 1-2000, passed 3-13-00; Am. Ord. 16-2008, passed 10-14-08) Penalty, see §
10.99
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 157.04 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   These regulations are established for all signs located on any premises as a
reasonable and impartial means to permit adequate communication, to control
confusing sign displays which present hazard to pedestrians and motorists along
streets and at intersections, to ensure light, air, and open space, to protect
the natural beauty and environment of the city, to safeguard and enhance
property values, to protect public and private investment in buildings and open
spaces, and to protect the public health safety, and general welfare.
(Ord. 1-2000, passed 3-13-00)
§ 157.05 ZONING REGULATIONS.
   Within the Residential District the following regulations shall apply:
   (A)   Only one sign may be erected or maintained on any single property.
   (B)   No sign shall be erected or maintained between the curb and the
sidewalk.
   (C)   No sign shall be illuminated.
   (D)   No sign shall be erected nearer to the sidewalk than a point
equidistant between the nearest edge of the sidewalk and the nearest edge of a
building on the premises.
(Ord. 1-2000, passed 3-13-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 157.06 SETBACK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The leading edge of the proposed sign shall not be less than eight
feet from the public right-of- way on both the front and side property lines.
   (B)   No sign shall be erected or maintained in any form or at any location
where it may obstruct or in any way interfere with the view of or be confused
with any approved traffic-control device.
   (C)   Signs shall comply with the sight distance standards of the sight
triangle as shown below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b0c38c68a3b5dd5693e673f4e8aa8ac1f585b1dd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5638.jpg]
 
(Ord. 1-2000, passed 3-13-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 157.07 BUILDING SIGNAGE.
   Total sign allocations based upon building mass shall be as follows:
   (A)   Location, size, and variety of all signs existing upon the building
frontage are included in the total sign allocations.
   (B)   For every two lineal feet of building frontage, one square foot of
signage is allowed.
(Ord. 1-2000, passed 3-13-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 157.08 HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   All proposed signs to be placed within the Historical District must conform
to the regulations of the Historic Review Board in §§
151.35 and
151.36.
(Ord. 1-2000, passed 3-13-00)
§ 157.09 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All signs must be kept clean, neatly painted, and free from all
hazards, such as but not limited to faulty wiring and loose fastenings, and
must be maintained at all times in such safe condition so as not to be
detrimental to the public health or safety.
   (B)   All signs must meet all electrical codes.
(Ord. 1-2000, passed 3-13-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
PROHIBITED SIGNS
§ 157.10 BILLBOARDS AND OFF-PREMISES SIGNS.
   Billboards and off-premises signs are prohibited within the city.
(Ord. 1-2000, passed 3-13-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 157.11 VALID NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Any sign which does not conform to the regulations embodied in this
chapter and which is designated valid nonconforming shall either be removed or
brought into compliance with these requirements at such time as any new
development, expansion, or change in use occurs on the property upon which the
sign is located. Valid nonconforming signs may not be expanded, which includes
any increase in height, altered, or relocated.
   (B)   Any existing valid nonconforming sign can be replaced with modern
technology, not to exceed the original height and number of panels.
(Ord. 1-2000, passed 3-13-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 157.12 APPEALS.
   Any decision of the City Inspector in the enforcement of the zoning code may
be appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals by any person claiming to be
adversely impacted by that decision. Any appeal must be made within 30 days of
the adverse decision.
(Ord. 9-2000, passed 5-14-01)
§ 157.13 APPEAL POWERS.
   In exercising its powers, the Board of Zoning Appeals may reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination appealed from, as in its opinion ought to be done in the
premises, and to that end shall have all the powers of the City Inspector from
whom the appeal is taken.
(Ord. 9-2000, passed 5-14-01)
§ 157.14 REVIEW OF DECISIONS.
   Every decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be subject to review by
certiorari.
(Ord. 9-2000, passed 5-14-01)
CHAPTER 158: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 159: ZONING CODE
Section
   
159.01   Adoption by reference
§ 159.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Zoning Ordinance of Knox County, Indiana, as adopted by Ordinance 10-
2012, passed May 14, 2012, is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this code the same as if set forth in full herein.
(Ord. 10-2012, passed 5-14-12)
CHAPTER 160: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
160.01   Statutory authorization
   
160.02   Statement of purpose
   
160.03   Definitions
   
160.04   Duties of the Administrator
   
160.05   Regulatory flood elevation
   
160.06   Improvement location permit
   
160.07   Preventing increased damage
   
160.08   Protecting buildings
   
160.09   Other development requirements
   
160.10   Variances
   
160.11   Disclaimer of liability
   
160.12   Violations
   
160.13   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
160.14   Separability
   
160.15   Effective date
§ 160.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Indiana Legislature granted the power to local units of government (I.C.
36-7-4) to control land use within their jurisdictions in order to accomplish
the following.
(Ord. 29-1994, passed 10-24-94; Am. Ord. 1-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 160.02 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to guide development in the flood hazard
areas in order to reduce the potential for loss of life and property, reduce
the potential for health and safety hazards, and to reduce the potential for
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief. Under the
authority granted to local units of government to control land use within their
jurisdiction, which includes taking into account the effects of flooding, the
Board hereby adopts the following floodplain management regulations in order to
accomplish the following:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood-damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating flood blighted areas; and
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available for structures
and their contents in the City of Vincennes by fulfilling the requirements of
the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 29-1994, passed 10-24-94; Am. Ord. 1-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 160.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including but not limited to:
      (1)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a building or any
addition to a building;
      (2)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
      (3)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction of
roads, or similar projects;
      (4)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements. etc.;
      (5)   Mining, dredging. filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
      (6)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
      (7)   Storage of materials; or
      (8)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
   DEVELOPMENT. Does not include activities such as the maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities such as painting, reroofing, resurfacing roads, or
gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not involve
filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent buildings.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of this chapter.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FBFM. Flood Boundary and Floodway Map.
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FHBM. Flood Hazard Boundary Map.
   FIRM. Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE OR THE "FPG." The elevation of the regulatory flood
plus two feet at any given location in the Special Flood Hazard Area.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the floodway fringe districts.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the
floodway.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment to the currently effective FEMA
map that establishes that a property is not located in a Special Flood Hazard
Area (SFHA). A LOMA is only issued by FEMA.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations
and elevations.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest of the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest floor of the building
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the building;
      (4)   The top of the first floor or of buildings elevated on pilings or
constructed on a crawl space with permanent openings; or
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure below an elevated
building where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to the flow of
flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters,
by providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows)
having a total area of one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area
subject to flooding. The bottom of all such openings shall be no higher than
one foot above grade.
      (b)   Such enclosed space shall be usable for the parking of vehicles and
building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. MANUFACTURED HOME
does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of this chapter.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)    Built on a single chassis;
      (2)    400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)    Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)    Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a one percent probability of being
equalled or exceeded in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure
which is acceptable to and approved by the Indiana Natural Resources Commission
and the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at
any location is as defined in § 160.05 of this chapter. The REGULATORY FLOOD is
also known by the term BASE FLOOD.
   SFHA OR SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Those lands within the jurisdiction of
the City of Vincennes that are subject to inundation by the regulatory flood.
The SFHAs of the City of Vincennes are generally identified as such on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map of the City of Vincennes prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and dated December 18, 1984. The SFHAs of those
parts of unincorporated Knox County that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the City or that may be annexed into the City are generally
identified as such on the Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared for Knox County by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated February 15, 1985.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not
include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of state or
local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements or any alteration of an
historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structures continued designation as an historic structure.
(Ord. 29-1994, passed 10-24-94; Am. Ord. 1-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 160.04 DUTIES OF THE ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Plan Commissioner Director shall implement this chapter and hereafter be
referred to as the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator for the
County of Knox is appointed to review all development and subdivision proposals
to insure compliance with this chapter, including but not limited to the
following duties:
   (A)   Ensure that all development activities within the Special Flood Hazard
Areas of Knox County meet the requirements of this chapter;
   (B)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   (C)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the Indiana
Natural Resources Commission for all development projects subject to §
160.07 of this chapter, and maintain a record of such authorization (either
copy of actual permit or letter of recommendation);
   (D)   Maintain a record of the "as-built" elevation of the top of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all new and/or substantially improved buildings
constructed in the Special Flood Hazard Area. Inspect before, during and after
construction;
   (E)   Maintain a record of the engineer's certificate and the "as-built"
floodproofed elevation of all buildings subject to §
160.08 of this chapter;
   (F)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
improve base flood and floodway data and to improve the administration of this
chapter. Submit reports as required for the National Flood Insurance Program;
   (G)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request regulatory
flood data, Special Flood Hazard Maps, Letters of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letters
of Map Revision (LOMR), copies of Department of Natural Resources permits and
letters of recommendation, federal permit documents, and "as-built" elevation
and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed subject to this chapter.
   (H)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Coordinating Office prior to
the alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of any such
notifications to FEMA.
(Ord. 29-1994, passed 10-24-94; Am. Ord. 1-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 160.05 REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION.
   This chapter's protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below. Whenever a party disagrees
with the best available data, the party submitting the detailed engineering
study needs to replace existing data with better data and submit it to the
Department of Natural Resources for review and approval.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation for each Special Flood Hazard Area
delineated as "AH Zone" or "AO Zone" shall be that elevation (or depth)
delineated on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps of the City of Vincennes.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation for each of the remaining Special Flood
Hazard Areas delineated as an "A Zone" on the Flood Insurance Rate Map of the
City of Vincennes shall be according to the best data available as provided by
the Department of Natural Resources.
   (C)   The regulatory flood elevation and floodway limits for the Special
Flood Hazard Areas of those parts of unincorporated Knox County that are within
the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the City of Vincennes shall be identified
"A Zone" on the 100 year flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of Knox
County dated August 15, 1984 and the corresponding Flood Boundary and Floodway
Maps dated February 15, 1985 prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency.
   (D)   If the Special Flood Hazard Area is delineated as "AH Zone" or "AO
Zone", the elevation (or depth) will be delineated on the County Flood
Insurance Rate Map. If the Special Flood Hazard Area is delineated as "A Zone"
on the County Flood Insurance Rate Map, the regulatory flood elevation shall be
according to the best data available as provided by the Department of Natural
Resources.
(Ord. 29-1994, passed 10-24-94; Am. Ord. 1-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 160.06 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by state law
shall commence any development in the Special Flood Hazard Area without first
obtaining an Improvement Location Permit from the Zoning Administrator. The
Zoning Administrator shall not issue an Improvement Location Permit if the
proposed development does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   The application for an Improvement Location Permit shall be
accompanied by the following:
      (1)   A description of the proposed development.
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure in relation to existing roads and streams.
      (3)   A legal description of the property site.
      (4)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades.
      (5)   Elevation of the top of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all proposed development. Elevation should be in National Geodetic Vertical
Datum of 1919 (NGVD) or North American Vertical Datum (NAVD). In either case
the conversion formula should be included.
      (1)   (a)   If the site is in an identified floodway the Zoning
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the applications along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Department of Natural
Resources and apply for a permit for construction in a floodway. Under the
provisions of I.C. 14-28-1-22, a permit from the Natural Resources Commission
is required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any
excavation, deposit, construction or obstruction activity located in the
floodway. This includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading,
clearing and paving etc. undertaken before the actual start of construction of
the building.
         (b)   No action shall be taken by the Zoning Administrator until a
permit has been issued by the Natural Resources Commission granting approval
for construction in the floodway. Once a permit has been issued by the Natural
Resources Commission, the Building Official may issue the local Improvement
Location Permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
160.07 and
160.08 of this chapter have been met. The Improvement Location Permit cannot be
less restrictive than the permit issued by the Natural Resources Commission.
      (2)   If the site is located in an identified floodway fringe, then the
Zoning Administrator may issue the local Improvement Location Permit provided
the provisions contained in §§
160.07 and
160.08 of this chapter have been met. The key provision is that the top of the
lowest floor of any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or
above the Flood Protection Grade (FPG).
      (3)   (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits
of the floodway and floodway fringe have not yet been determined (shown as Zone
A on the Flood Insurance Rate Map), and the drainage area upstream of the site
is greater than one square mile, the Zoning Administrator shall require the
applicant to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and
specifications, to the Department of Natural Resources for review and comment.
         (b)   No action shall be taken by the Zoning Administrator until
either a permit for construction in the floodway or a letter of recommendation
citing the 100 year flood elevation and the recommended Flood Protection Grade
has been received from the Department of Natural Resources.
         (c)   Once the Zoning Administrator has received the proper permit or
letter of recommendation approving the proposed development, an Improvement
Location Permit may be issued provided the conditions of the Improvement
Location Permit are not less restrictive than the conditions received from the
Department of Natural Resources and the provisions contained in §§ 160.07 and
160.08 of this chapter have been met.
   (4) (a)   If the site is an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and floodway fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area
upstream of the site is less than one square mile, the Zoning Administrator
shall require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the
limits of the floodway, floodway fringe and 100 year elevation for the site.
       (b)   Upon receipt, the Zoning Administrator may issue the local
Improvement Location Permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
160.07 and
160.08 of this chapter have been met.
(Ord. 29-1994, passed 10-24-94; Am. Ord. 1-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 160.07 PREVENTING INCREASED DAMAGES
     No development in the Special Flood Hazard Area shall create a damaging or
potentially damaging increase in flood heights or velocity or threat to public
health or safety.
   (A)   Within the floodway identified on the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map
or the Flood Insurance Rate Map, or engineering analysis as provided in §
160.06(B)(4), the following standards shall apply:
      (1)   No development shall be allowed which acting alone or in
combination with existing or future development, will cause any increase in the
elevation of the regulatory flood; and
      (2)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the city shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data.
   (B)   Within all Special Flood Hazard Areas identified as A Zones (no 100
year flood elevation and/or floodway/floodway fringe delineation has been
provided) the following standard shall apply:
      (1)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the regulatory flood elevation more than one-tenth (0.1) of one foot and will
not increase flood damages or potential flood damages.
   (C)   Public health standards in all Special Flood Hazard Areas:
      (1)   No development in the Special Flood Hazard Area shall include
locating or storing chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable
liquids, pollutants, or other hazardous or toxic materials below the Flood
Protection Grade, unless such materials are stored in a floodproofed storage
tank or building constructed according to the requirements of §
160.08 of this chapter.
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewer lines and on-site waste disposal
systems may be permitted providing all manholes or other above ground openings
are located above the Flood Protection Grade, or those which are located below
the Flood Protection Grade are watertight.
(Ord. 29-1994, passed 10-24-94; Am. Ord. 1-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 160.08 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
160.07, all buildings to be located in the Special Flood Hazard Area shall be
protected from flood damage below the Flood Protection Grade.
   (A)   This building protection requirement applies to the following
situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any new building having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   Structural alterations made to an existing building that increase
the market value of the building by more than 50% (excluding the value of the
land);
         (a)   An existing (previously unaltered) building the cost of which
equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the pre-altered building (excluding the
value of the land);
         (b)   Any previously altered building;
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged building that are
valued at more than 50% of the market value of the building (excluding the
value of the land) before the damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage; and
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days.
   (B)   This building protection requirement may be met by one of the
following methods. The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of
compliance with these building protection standards as required in §
160.04 of this chapter.
      (1)   A residential or nonresidential building may be constructed on a
permanent land fill in accordance with the following:
         (a)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with the Standard
Proctor Test method.
         (b)   The fill should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
of the building before sloping below the Flood Protection Grade.
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than 3 horizontal to 1 vertical.
         (d)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
         (e)   The top of the lowest floor including basements (see definition
of lowest floor in §
160.03) shall be at or above the Flood Protection Grade.
      (2)   A residential or nonresidential building may be elevated in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on posts, piers,
columns, extended walls, or other types of similar foundation provided:
            1.   Walls of any enclosure below the elevated floor shall be
designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on the walls by
allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters, through providing a minimum of
two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) having a total area of one
square inch for every two square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding. The
bottom of all such openings shall be no higher than one foot above grade.
            2.   Any enclosure below the elevated floor is used for storage of
vehicles and building access.
         (b)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize
exposure to known hydrostatic forces such as buoyancy, current, waves, ice, and
floating debris.
         (c)   All areas below the Flood Protection Grade shall be constructed
of materials resistant to flood damage. The top of the lowest floor (including
basement) and all electrical, heating, ventilating, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at or above the
Flood Protection Grade. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities may be located
below the Flood Protection Grade.
      (3)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or
substantially improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the
following anchoring requirements:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the Flood Protection
Grade and securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to
resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. This requirement applies to
all manufactured homes to be placed on a site:
            1.   Outside a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
            3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
            4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a flood.
         (b)   (1)   This requirement applies to all manufactured homes to be
placed on a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has
not been substantially damaged by a flood.
       (2) The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elements that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (4)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on the site for less than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes in division (B)(3)
of this section.
      (5)   A nonresidential building may be floodproofed to the Flood
Protection Grade (in lieu of elevating) if done in accordance with the
following:
         (a)   A Registered Professional Engineer shall certify that the
building has been designed so that below the Flood Protection Grade, the
structure and attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of
resisting the effects of the regulatory flood. The building design shall take
into account flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures,
and impacts from debris or ice.
         (b)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
(Ord. 29-1994, passed 10-24-94; Am. Ord. 1-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 160.09 OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENT
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall review all proposed subdivisions to
determine whether the subdivision lies in a flood hazard area as defined
elsewhere by ordinance. If the Zoning Administrator finds the subdivision to be
so located, the Zoning Administrator shall forward plans and materials to the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for review and comment. The Zoning
Administrator shall require appropriate changes and modifications in order to
assure that:
      (1)   It is consistent with the need to minimize flood damages;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards;
      (4)   Onsite waste disposal systems, if provided, will be so located and
designed to avoid impairment of them or contamination from them during the
occurrence of the regulatory flood.
   (B)   Developers shall record the 100 year flood elevation on all
subdivision plats containing lands (identified elsewhere by this chapter)
within a flood hazard area prior to submitting the plats for approval by the
Plan Commission.
   (C)   All owners of manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within
the Special Flood Hazard Area identified as Zone A on the community's Flood
Hazard Boundary Map or Flood Insurance Rate Map shall develop an evacuation
plan for those lots located in the Special Flood Hazard Area and file it with
the local Plan Commission and have it filed with and approved by the
appropriate community emergency management authorities.
(Ord. 29-1994, passed 10-24-94; Am. Ord. 1-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 160.10 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may consider issuing a variance to the
terms and provisions of this chapter provided the applicant demonstrates that:
      (1)   There exists a good and sufficient cause for the requested
variance;
      (2)   The strict application of the terms of this chapter will constitute
an exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      (3)   The granting of the requested variance will not increase flood
heights, create additional threats to public safety, cause additional public
expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public, or
conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may issue a variance to the terms and
provisions of this chapter subject to the following standards and conditions:
      (1)   No variance or exception for a residential use within a floodway
subject to §
160.07(A) or (B) of this chapter may be granted.
      (2)   Any variance or exception granted in a floodway subject to §
160.07(A) or (B) of this chapter will require a permit from the Department of
Natural Resources.
      (3)   Variances or exceptions to the Building Protection Standards of §
160.08 may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the Flood Protection Grade.
      (4)   Variances or exceptions may be granted for the reconstruction or
restoration of any structure individually listed on the Register of Historic
Places or the Indiana State Survey of Historic Architectural, Archaeological
and Cultural Sites, Structures, Districts, and Objects.
      (5)   All variances shall give the minimum relief necessary and be such
that the maximum practical flood protection will be given to the proposed
construction.
      (6)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall issue a written notice to the
recipient of a variance or exception that the proposed construction will be
subject to increased risks to life and property and could require payment of
increased flood insurance premiums.
(Ord. 29-1994, passed 10-24-94; Am. Ord. 1-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 160.11 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the community, Department of Natural Resources, or the
State of Indiana, for any flood damage that results from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 29-1994, passed 10-24-94; Am. Ord. 1-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 160.12 VIOLATIONS.
   Failure to obtain an Improvement Location Permit in the Special Flood Hazard
Area or failure to comply with the requirements of a permit or conditions of a
variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All violations
shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in accordance with
the provisions of the Zoning Code for the City of Vincennes. All violations
shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $500 per day.
   (A)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (B)   The Knox Area Plan Commission shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and thereafter
may cause coverage by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy to be suspended.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the County of Knox from taking such other
lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 29-1994, passed 10-24-94; Am. Ord. 1-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 160.13 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter repeals and replaces any other ordinances adopted by the Common
Council, City of Vincennes to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program. However, this chapter does not repeal the original
resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the Program. Nor does
this chapter repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants,
or deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall take precedence. In addition, the Common Council of City of
Vincennes shall assure that all National Flood Insurance regulations (44 CFR
60) as well as Indiana laws and regulations regarding floodplain issues (312
IAC 10, I.C. 14-28-1 and I.C. 14-28-3) are met.
(Ord. 29-1994, passed 10-24-94; Am. Ord. 1-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 160.14 SEPARABILITY.
   The provisions and sections of this chapter shall be deemed separable and
the invalidity of any portion of this chapter shall not affect the validity of
the remainder.
(Ord. 29-1994, passed 10-24-94; Am. Ord. 1-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 160.15 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect upon its passage by the Common Council, City
of Vincennes.
(Ord. 29-1994, passed 10-24-94; Am. Ord. 1-2003, passed 4-14-03)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   ANNEXATIONS
         
II.   STREET VACATIONS
         
III.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
         
IV.   AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
4-1969   - -69       Annexing 620 and 622 Old Wheatland Road.
13-1969  - -69       Annexing Brown Shoe property on Old Wheatland Road.
27-1969  - -69       Annexing 624 Old Wheatland Road.
38-1969  - -69       Annexing the Ken Meyer Mobile Home Park.
43-1969  - -69       Annexing the Forrest Ashby Mobile Home Park on Main Street
                     Road.
1-1971   1-25-71     Annexing part of northern location 144, township 3 N.,
                     range 10 west of the second Meridian.
3-1972   2-28-72     Annexing Benjamin's Trailer Park.
17-1972  6-12-72     Annexing Old Ft. Knox Site.
25-1972  6-24-72     Annexing 5th and Willow Streets.
29-1972  8-14-72     Annexing 3126 Hillcrest Road.
58-1973  10-15-73    Annexing Long John Silvers, 2705 N. 6th Street.
59-1973  10-15-73    Annexing 711 Old Wheatland Road.
21-1974  6-10-74     Annexing Eastgate, and the like.
24-1974  7-8-74      Annexing city dump.
32-1976  7-26-76     Annexing Crestview Nursing Home.
57-1976  - -76       Annexing new city limits to date but not including
                     Crestview Nursing Home.
43-1976  - -76       Annexing Crestview Nursing Home
19-1977  3-14-77     Annexing 2713 N. 6th St., Captain D's.
30-1977  4-11-77     Annexing B. Niehaus Property (route 50 East).
55-1977  8-8-77      Annexing Knights of Columbus, Felt King Road.
21-1978  3-13-78     Annexing Orchard Heights Subdivision.
27-1978  3-27-78     Annexing Old Bruceville Road — Dale Estates.
11-1979  4-9-79      Annexing Old River Road to sewer plant.
51-1979  10-22-79    Annexing proposed New Lincoln High School property.
63-1979  11-13-79    Annexing Executive Inn property.
72-1979  12-10-79    Annexing Green's Apartments, Old 41 (3015 N. 6th Street).
28-1980  5-27-80     Annexing Executive Drive.
19-1982  4-26-82     Annexing Wal-Mart store.
47-1983  11-15-83    Annexing Rolling Meadows subdivision.
32-94    10-24-94    Annexing a part of fractional section 34 and 35 and part
                     of survey 24, 23, North, Range 10 West.
33-94    10-25-94    Annexing a part of Upper Prairie Survey Twenty, Township 3
                     North, Range 10 West.
34-94    11-15-94    Annexing a part of Upper Prairie Survey Twenty, Township 3
                     North, Range 10 West.
6-95     3-27-95     Annexing the real estate commonly known as Squirel Creek
                     Inc.
25-97    9-8-97      Annexing a part of Lots 35 and 54 in Division "B" of the
                     Vincennes Common Lands, Township 3 North, Range 10 West.
                     Annexing certain real estate located in a part of Upper
7-98     1-26-98     Prairie Survey 20 and Survey 49, Township 3 North, Range
                     10 West, Second Principal Meridian.
                     8-24-98Annexing certain real estate, located in a part of
PT:11>   36-98       Upper Prairies Surveys 17, 18, 19, 20 and 49, Township 3
                     North, Range 10 West, Second Principal Meridian.
40-98    9-28-98     Annexing two tracts of real estate:
                   (1) Part of Survey 24 and part of Fractional Section 34,
                     Township 3 North, Range 10 West;
                   (2) Part of Survey 24 and Fractional Section 34, all in
                     Township 3 North, Range 10 West.
                     Annexing certain real estate, part of Surveys 24, 39 and
3-99     2-8-99      43 and part of Section 34 and 35, Township 3 North, Range
                     10 West.
4-99     2-8-99      Annexing certain real estate, part of Survey 24, Township
                     3 North, Range 10 West.
6-99     3-8-99      Annexing two tracts of real estate:
                   (1) Part of Lot 10, Division "B," Vincennes Commons Lands
                     in Township 3 North, Range 10 West;
                     (2) Commencing at the Northwest corner of LaPlante and
                   Joice Third Subdivision, containing 0.76 acres, more or
                     less.
                     Annexing certain property located in Knox County, Indiana
13-2021  8-23-21     as described in Exhibit A attached to this Ordinance 13-
                     2021.
                     Annexing certain property located in Knox County, Indiana
2-2022   3-23-22     as described in Exhibit A attached to this Ordinance 2-
                     2022.
                    
 
TABLE II: STREET VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
1116  11-6-  Vacating and relocating a street adjacent to and northeast of exiting Oliphant
      61     — Wagner property line.
45-   12-10- Vacating portions of Dubois Street, Nicholas Street and First Street.
1968  68
2-91  1-28-  Vacating an alleyway in Herbert Bluebaum's subdivision being 210.5' x 10' plus
      91     a cul-de-sac.
3-91  4-8-91 Vacating a portion of Cullop Street.
4-91  4-8-91 Vacating a portion of Indianapolis Avenue.
5-91  4-22-  Vacating portions of Locust Street, Short Street, and an alley.
      91
14-91 8-12-  Vacating a portion of Sycamore Street and a portion of Short Street.
      91
13-92 6-8-92 Vacating a portion of Bayou Street.
24-92 8-14-  Vacating an alley being a part of lot 57 in Utterback's subdivision.
      92
25-92 9-14-  Vacating an unused portion of a platted public way in Osterhage Long View
      92     Acres Subdivision.
29-93 11-23- Vacating a portion of a public platted alley.
      93
10-94 4-26-  Vacating a 30 foot roadway easement lying northeast of and parallel to the
      94     northeastern 37.5 foot easement for Mantle Ditch.
16-94 6-14-  Vacating a platted alley-way in the New Vincennes subdivision.
      94
9-96  2-27-  Vacating a portion of a ten-foot wide public alley, running the entire
      96     distance between old town lots 189 and 188.
18-97 7-28-  Vacating a portion of Locust Street.
      97
12-   6-12-  Vacating an alley-way running between lots 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13,
2000  00     14, 15 and 16 in Willy's Addition to the city.
24-   7-24-  Vacating a portion of Meyer Street and a platted alley between Meyer Street
2000  00     and St. Clair Street.
27-   11-27- Vacating a strip of property running between lots 4, 5, and 6 and between lots
2000  00     11, 12, and 13 in Tindolph and Green's Subdivision.
14-   7-9-01 Vacating a portion of platted streets known as Perry and Buntin Streets
2001         between First Street and the Wabash River.
             Vacating a portion of the following streets: Eighth Street, Bayou Street, and
24-   11-12- Nicholas Street, subject to the city being provided access to the Hospital for
2002  02     fire equipment and emergency vehicles, and subject further to the Hospital
             continuing to provide access for existing utilities or relocating the
             utilities at the Hospital's expense.
7-    4-14-  Vacating Maple Street, Spring Street, Garden Street and East Street in the
2003  03     Lakeview Subdivision.
7-    5-24-  Vacating a portion of St. Clair Street between First Street and Chestnut
2004  04     Street;
           Vacating a portion of Park Street between Portland Avenue and St. Clair
             Street.
9-    8-9-04 Vacating a portion of 12th Street between Bayou Street and Nicholas Street.
2004
9-    8-8-05 Vacating a portion of Tecumseh Street from the intersection of Chestnut Street
2005         running northwest to the southeast line of the city’s levee right-of-way.
21-   12-19- Vacating a platted alley between Lot 55 and Lots 53 and 54 in Miller and
2005  05     Bayard’s Subdivision.
5-    3-27-  Vacating a portion of Park Street between Lyndale Avenue and Portland Avenue
2006  06     and closing the public alleys bounded by Chestnut Street, First Street,
             Portland Avenue and Lyndale Avenue.
11-   8-28-  Vacating a portion of two public streets known as Eberwine Avenue and Terre
2006  06     Haute Street.
17-   11-27- Vacating a platted alley running from Barnett Street to Dubois Street and the
2006  06     platted alley running between Eighth Street and Ninth Street.
1-    2-12-  Vacating a portion of the platted, public utilities easement located in Lots 3
2007  07     and 5 of the Dixie Orchard Subdivision.
16-   11-13- Vacating a platted alley located between Lots 9, 10 and 11 in Pennington’s
2007  07     Subdivision.
             Closing a portion of Locust Street between First Street and south to the alley
             on the northwest side of Progress Laundry; closing Short Street between
5-    7-14-  Portland Avenue, now known as Red Skelton Boulevard, and Sycamore Street ;
2008  08     closing a portion of Sycamore Street between First Street and south to the
             alley on the northwest side of Progress Laundry; and closing Sycamore Street
             between Short Street and Chestnut Street.
14-   10-14- Vacating a portion of LaPlant Street, a public, platted street, between South
2008  08     14th Street and the alley.
15-   11-10- Closing a portion of Highland Avenue between Red Skelton Boulevard and Lyndale
2008  08     Avenue.
2010- 5-24-  Vacating the alley between Chestnut and Highland Streets.
12    10
2010- 5-24-  Vacating portions of Taylor and Highland Streets.
13    10
19-   9-27-  Vacating a portion of Center Street.
2010  10
08-   9-26-  Vacating the platted alley between Lot 10 and part of Lot 11 in Tolson and
2011  11     Davis Subdivision.
17-   10-24- Vacating the portion of Dubois Street between Seventh Street and Ninth Street.
2011  11
26-   12-12- Vacating the portion of Seventh Street between Prairie Street and Bayou
2011  11     Street.
08-   6-24-  Vacating a portion of Eighth Street between the northeast line of Dubois
2013  13     Street and the northeast line of Barnett Street.
11-   7-8-13 Vacating a strip of ground that runs perpendicular to Perry Street and
2013         Seminary Street and parallel to Ninth Street and Tenth Street.
39-   10-27- Vacating a strip of land being the full width of the public way or place
2014  14     between 3rd and 4th Streets, Scott and Harrison Streets.
21-   6-22-  Vacating a portion of 14th Street.
2015  15
6-    2-22-  Vacating portions of Eberwine Avenue and Day Street.
2016  16
13-   7-23-  Vacating a portion of a platted way, beginning at First and Broadway Street
2018  18     and ending at the Wabash River.
             Vacating the following: a portion of Shelby Street located between the
4-    7-22-  northeast line of 1st Street and the northeast line of 2nd Street; a portion
2019  19     of Shelby Street located between the northeast line of 1st Street and the CSX
             Railroad right- of-way; the strip of land being the full width of the alley
             located between Hart Street and Shelby Street.
10-   8-9-21 Vacating a portion of an alley being the strip of land being the full width of
2021         the alley located between 320 Main Street and 324 Main Street.
6-           Vacating a portion of an alley being the strip of land being the full width of
2023  5-8-23 the alley running parallel to Main Street and Vigo Street and located in
             between 6th Street and 7th Street.
            
 
TABLE III: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date     Description
No.   Passed
734   6-23-41  Lots 18 and 19 in township 3 north, range 10 west zoned residential district.
818   9-22-47  Part of Old Town lot 465 zoned Business District.
845   4-10-49  Property on Church Street from Third to Fifth Streets from business to
               residential district.
855   9-11-51  Part of Old Town lot 144 zoned Business District.
860   1-22-51  Lots 9 and 10 in Willy's Addition from residence to Business District.
883   11-14-52 Lots 276 to 304 in Eberwine's Subdivision from Residence to Manufacturing
               District.
886   2-23-53  Property bounded by Church, Barnet, Third and Fourth Streets are zoned
               business district.
921   10-25-54 Lot 18 in Wilhelm's Addition from Residence to Business District.
945   7-25-55  Old Town lots 1, 2, 7 and 8 from Residence to Manufacturing District.
954   11-14-55 Part of Old Town lots 295 and 344 from Residence to Business District.
988   6-4-57   Part of Old Town lot 359 from Residence to Business District.
991   7-2-57   Part of lots 53, 54, 59 and 60 in Harrison's Addition from Business to
               Manufacturing District.
996   9-3-57   Lot 125 in Government Subdivision from Residence to Business District
1003  1-6-58   Lot 360 from Residence to Business District.
1019  9-2-58   Lot 138 in Harrison's Addition from Residential to Business district.
1023  11-17-58 Lot 45 in Manufacturer's Subdivision from Residential to Business District.
1029  4-7-59   Lot 55 in Miller and Bayard's Subdivision from Residential to Business
               District.
1033  5-7-59   Lots 6 through 10 in Green's Subdivision from Residential to Manufacturing
               District.
1034  4-20-59  Part of Upper Prairie Survey No. 8, township 3, range 10 from Residential to
               Business District.
1035  5-7-59   Part of Lot 146 from Apartment to Business District.
1045  12-21-59 Part of Lots 285 from Residential to Business District.
1050  3-21-60  Part of Lot 379 from Residential to Business District.
1057  3-7-60   Part of Lot 159 from Residential to Apartment District.
1060  7-5-60   Lots 1, 2, and 3 in Schmidt's Subdivision from Residential to Business
               District.
1064  9-19-60  Part of Lot 446 from Residential to Business District.
1113  10-2-61  Part of Lot 61 in Malott's Addition from Residential to Commercial District.
1114  11-6-61  Lot 6 in Manufacturer's Subdivision from Residential to Local Business
               District.
1115  11-6-61  Part of northern location 144, township 3 north, range 10 west from
               Residential to Local Business District.
1099  6-5-61   Part of Upper Prairie Surveys 1, 2, 3, and 4 in township 3, north, range 10
               west from R-1 Residential to C-2 Commercial District.
1130  6-4-62   Part of Lots 105, 106, 123 and 124 in Division A of Vincennes Common Lands
               from R-1 Residential to C-2 Commercial District.
1144  8-6-62   Lots 1, 2, and 3 Meyer's Addition to Woodlawn from R-1 Residential to C-
               2 Commercial District, so long as it is used for Carpenter's Union Hall.
1162  12-17-62 Part of Lot 63 in Division A of Vincennes Common Lots from R-1 Residential to
               C-1 Commercial District.
1171  5-6-63   300-foot strip in Lots 92, 93 and 126 and part of Lots 83 and 84 in Division B
               of Vincennes Commons Lands from Residential to I-2 Industrial District.
1179  8-5-63   Part of Lots 290, Old Town from R-2 Residential to R-3 Residence District.
1180  8-5-63   Part of Upper Prairie Survey 20 and part of Location 144, township 3, north,
               range 10 west from R-1 Residential to C-2 Commercial District.
1188  11-6-63  Part of Lot 77 in Division B of Vincennes Common Lands from R-1 Residence to
               I-1 Industrial District.
1189  12-2-63  Part of Lot 448 in Old Town from R-2 Residential to C-1 Local Business
               District.
1200  1-22-64  Part of location 144, township 3 from R-1 Residence to C-1 Business District.
1203- -64      Lot 8 in Cox's First Subdivision from R-1 Residence to C-1 Business District.
1209  3-18-64  Lot 26 in Mallott Addition from R-1 Residence to R-3 Residence District.
1210  3-17-64  Part of Lot 4 in Watson and Mantle Subdivision from R-1 Residence to R-
               3 Residence District.
1216  5-8-64   Part of location 144, township 3 from R-1 District to C-1 Business District.
1217  5-8-64   Part of Lot 312 in Old Town from R-3 Residence to C-1 Business District.
1218  5-8-64   Lots 3 and 4 in McAndrews Subdivision from R-2 Residence to C-1 Business
               District.
1219  7-8-64   Lots 1 through 4 in Fairview Subdivision from R-1 Residence to C-1 Business
               District.
1225  6- -64   Lots 23 and 24 in manufacturer's Subdivision from R-1 Residence to C-
               1 Business District.
1228- -64      Parts of Lots 3 and 4 in Joice and Risch's Subdivision from R-1 Residence to
               C-2 Business District.
1230- -64      Lots 89 and 90 in Utterback's Subdivision from R-1 Residence to C-2 Business
               District.
1231  8-18-64  Part of Upper Prairie Survey 20 from I-2 Industrial to C-2 Business District.
1232- -64      Part of Lot 125 in Cochran's Addition from R-3 Residence to C-2 Business
               District.
1234- -64      Part of Lot 44 in Division A from R-1 Residence to C-1 Business Zone.
1235- -64      Part of Lower Prairie Survey 1 from R-1 Residence to C-2 Business District.
1239- -64      Part of Lots 104 and 105 in Division B of the Common Lands from R-1 Residence
               to I-1 Industrial District.
1242- -64      To C-2 Business District.
1246- -64      Part of Lot 53, Division C of the Common Lands from RS Suburban District to I-
               2 Industrial District.
1247  2-3-64   Part of Lots 33, 34 and 47 of Common Lands Division C from RS Suburban to C-
               2 Business District.
1260  4-20-65  Lots 9 and 10 in Willy's Addition from R-1 District to C-2 District.
1261  4-21-65  Part of Lots 295 in Old Town from R-2 Residence to R-3 Residence District.
1262- -65      Part of Lots 11, 12 and 13, Willy's Addition from R-1 Residence to C-
               1 Business Zone.
1264  5-5-65   Part of Donations 2 and 23 from C-3 Business to RS Suburban District.
1267  6-22-65  Lot 52 in Willy's Subdivision from R-1 Residence to C-2 Business District.
1269  6-16-65  Part of Lot 22 in Division C of Common Lands from RS Suburban to C-2 Business
               District.
1270  6-16-65  Part of Lower Prairie Survey 1 from R-1 Residence to I-2 Industrial District.
1272- -65      Part of Lots 35 and 54 Common Lands, Division B from R-1 Residence to C-
               2 Business District.
1273- -65      Lots 11 and 12 in Hardigan's Subdivision from R-1 Residence to C-1 Business
               District.
1276  7-14-65  Lot 258 in Cochran's Addition from R-3 Residence to C-1 Business District.
1280- -65      Part of Lots 53 and 71 Common Lands, Division A from R-1 Residence to C-
               2 Business District.
1281- -65      Lots 238, 239 and 240 in South Vincennes Subdivision from R-1 Residence to C-
               2 Business District.
1282  8-18-65  Part of Lots 180 and 181 Common Lands, Division B from RS Suburban to C-
               2 Business District.
1288- -65      Lot 21 in Mallott Addition from R-1 Residence to C-1 Business District.
1301  2-24-66  Lots 10, 11 and 12 in Doll's Subdivision from R-1 Residence to C-2 Business
               District.
1308  3-16-66  Part of Lots 37 and 38 Common Lands, Division A from R-1 Residence to C-
               1 Business District.
1311  4-20-66  Part of Lots 20 and 21 Common Lands, Division C from RS Suburban Zone to C-
               2 Business Zone.
1312  5-18-66  Lot 116 in Cochran's Addition from R-3 Residence to C-1 Business District.
1313  4-20-66  Part of Lots 1, 2, 43 and 46 Common Lands, Division B from R-1 Residence to C-
               3 Business District.
1316  7-19-66  Lot 10 in Hardigan's Subdivision from R-1 Residence to C-2 Business Zone.
1317  7-27-66  Lot 204 in Reel and Swartzel's Subdivision from R-1 Residence to C-2 Business
               District.
1344  2-28-67  Part of Lot 28 Common Lands, Division A from R-1 Residence to C-1 Business
               District.
1345- -67      Part of Lot 317 Old Town from R-1 Residence to C-1 Business District.
1349  3-21-67  Lots 18 and 19 in Lewis Subdivision from R-1 Residence to C-1 District.
1351  4-19-67  Lots 199 and 200 and part of Lots 182 and 198 Common Lands, Division B from RS
               Suburban to I-1 Industrial Zone.
1359  7-18-67  Part of Lots 47 and 48 Common Lands, Division A and Lots 13 to 19 in Reel
               Realty Co.'s first subdivision from R-1 Residence to C-2 Business Districts.
1360  7-18-67  Part of Upper Prairie Survey 20 from I-2 Industrial to C-2 Business District.
1363  8-17-67  Pat of Lot 47 in Government Subdivision from R-1 Residence to C-2 Business
               District.
1364  8-16-67  Part of Lot 294 Old Town from R-2 Residence to C-1 Business District.
5-    3-26-88  Part of Lots 8 to 11 North Side Federal Savings and Loan Association
1968           Subdivision from R-1 Residence to R-2 Residence.
8-    5-13-68  Lot 55 in Miller and Bayard's Subdivision from R-2 Residence to C-2 Business
1968           District.
19-   6-28-68  Part of Lots 48 to 51 Common Lands, Division A from R-1 Residence to C-
1968           2 Business District.
29-   8-12-68  Lots 21 to 23 in South Vincennes Subdivision from R-1 Residence to I-
1968           1 Industrial District.
30-   8-19-68  Part of Lots 2 and 3 in Green's Subdivision from R-1 Residence to R-
1968           2 Residence District.
36-   11-28-68 Part of Lot 453 Old Town from R-2 Residence to R-3 Residence District.
1968
39-   11-28-68 Lots 74 and 75 from C-1 Business to C-2 Business District.
1968
40-   11-28-68 Part of Lot 119 Common Lands, Division B from RS Suburban to C-2 Business
1968           District.
42-   12-30-68 Part of Upper Prairie Survey 12 from R-1 Residence to C-1 Business District.
1968
43-   1-13-69  Lots 1 to 6 in South Vincennes Subdivision from R-1 Residence to C-1 Business
1968           District.
44-   1-16-69  Lots 37 to 40 in Woodlawn Subdivision from R-1 Residence to C-2 Business
1968           District.
46-   1-16-69  Lots 55, 56, 77 and 78 Common Lands, Division B from R-1 Residence to C-
1968           2 Business District.
47-   1-13-69  Part of Lots 18 and 19 Common Lands, Division B from R-1 Residence to C-
1968           2 Business District.
5-    5-28-69  Part of Upper Prairie Surveys 1 to 4 from I-2 Industrial to I-1 Industrial
1969           District.
9-    5-28-69  Part of northern location 144 from R-1 Residential to I-2 Industrial District.
1969
12-   6-10-69  Part of Upper Prairie Surveys 1 to 4 from I-1 Industrial to C-2 Business
1969           District.
16-   9-3-69   Part of Surveys 35 and 36 from RS Suburban to I-2 Industrial Districts.
1969
18-   7-15-69  Lot 26 in Cochran's Addition from R-1 Residence to R-3 Residence District.
1969
23-   9-3-69   Part of Lot 140 Common Lands, Division B from RS Suburban to C-2 Business
1969           District.
24-   8-25-69  Part of Upper Prairie Surveys 16 and 17, 18 and 19, from I-2 Industrial to C-
1969           2 Business District.
30-   10-2-69  Lots 28 and 29 in Willy's Addition from R-1 Residence to C-1 Business
1969           District.
32-   12-22-69 Rezoned from R-1 to C-1 Lot 47 and part of Lots 46, 86 and 87, Vincennes
1969           Common Lands Division B.
33-   10-27-69 Rezoned from R-1 to R-3, part of Upper Prairie Surveys 12 and 13, township 3
1969           north, range 10 west.
36-   11-24-69 Rezoned from R-1 to C-1, Lot 1 and part of Lot 11, Tolson and Davis
1969           Subdivision (limited to present tenancy).
37-   11-24-69 Rezoned from R-3 to C-1, part of Lot 114 Old Town, 400 block South 2nd Street.
1969
41-   1-26-70  Rezoned from I-2 to C-2, area between B&O RR, Kelso Creek and Washington
1969           Avenue.
8-    3-23-70  Rezoned from R-1 to R-3, lot 58 in Stodt-man's Subdivision and Rockledge
1970           Place.
10-   3-23-70  Rezoned from R-1 to R-3, Lot 469 Old Town, 200 block N. 10th Street.
1970
12-   4-13-70  Rezoned from R-S to C-2, part of lots 4 and 5 Government Subdivision and Lot
1970           15 part of lots 16 and 14 in Manhes Subdivision of Prospect Hills Grounds.
13-   5-25-70  Rezoned from R-1 to R-3, Part of northern location 144 of survey 20 township 3
1970           north, range 10 west.
16-   5-25-70  Rezoned R-1 to R-3, part of Upper Prairie Surveys 2, 3, and 4, township 3
1970           north, range 10 west.
17-   6-22-70  Rezoned R-2 to C-2, 1221 North 1st Street (lot 5).
1970
18-   9-14-70  Rezoned R-2 to C-2, 221 Manilla Street (lot 51).
1970
25-   8-24-70  Rezoned R-1 to C-1, 110 North 15th Street.
1970
26-   8-24-70  Rezoned R-1 to C-2, Lots 28 and 29 and strip off lot 30 and strips off lots
1970           72, 73, 30 and 31 in Meyer's Addition to Woodlawn.
27-   8-24-70  Rezoned R-1 to C-2, part of lot 86, Division A, Vincennes Common Lands.
1970
28-   8-24-70  Rezoned RS to I-2, 300 ft. of lots 122, 139 and 164, Division B, Vincennes
1970           Common Lands.
29-   8-24-70  Rezoned RS to I-2, 300 feet of Lot 179, Division B of Vincennes Common Lands.
1970
35-   9-14-70  Rezoned R-1 to C-1, Part of Lots 125, 126, 134, 135, 136, 137 and 138,
1970           Division A, Vincennes Common Lands.
37-   9-14-70  Rezoned R-1 to C-2, Lot 5 of Floyd Combs Subdivisions.
1970
44-   11-23-70 Rezoned R-1 to R-3, Lot 1, Radio Subdivision.
1970
46-   12-14-70 Rezoned R-2 to R-3, 1321, 1329, 1333 north 3rd.
1970
48-   1-25-71  Rezoned R-1 to R-3, part of northern location 144.
1970
49-   12-21-70 Annexing part of Upper Prairie Survey 20, township 3 north, range 10 west,
1970           3.05 acres.
2-    1-25-71  Portion of Upper Surveys 16-17 township 3 north, range 10 west (Cardinal's
1971           Liquor Store).
5-    2-22-71  Portion of Survey 49 township 3 north, range 10 west, rezoned I-2 to C-1
1971           (Holiday Inn).
10-   4-12-71  Lot 474, Old Town, rezoned R-2 to R-3 (Blackburn Apartments).
1971
18-            Lots 87 and 88, Utterback's Subdivision, rezoned C-1 to C-2 (6th and Manilla
1971  9-13-71  Streets, Neon Sign Company) Lots 89-90, Utterback's Subdivision, rezoned R-
               1 to C-2.
19-   7-12-71  Portion of Survey 57 township 3 north, Range 10 west, rezoned R-S to C-2 (KOA
1971           Campgrounds).
26-   10-30-71 Lot 49, Mass and Watson's Subdivision, rezoned R-2 to R-3 (1339 north 3rd
1971           Street, College Manor Apartments).
27-   8-30-71  Lots 1, 2 and 3 Tindolph and Green Subdivision, rezoned R-2 to R-3 (Reeves,
1971           301 West St. Clair Street).
36-   10-26-71 Lot 10, Block 3, Shephard's Subdivision of Rockledge Place, rezoned R-1 to R-
1971           3 (Bridge Avenue at Bell Avenue).
38-   10-26-71 Lot 27, Zeph's Subdivision, rezoned R-1 to C-1 (14th and Wheeler Streets).
1971
39-   10-26-71 50 ft. off NW side of lot 38, Miller and Bayard Subdivision, rezoned R-1 to C-
1971           1 (State Street at L&N Railroad).
12-   4-10-72  Benjamin Mobile Home Court, rezoned R-1 to C-2.
1972
32-   9-11-72  Portion of lot 8, Mallott's Addition, rezoned R-1 to C-2 (Pruitt, 12th and
1972           Scott Streets).
33-   9-11-72  1700 Mirror Lake, Triple T, rezoned R-1 to R-3.
1972
39-   9-25-72  1700 Hart Street, Triple T, rezoned R-1 to R-3.
1972
40-   12-18-72 1340 Main Street, rezoned R-1 to C-2 (Guy F. Ray).
1972
44-   11-13-72 813 Carbon Street, rezoned R-2 to C-1 (Michael Carson).
1972
54-   3-26-72  1819 Busseron Street, rezoned R-1 to C (Landrey's Food).
1972
55-   12-18-72 Portion of lots 33 and 34, Mallott's Addition, rezoned R-1 to C-2 (Vincennes
1972           Welding, 923 N. 13th Street).
58-   12-18-72 1306, 1314, 1318, 1324 North 4th Street, rezoned R-2 to R-S (Dr. Bailey).
1972
1-             Tract I: Portion of Survey 24 and portion of Fractional 27 township 3 north,
1973  2-12-73  range 10 west; Tract II: Portion of Survey 24 township 3 north, Range 10 west,
               rezoned R-1 to C-2 (Van Eaton and Kimmell, Hart St. Bypass).
2-    2-12-73  702, 704 and 706 South 13th Street and 1511 and 1513 Prairie Street, rezoned
1973           R-1 to C-1 (C.W. Snider, South 15th Street).
3-    2-12-73  1232 and 1236 Main Street, rezoned R-2 to C-1 (Distler).
1973
10-   3-27-73  Lots 7 and 8, Kreimeir's Subdivision, rezoned R-1 to C-1 (Blagrave, 15th and
1973           Vigo Streets).
16-   4-9-73   Portion of Upper Prairie Survey 8, 9, and 10 townships north, range 10 west,
1973           rezoned I-2 to I-1 (Klein and McGarrait, Washington Avenue).
20-   5-14-73  Portion of northern location 144 township 3 north, Range 10 west, rezoned R-
1973           3 to C-1 (Early and Curtis, Wheatland Road, Holiday Inn).
32-   6-11-73  Lots 17, 18, 19, and 14 ft. of lot 20, Jessup's Addition, rezoned R-1 to I-1
1973           (Bilskie's, Vigo Street).
39-   8-13-73  Lot 77, Mallott's Addition, rezoned R-1 to C-1 (Mason, 621 North 14th Street).
1973
67-   11-19-73 Lloyd's Ice Cream, 2815 north 6th Street, rezoned I-2 to I-1.
1973
70-   12-17-73 Lots 230 through 233, Cochran's Subdivision (10th and College Avenue. Hennon's
1973           Plumbing), rezoned R-1 to C-2.
75-   1-15-74  Lots 62 and 63, Caldwell's Subdivision, rezoned R-1 to C-1.
1973
7-    3-11-74  Portion of lots 476 and 477, Old Town Subdivision, rezoned R-2 to C-1
1974           (Culligan Water Softener, 11th and Hart).
25-   7-8-74   Lot 142, Old Town Subdivision, rezoned R-3 to C-1 (Gremore, 404 north 4th
1974           St.).
29-   9-9-74   Portion of Lots 188 and 189, Columbia Subdivision, rezoned R-2 to C-2 (1830
1974           North 2nd Street).
30-   8-12-74  Lot 400, Old Town Subdivision, rezoned R-1 to C-1 (Bergman, 528 S. 9th
1974           Street).
33-   10-7-74  Lots 11, 12 and 13, Mantle and Nobel's Subdivision, rezoned R-1 to R-3
1974           (Blackburn, 811-817 Wabash Avenue).
34-   9-23-74  Lots 60 and 61, Central Subdivision, rezoned R-1 to C-2 (Chanley, 1607 Wheeler
1974           Street).
40-   11-12-74 Hart Street, Kimmell Shopping Center, rezoned R-1 to C-3 (Kimmell Realty).
1974
42-   10-7-74  Hart Street and U.S. 41 Shopping Center, rezoned I-1 to C-3 (Wilkes, Triple
1974           T).
2-    2-18-75  Lot 42, Mallott's Addition, rezoned R-1 to R-2 (Street Bros., 712 North 13th
1975           Street).
5-    4-14-75  Portion of Upper Prairie Survey 20, township 3 north, Range 10 west, rezoned
1975           I-2 to I-1 (Old City Dump).
25-   7-11-75  Lots 74, 75, 76, 77 and 78, Caldwell's Subdivision, rezoned R-1 to C-1 (Esther
1975           Marlowe, 13th and Hart Streets).
43-   11-10-75 Lot 474, Old Town Subdivision, rezoned R-2 to C-1 (18th and Hart Streets).
1975
51-   1-15-76  Lot 146, 147, Eberwine Subdivision, rezoned R-2 to C-1.
1975
2-    2-9-76   1212 North 9th Street, rezoned R-1 to C-1.
1976
11-   3-9-76   Lot 62, V.C.L. Division, rezoned R-1 to R-3.
1976
12-   4-14-76  1201 Willow Street, rezoned R-1 to C-1.
1976
19-   5-12-76  1305 S. 13th Street, rezoned R-1 to C-1.
1976
22-   6-17-76  Hart Street, Mantle Ditch, rezoned R-1 to C-2.
1976
23-   5-12-76  Van Eaton property on Felt King Road, rezoned R-1 to R-3.
1976
32-   11-10-76 Lot 475, Old Town Subdivision, rezoned R-2 to C-1 (18th and Hart Streets).
1976
45-   9-15-76  PSI on Old Wheatland Road, rezoned to I-2.
1976
63-   12-21-76 Lot 156, Old Town Subdivision, except 45 feet off entire northwest side of
1976           lot, rezoned R-1 to R-3 (4th and DuBois Streets).
72-   12-21-76 Adjacent to Thomas property, rezoned R-3 to C-1 (Next to Red's Country Store).
1976
17-   3-29-77  1301 N. 13th Street, rezoned R-1 to R-3.
1977
25-   4-27-77  635 Kessinger Street, rezoned R-1 to C-1.
1977
26-   4-12-77  Next to Kocolene Station, rezoned R-3 to I-1 (Captain D's, 2713 N. 6th
1977           Street).
37-   6-14-77  Wabash Valley Bank, rezoned C-3 to C-2.
1977
38-   6-14-77  Rezoned R-2 to C-2, 631 Kessinger Street.
1977
47-   7-12-77  Rezoned 10th and Wabash Avenue to C-2 (Frizzi's Advanced Heating).
1977
50-   8-10-77  724 S. 9th Street, rezoned to C-1.
1977
54-   8-10-77  Lot 91, division A.C.L. (Willow Street City Ditch Warehouse).
1977
69-   9-13-77  511 Bayou Street, rezoned to R-3.
1977
70-   9-13-77  815 N. 12th Street, rezoned R-1 to R-3.
1977
77-   9-27-77  1658 Washington Avenue, rezoned R-2 to C-1.
1977
79-   11-14-77 1402 S. 15th Street, rezoned R-2 to C-1.
1977
82-   1-23-78  925 N. 10th Street, rezoned R-1 to C-2.
1977
83-   12-21-77 Lot 26, Meyer's Addition to Woodlawn, rezoned R-2 to C-2.
1977
94-   1-19-78  701 S. 13th Street, rezoned R-1 to I-1.
1977
15-   3-13-78  10th and Willow Streets, rezoned to C-2.
1978
17-   1-13-78  6th and Minneapolis Avenue, rezoned to C-2 (McDonald's).
1978
18-   3-13-78  Jamestown Square Apartments, Felt King Road, rezoned to R-3.
1978
38-   6-12-78  Harold's Supermarket, 1400 Washington Avenue, rezoned to C-2.
1978
39-   6-12-78  1031 N. 12th Street, rezoned to R-2.
1978
40-   7-10-78  12th and Perry Streets, rezoned to R-2.
1978
42-   7-10-78  Lot 70, Mass and Watson Subdivision, 12th Perry Streets, rezoned to C-2.
1978
45-   8-14-78  1004 N. 12th Street, rezoned R-1 to R-2.
1978
56-   10-10-78 Portion of lot 352, 46 feet 6 inches off of the southwest side of the lot,
1978           rezoned R-2 to R-3.
64-   11-9-78  109 E. St. Clair Street, rezoned to C-2.
1978
86-   2-13-79  1019 Bayou Street, rezoned to C-2.
1978
4-    2-13-79  204 S. 6th Street, rezoned R-2 to C-2.
1979
6-    2-13-79  St. Clair Railroad spur to north 6th Street, rezoned I-2 to I-1.
1979
10-   4-9-79   13th and Prairie Streets, rezoned R-1 to I-1.
1979
14-   5-14-79  Comb's Subdivision, rezoned R-1 to C-2.
1979
15-   5-14-79  1323 Washington Ave., rezoned R-1 to C-1.
1979
16-   5-29-79  Church, 1700 Hart Street, rezoned R-1 to C-1.
1979
17-   5-29-79  1317 Washington Avenue, rezoned R-1 to C-1.
1979
37-   10-9-79  811 Wabash Avenue, portion of lots 12 and 13, Mantle and Noble's Subdivision,
1979           rezoned R-3 to C-1.
46-   11-13-79 Lot 101, Tewalt's Subdivision, rezoned R-1 to R-2.
1979
59-   11-13-79 Lot 220, Eberwine Subdivision, rezoned R-2 to C-1 (Millie and Bill's Cake
1979           Shop).
65-   1-14-80  Hart Street, U.S. 41 and Kimmell Road, rezoned to C-3.
1979
69-   1-14-80  1204 Main Street, rezoned C-1 to C-2.
1979
70-   1-14-80  1401 Main Street, rezoned R-1 to C-1.
1979
71-   1-14-80  802 North 13th Street, rezoned R-1 to R-3.
1979
1-    2-11-80  3015 North 6th Street, rezoned R-1 to R-3.
1980
3-    2-11-80  1526 LaPlante Street, H.R. Lewis Subdivision, rezoned R-1 to R-2.
1980
4-    3-11-80  Lot 3931 Old Town Subdivision (9th Street to alley), rezoned R-1 to R-2.
1980
10-   3-10-80  Lots 49 and 50, Mallott's Subdivision, rezoned R-1 to C-2.
1980
11-   3-10-80  Lot 8, Block II, Tindolph and Green Subdivision, 24 W. Lyndale Avenue, rezoned
1980           R-2 to R-3.
21-   5-12-80  Lot 46, LaPlante and Joice's First Subdivision, rezoned R-1 to C-1.
1980
26-   5-12-80  Lot 98 and 86, Caldwell's Subdivision, rezoned R-1 to R-2.
1980
51-   9-8-80   1235 Vigo Street, lot 24, Jessup's Subdivision, rezoned R-1 to C-1.
1980
56-   11-10-80 Southeast lot 206 and 245, Old Town Subdivision, rezoned R-2 and R-3.
1980
77-   2-9-80   Lot 55, Cochran's Subdivision, 1135 Shelby Street, rezoned R-1 to R-2.
1980
78-   1-12-81  Lot 1 and 2, Zeph's Subdivision, 1302 Parkinson Street, rezoned R-1 to C-1.
1980
1-    2-9-81   7 and 8 Thompson Drive, rezoned R-1 to R-2.
1981
3-    2-9-81   Lot 235, Cochran's Subdivision, 925 north 9th Street, rezoned R-1 to R-2.
1981
4-    2-9-81   Lot 177, Cochran's Subdivision, 818 Upper 11th Street, rezoned R-1 to R-2.
1981
13-   4-27-81  Ben Johnson and Pleasant Valley Church, Lot 80, Mallott's Add, rezoned R-1 to
1981           R-3.
14-   5-11-81  Lot 317 and 318, Reel and Swartzel Subdivision, rezoned R-2 to C-2.
1981
19-   6-8-81   Portion of lot 297, Old Town Subdivision, 703 Bayou Street, rezoned R-2 to C-
1981           1.
23-   6-8-81   Portion of lot 478, Old Town Subdivision 11th Seminary Streets, rezoned R-2 to
1981           C-2.
26-   8-10-81  Lot 163 and 35' by 83' of lot 168, Harrison Addition, 7th and Shelby Streets,
1981           rezoned R-3 to C-1.
35-   11-9-81  Lot 269, Old Town Subdivision portion of lot 270, 505 north 6th Street,
1981           rezoned R-3 to C-1.
36-   11-9-81  Lot 12, Schmidt's 4th Subdivision, 1410 Prairie Street, rezoned R-1 to R-2.
1981
39-   11-9-81  Area adjacent to Benjamin Trailer Park and Knox County Highway Garage, rezoned
1981           R-1 to C-2.
43-   12-14-81 Area north of Prospect Extension and parallel to 41 bypass, rezoned R-1 to R-
1981           3.
44-   1-11-82  Lot 33 and 38, Meyer's Addition to Woodlawn, rezoned R-1 to C-2.
1981
45-   1-11-82  Lots 34, 35, 36, 43, 44, 45, 46 and 47, Meyer's Addition, rezoned R-1 to R-3.
1981
6-    3-8-82   Lot 26 and portion lot 27, Denny's Subdivision, 313 S. 13th Street, rezoned R-
1982           1 to R-2.
15-   4-12-82  15th and Hart Streets, rezoned R-1 to C-1.
1982
16-   4-12-82  Lots 515 and 516, Reel and Swartzel Subdivision, 7 and 9 New Albany Avenue,
1982           rezoned to C-1.
18-   4-12-82  Universal Scientific, 13th and Cavanaugh Street, rezoned R-1 to I-1.
1982
20-   5-10-82  Wal-Mart, next to Vincennes Plaza, rezoned to C-2.
1982
49-   10-12-82 Sixth and Hart Street, rezoned R-3 to C-1.
1982
50-   10-12-82 Sixth and Willow Street, rezoned R-2 to C-2.
1982
52-   11-9-82  1204 South 17th and 1701 Joice, rezoned R-1 to C-2.
1982
59-   1-10-83  Blocks C and D, Green's subdivision, Up-per Prairie Survey 12 and 13 in
1982           township 3 north Range 10 west, rezoned R-1 to R-3.
64-   1-25-83  1303 Hart, rezoned R-1 to C-1.
1982
8-    4-12-83  Part of lot 189 in Cochran's Addition, rezoned R-1 to R-2.
1983
9-    4-12-83  Tract 1, (southwest half) lot (159) in Columbia Subdivision. Tract 11.
1983
             (northeast half) lot (159) Columbia Subdivision, rezoned R-2 to R-3.
11-   4-12-83  2 East Sycamore, rezoned R-2 to R-3.
1983
13-   5-23-83  Upper Prairie Survey 2, township 3 north, Range 10 west, rezoned R-1 to R-2.
1983
14-   5-9-83   Part of lot 470, Old Town, rezoned R-2 to R-3.
1983
26-   8-8-83   Lots 20 and 21 Bishop Chatard's Subdivision, rezoned R-3 to C-1.
1983
29-   8-1-83   Part of Upper Prairie Surveys 1, 2, 3, and 4 township 3 north, Range 10 west,
1983           rezoned R-1 to R-3.
42-   10-11-83 Lots 53 and 54 in Willy's Addition.
1983
48-   12-12-83 212 South 10th Street, rezoned R-1 to C-1.
1983
5-    3-27-84  Part of lots 69 and 70, Eberwine Subdivision, 2220 north 2nd Street, rezoned
1984           R-2 to C-1.
14-   4-10-84  Part of lots 346 and 347 Old Town, 618 South 8th Street, rezoned R-1 to C-1.
1984
16-   5-29-84  Lot 8 Jessup's Subdivision of Common Lands Lot 19, Division A, 1231 Main
1984           Street, rezoned C-1 to C-2.
23-   8-28-84  Northwest side of iron bridge across Kelso's Creek on Indianapolis Road north
1984           2nd Street, rezoned R-2 to C-2.
28-   8-23-84  Part of lot 44, Division B Vincennes Common Lands 2603 Hart Street, rezoned R-
1984           1 to C-2.
29-   8-14-84  Part of lot 37, Division A, Vincennes Common Lands, 1013 South 15th Street,
1984           rezoned R-1 to C-2.
33-   9-10-84  Part of lot 441, Old Town, 429 South 10th Street, rezoned R-2 to R-3.
1984
34-   9-10-84  Part of lots 44 and 45, Division B Commons Lands, Intersection of Hart Street
1984           and Felt King Road across from Volunteer Fire Department, rezoned R-1 to C-1.
1-91  2-11-91  Lot 27, Willie's Addition rezoned to C-1.
15-91 8-12-91  Part of Upper Prairie Surveys one, two, three, and four rezoned to C-1.
5-92  4-13-92  Certain property rezoned from I-2 to C-2.
8-92  5-11-92  Part of Upper Prairie Surveys 1, 2, 3, and 4, rezoned as C-2.
26-92 9-14-92  Certain property rezoned to C-1.
28-92 9-14-92  Parts of lots 57 and 58, and a ten-foot strip of land off the southeast side
               of lot 57 rezoned from R-2 to C-1.
29-92 1-13-92  The Northeast third of lot 404 in the Old Town rezoned from R-2 to C-1.
30-93 12-13-93 Certain real estate rezoned from C-3 to C-1.
31-93 2-14-94  Certain real estate rezoned to C-1.
33-93 1-10-94  Certain real estate rezoned from R-1 to C-1.
6-94  3-15-94  Certain real estate rezoned from R-1 to C-2.
7-94  4-11-94  Certain real estate rezoned from R-2 to C-1.
               Lot Number Three in Meyers Addition to Woodlawn, Lot Number Four in Meyers
12-94 5-10-94  Addition, the southeastern 15 feet of Lot Number Two in Meyers Addition to
               Woodlawn, commonly known as 1604 Main Street from R-1 to C-1.
20-94 7-12-94  Certain real estate, located at Kimmell Road and U.S. Highway 41, rezoned from
               C-1 to C-3.
22-94 9-13-94  Certain real estate rezoned from R-3 to C-1.
28-94 10-25-94 Certain real estate rezoned from C-1 to C-2.
31-94 11-15-94 Lot One in Dixie Orchard Company Subdivision, commonly known as 609 Kimmell
               Road, rezoned from R-1 to C-2.
1-95  2-14-95  Certain real estate rezoned to C-2.
8-95  4-10-95  Certain real estate rezoned to C-1.
17-95 12-20-95 Certain real estate rezoned to C-1.
10-96 3-11-96  Lots 124 and 125 of Utterbacks's Subdivision from R-2 to C-2.
13-96 5-13-96  Certain real estate rezoned from R-1 to C-1.
18-96 8-12-96  Certain real estate rezoned from I-1 to C-1.
26-96 8-12-96  Certain real estate rezoned from R-1 to C-1.
34-96 11-12-96 Certain real estate rezoned from C-1 to C-2.
35-96 11-12-96 Certain real estate rezoned from C-2 to C-1.
36-96 11-25-96 Certain real estate rezoned from C-3 to C-2.
37-96 12-9-96  Lot 16 in Jessup's Addition rezoned from R-1 to C-2.
38-96 3-10-97  Lot Number 98 and Lot Number 99 in Utterbacks Subdivision rezoned from R-2 to
               C-1.
4-97  2-10-97  Lot Number 98, Caldwell's Addition, commonly known as 1223 Perry Street from
               R-1 to R-2.
10-97 - -97    Certain real estate rezoned to R-3.
17-97 - -97    A part of Lots 126 and 127 rezoned from R-1 to C-1.
30-97 11-10-97 Certain real estate rezoned from R-3 to C-1.
PT:   35-98    8-10-98Lot number 77 in Mass and Watson's Addition, commonly known as 1302
11>            North Fourth Street, from R-2 to R-3.
37-98 9-14-98  Part of Survey 24, Township 3 North, Range 10 West, from R-1 to C-1.
48-98 1-11-98  Part of Lot 9, all of Lot 10, and part of Lot 11, commonly known as 715 North
               12th Street, rezoned from R-1 to C-1.
5-99  3-8-99   Lot Number 11 in L.J. Cooper's Subdivision, located at 209 North 15th Street,
               from R-1 to C-2.
2-    3-13-00  Lot 27 in Willy's Addition to the city, rezoned from R-1 to C-2.
2000
             Lots 28 and 29 in Willy's Addition to the city, rezoned from C-1 to C-2.
4-    4-10-00  114 S. Seventh Street, rezoned from R-2 to C-1.
2000
6-    5-8-00   1203 Main Street, rezoned from R-1 to C-1.
2000
25-   11-13-00 Land being part of the Northern Location 144, Township 3 North, Range 10 West,
2000           of the Second Principal Meridian, rezoned from I-2 to C-2.
8-    5-14-01  127 E. Jefferson Avenue, rezoned from R-2 to C-1.
2001
15-   8-13-01  Certain real estate rezoned from RS and R-1 to C-3.
2001
16-   10-9-01  1206 Hart Street, rezoned from R-1 to C-1.
2001
19-   9-10-01  1107 Hart Street, rezoned from R-2 to I-1.
2001
24-   12-17-01 The south half of Lot 7 and all of Lots 8 and 13 and the southeast quarter of
2001           Lot 14 in Willy's Addition, rezoned from R-1 to C-1.
26-   12-17-01 Lots 9, 10, and 11 in Jessup's Subdivision of Vincennes Commons Lot 19,
2001           Division A, rezoned from R-1 to C-1.
8-    5-13-02  Certain real estate rezoned from R-3 to C-1.
2002
20-   10-15-02 903 Broadway Street, rezoned from R-3 to C-1.
2002
23-   11-12-02 1842 Washington Avenue, rezoned from C-1 to C-2.
2002
3-    2-10-03  Lot 3 in Willy's Addition, rezoned from R-1 to C-1.
2003
8-    4-14-03  Certain real estate rezoned from R-3 to C-1.
2003
15-   8-11-03  Part of Old Town Lot 448, rezoned from R-1 to C-1.
2003
1-    2-9-04   2707 and 2709 North Sixth Street, rezoned from I-2 to C-1.
2004
16-   12-13-04 820 and 822 Willow Street, rezoned from R- 2 to C-2.
2004
17-   12-19-05 216 and 220 Manilla Street in Miller and Bayard’s Subdivion, rezoned from R-
2005           2 to C-2.
6-    5-8-06   Certain real estate rezoned from RS to C-1.
2006
8-    8-14-06  Certain real estate rezoned from R-1 and R- 2 to C-2.
2006
10-   8-14-06  Part of Fractional Quarter Section 34 and part of Survey 24, all in Township 3
2006           North, Range 10 West rezoned from RA to C-3 and I1 to C-3.
20-   1-8-07   Lot 11, LaPlante and Joice 2nd Subdivision, rezoned from R-1 to C-1.
2006
4-    5-29-07  Part of Lots 74 and 75, Vincennes Common Lands, Division A, rezoned from R-
2007           1 to C-2.
5-    6-25-07  1102 Prairie Street, rezoned from I-1 to R-1.
2007
7-    7-9-07   Real estate located along Bierhaus Boulevard, part of Survey 43, Township 3
2007           North, Range 10 West, rezoned from R-A to C-3.
18-   1-14-08  1612 and 1614 Main Street, rezoned from R-1 to C-1.
2007
2-    3-10-08  Part of Survey 43, Township 3 North, Range 10 West, to be known as Cypress
2008           Pointe/ Cyprus Commons, rezoned from R-A to PUD.
3-    5-27-08  Part of Lot 29, Vincennes Common Lands, Division A, rezoned from I-1 to R-1.
2008
19-   11-10-08 Part of Lot 404, 48' X 151.8', in Old Town Subdivision, rezoned to R-1.
2008
13-   12-14-09 1302 Willow Street, subject to water line and electric line easements, rezoned
2009           from C-1 and C-2 to C-3.
16-   8-9-10   1116 Hart Street, rezoned from I-1 to C-3.
2010
17-   9-13-10  Part of Lot 126 in Vincennes Common Lands, Division A, rezoned from R-1 to C-
2010           1.
3-    5-23-11  522 S. 10th Street, 526 S. 10th Street, 530 S. 10th Street, and 1018 Bayou
2011           Street, rezoned from R-2 to C-2.
12-   10-11-11 Several Old Town Lots and portions of Bayou, Eighth, and Nicholas Streets,
2011           rezoned from R-2 to C-3.
25-   1-9-12   1235 Perry Street, rezoned from R-1 to R-2.
2011
16-   9-10-12  Lots numbered 297, 298, 299 and 300 in Reel and Swartzel Subdivision from R-
2012           2 to C-2.
17-   9-9-13   1216 Washington Avenue from I-1 to C-1.
2013
28-   11-12-13 1746 Willow Street rezoned from C-1 to C-2.
2013
2015- 3-9-15   802 Old Wheatland Road from R-2 to C-1.
03
2015- 5-11-15  Lots 34, 57, 58 and 59 Utterbacks Subdivision from R-2 to C-2.
13
2016- 4-12-16  Lot 396 Old Town at 730 South 9th Street from C-1 to R-2.
08
32-   8-8-16   1601 Busseron Street from R-1 to C-2.
2016
39-   10-11-16 1604, 1610, 1612, and 1614 Main Street currently zoned as C- 1 and 2 North
2016           Seventeenth Street currently R-2 shall be rezoned to C-2.
43-   10-11-16 104 North First Street from I-1 to C-2.
2016
2016-          1404 S. Fourteenth Street, Cavanaugh Street, 1405 Cavanaugh Street, 1407
55    12-12-16 Cavanaugh Street, and 1409 Cavanaugh Street currently zoned as C-1 shall now
               be zoned as R-1.
2-    2-13-17  Located at the corner of Fifteenth Street and Cavanaugh Street rezoning to I-
2017           2.
2017- 6-12-17  Lots 24, 25 and 26 in South Vincennes Subdivision more commonly known as 1409
21             Frazier Avenue, from I-1 to R-1.
38-   9-11-17  Certain real estate commonly known as 104 N. First Street from I-1 to C-2.
2017
2017- 10-10-17 Bierhaus Boulevard (Entire Lot) is presently a PUD Zone and a portion is being
41             subdivided and rezoned as C-1.
2018- 6-11-18  1 Executive Boulevard from I-2 to C-2.
6
2019- 9-9-19   Part of lot 317 in Old Town from C-1 to R-2.
5
2019- 12-9-19  1602 and 1626 Washington Ave from C-2 and R- 2 to C-3.
11
12-   12-9-19  825 North 14th Street from R-1 to R-2.
2019
2020- 12-14-20 Vacant ground on Barnett St. as described in this ordinance from I-1 to R-2.
2
3-    9-28-20  Lots 11, 12 and 13 in Meyer’s Addition to Woodlawn from R-1 to C-2.
2020
17-   12-14-20 Real estate as described in this ordinance from C-1 to C-2.
2020
3-    3-8-21   Real estate as described in this ordinance from R-1 to C-1.
2021
4-    3-8-21   421 North Seventh Street from C-1 to R-2.
2021
2021- 3-8-21   Real estate as described in this ordinance from C-2, R-1 and R-2 to be used
5              for residential Planned Unit Development purposes.
2021- 1-10-22  720 15½ Street from R-1 to C-2.
20
2023- 3-13-23  Real estate commonly known as 1401 Hart Street from R-1 to C-2.
2
7-    5-8-     Real estate commonly known as 1508 Broadway Street from R-1 to C-2.
2023  23   
11-   9-11-23  Real estate commonly known as 631 Kimmel Road from R-1 to C-3.
2023
15-   10-11-23 Real estate commonly known as 800 South 17th Street from I-2 to C-1.
2023
              
 
TABLE IV: AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing an interlocal governmental agreement between
9-98     2-23-98     Knox County, the City of Vincennes, and Vincennes Area
                     Community Deveopment Corporation.
                     Granting a franchise to Cinergy Metronet, Inc., its
1-2005   1-24-05     successors, and assigns, to own, operate and maintain a
                     broadband communications system to offer cable television
                     and other broadband services.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1971 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
IC Section Code Section
IC Section              Code Section
4-20.5                  150.33
4-21.5 et seq.          91.034
4-21.5-5-1 et seq.      91.034
5-3-1                   156.10
5-11-1-27(e)            35.06
5-11-10                 31.05
5-22                    32.176
8-1.5-3 et seq.         32.135
8-1.5-3-4(a)(6)         32.136
8-15-3 et seq.          31.06
9-13-2-1                90.01
9-13-2-121              90.01
9-13-2-122              90.01
9-13-2-124              90.01
9-13-2-136              90.01
9-13-2-144              90.01
9-13-2-196(d)           90.01
9-18-22-1               72.028
9-18-12                 90.04
9-20-14.0.5             90.01
9-20-15.0.5             90.01
9-22-1-1                90.04
9-22-1-3                90.01
9-22-1-4                90.05
9-22-1-11               90.06
9-22-1-12               90.07
9-22-1-18               90.09
9-22-1-19               90.10
9-22-1-21               90.11
9-22-1-31               90.14
9-22-1-32               90.15
9-32-2-18.6             90.01
14-28-1                 160.06,
                        160.13
14-28-3                 160.13
14-32                   53.005
14-34                   53.040,
                        53.050
15-3-4                  95.15,
                        95.17
22-9.5-1 et seq.        92.01
22-9.5-2-2              92.02
22-9.5-2-3              92.02
22-9.5-2-4              92.02
22-9.5-2-8              92.02
22-9.5-2-9              92.02
22-9.5-2-10             92.02
22-9.5-2-11             92.02
22-9.5-2-13             92.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.        92.08
22-9.5-3                92.03
22-9.5-4-8              92.10
22-9.5-5                92.02
22-9.5-5-1              92.03
22-9.5-6                92.10
22-11-14-1              93.22,
                        93.24
22-11-14-2              93.23
22-11-14-3.5            93.23
22-11-14-4.5            93.28
22-11-14-7              93.28
22-11-14-8              93.24
22-11-14-8(a)           93.22
22-11-14-10.5           93.21
22-11-14-10.5(c)(3)     93.23
22-11-14-11             93.28
22-12-1-3               150.50
22-13-2-7               150.33
22-15-3-1               150.21
22-15-4                 150.18
23-14-65                31.06
25-28.5-1-1 et seq.     150.76
33-6-3-1 et seq.        36.01
34-28-5                 130.99
34-28-5-4               130.99
Title 36, Article 1     52.15
36-1-3                  35.35
36-1-5-4                31.06
36-1-8-3                35.35
36-1-20.2               31.06
36-1-21                 31.06
36-1-27-1               150.35
36-1-27-4               150.35
36-4-6-11               31.06
36-4-6-21               30.35
36-4-7-3                31.01
36-4-8-14               31.16
36-4-8-14(c)            118.23
36-4-9-8                32.001
36-4-9-11               31.30
36-4-10-1 et seq.       32.065
36-5-2-9.4              31.06
36-7-4                  160.01
36-7-4-100 et seq.      155.06,
                        155.34
36-7-4-200 et seq.      32.090
36-7-4-919              154.10
36-7-4-1106             154.02
36-7-4-1109(b)          150.35
36-7-9                  150.45
36-7-9-1 - 36-7-9-28    150.47
36-7-9-2                150.46
36-7-9-4                150.46
36-7-9-14               150.52
36-7-9-28               150.99
36-7-10.1 et seq.       95.15
36-7-14                 32.080
36-7-14.5               32.150
36-8-2-2                33.01
36-8-2-3                33.15
36-8-3-3                31.01
36-8-3-20               33.05,
                        33.55
36-8-6-1 et seq.        33.04
36-8-7-1 et seq.        33.19
36-8-12-16(e)           35.31.1
36-8-12.2               35.31.1
36-8-12.2-10            35.31.1
36-9-6 et seq.          32.141
36-9-15.5 et seq.       35.33
36-9-23                 51.091,
                        53.108
36-9-23-30              51.086
36-9-23-31              51.095
36-9-23-31(d)           51.086
36-9-23-32              53.105
36-9-23-32 - 36-9-23-34 51.095
36-9-23-33              53.105
36-9-28                 53.001
36-9-28.5               53.001
36-10-3 et seq.         31.06,
                        32.033
                        
 
REFERENCES TO 1971 CODE
1971 Code Section Code Section
1971 Code Section       Code Section
2.01                    11.01
2.02                    11.02
29.01                   30.16
29.02(A)                30.15
29.02(B)                30.15
29.02(C)                30.15
29.02(D)                30.17
29.02(E)                30.18
29.02(F)                30.19
29.02(G)                30.20
29.02(H)                30.21
29.02(I)                30.22
29.02(J)                30.23
29.02(K)                30.25
29.02(L)                30.24
29.02(M)                30.33
29.02(N)                30.26
29.02(O)                30.34
29.02(P)                30.35
29.03(A)                30.45
29.03(B)                30.45
29.03(C)                30.46
29.03(D)                30.47
29.04(A)                30.61
29.04(B)                30.62
29.04(C)                30.60
29.04(D)                30.63
29.04(E)                30.64
29.04(F)                30.65
29.04(G)                30.66
29.04(H)                30.67
29.05(A)                30.29
29.05(B)                30.30
29.05(C)                30.27
29.05(D)                30.31
29.05(E)                30.31
29.05(F)                30.31
29.05(G)                30.31
29.05(H)                30.31
29.05(I)                30.31
29.05(J)                30.31
29.05(K)                30.31
29.06                   30.32
30.01                   30.01
30.02                   30.28
32.01                   31.15
32.02                   31.01
32.03                   31.02
32.04                   31.02
32.05                   31.02
33.01                   32.065
33.02                   35.02
33.03                   35.02
33.04                   35.15
33.05                   35.16
33.06                   35.18
33.07                   35.17
33.08                   35.30
34.01                   31.30
35.01                   32.001
36.01                   33.01
36.02                   33.02
36.03                   33.04
36.04                   33.03
36.50                   33.15
36.51                   33.16
36.52                   33.19
36.53                   33.18
36.54                   33.17
37.01                   31.31
37.02                   35.01
38.01                   32.045
38.02                   32.046
38.03                   32.047
38.04                   32.048
38.05                   32.049
38.06                   32.050
38.07                   32.051
38.08                   32.052
38.50                   31.32
38.51                   31.32
38.52                   31.32
39.01                   32.015
39.02                   32.016
39.03                   32.017
39.04                   32.020
39.05                   32.018
39.06                   32.019
42.01                   32.030
42.02                   32.031
42.03                   32.032
42.04                   32.033
42.05                   32.034
42.06                   32.035
43.01                   34.03
43.02                   34.05
43.03                   34.04
43.04                   34.06
43.05                   34.07
43.06                   34.08
43.07                   34.09
43.08                   34.10
43.09                   34.11
43.10                   34.12
43.11                   34.02
43.12                   34.01
44.01                   32.090
44.02                   32.091
45.01                   32.116
45.02                   32.118
45.03                   32.119
45.04                   32.121
45.05                   32.122
45.06                   32.117
45.07                   32.115
45.08                   32.119
45.09                   32.120
45.11                   32.123
Ch. 46                  32.080
51.01                   51.001
51.02(A)                51.002
51.02(B)                51.003
51.03                   51.020
51.04                   51.004
51.05(A)                51.021
51.05(B)                51.024
51.05(C)                51.025
51.05(D)                51.026
51.05(E)                51.023
51.05(F)                51.050
51.06(A)                51.040
51.06(B)                51.040
51.06(C)                51.041
51.06(D)                51.042
51.07                   51.043
51.08(A)                51.044
51.08(B)                51.045
51.08(C)                51.046
51.08(D)                51.046
51.08(E)                51.047
51.08(F)                51.048
51.08(G)                51.049
51.08(H)                51.046
51.08(I)                51.052
51.08(J)                51.051
51.09                   51.060
51.10(A)                51.060
51.10(B)                51.061
51.10(C)                51.062
51.10(D)                51.064
51.11                   51.065
51.12(A)                51.063
51.12(B)                51.066
51.12(C)                51.067
51.13                   51.068
51.14                   51.069
51.15                   51.005
51.16                   51.006
51.99(A)                51.101
51.99(B)                51.999
51.99(C)                51.101
52.01                   51.080
52.02                   51.081
52.03                   51.082
52.05                   51.083
52.06                   51.084
52.07                   51.100
52.08                   51.085
52.09                   51.087
52.10                   51.088
70.01                   70.01
70.02                   70.04
70.03                   70.05
70.04                   70.06
70.06                   73.01
70.07                   73.02
70.09, Sch. IX          Ch. 74, Sch. VII
70.10                   70.56
70.11                   70.60
70.12                   70.41
70.13                   70.59
70.14                   70.55
70.15                   70.58
70.16                   71.07
70.17                   70.57
70.18                   70.20
70.25                   70.02
70.26                   70.03
70.27                   70.61
70.28                   70.62
70.29                   70.63
70.31                   72.101
70.32                   72.102
70.33                   70.64
70.34                   70.65
70.99                   70.99
71.01                   70.20
71.02                   70.21
71.03                   70.22
71.07                   70.23
71.09                   70.26
71.10                   70.24
71.11                   70.25
72.01                   71.03
72.02                   71.01
72.03                   71.02
72.04                   71.06
72.05                   71.05
72.08                   71.04
72.09                   71.08
72.11                   71.25
72.12                   71.26
72.13                   70.40
73.01                   72.027
73.02                   71.40
73.03                   71.41
73.04                   72.080
73.05                   72.081
73.06                   Ch. 74, Sch. VIII
73.07                   72.082
73.08                   72.083
73.30                   72.100
74.01                   72.001
74.02                   72.002
74.03                   72.003
74.04                   72.015
74.05                   72.015
74.06                   72.015
74.07                   72.016
74.08                   72.025
74.09                   72.024
74.10                   72.018
74.11                   72.023
74.12                   72.022
74.13                   72.026
74.14                   72.017
74.15                   72.019
74.16                   72.020
74.17                   72.021
74.19                   Ch. 75, Sch. II
74.20                   72.085
74.21                   72.084
74.22                   72.086
74.23                   72.080
74.24(C)                72.040
74.24(D)                72.041
74.24(F)                72.042
74.24(G)                72.043
74.24(H)                72.044
74.24(J)                72.045
74.24(I)                72.046
78.01(A)                73.16
78.01(C)                73.15
78.02                   73.22
78.03                   73.23
78.04                   73.24
78.05                   73.25
78.06                   73.26
78.07                   73.15
78.08                   73.17
78.09                   73.18
78.10                   73.18
78.11                   73.18
78.12                   73.18
78.13                   73.18
78.14                   73.18
78.15                   73.19
78.16                   73.20
78.17                   73.21
78.99                   73.99
79.02, Sch. II          Ch. 74, Sch. VI
79.03, Sch. III         Ch. 74, Sch. V
79.04(D)                Ch. 74, Sch. II
79.04(F)                Ch. 74, Sch. I
79.04(H)                Ch. 75, Sch. III
79.04(I)                Ch. 75, Sch. III
79.04, Sch. IV(A) - (D) Ch. 74, Sch. III
79.04, Sch. VI(E)       Ch. 74, Sch. IV
79.05, Sch. V           Ch. 75, Sch. I
79.06, Sch. VI          Ch. 75, Sch. II
79.07, Sch. VII         Ch. 75, Sch. IV
79.08, Sch. VIII        Ch. 74, Sch. VIII
79.10, Sch. X           Ch. 75, Sch. II
79.11(B)                72.065
79.11(C)                72.066
79.11(D)                72.067
79.11, Sch. I           Ch. 74, Sch. II
79.11, Sch. XI          Ch. 75, Sch. V
91.05(A)                93.03
91.05(B)                93.04
91.05(C)                93.01
91.05(D)                93.02
91.06                   93.99
91.09                   50.20
91.10                   50.21
91.11                   50.22
91.12                   50.23
91.13                   50.24
91.14                   50.25
91.15                   50.26
91.17                   50.27
91.18                   50.28
92.01                   97.085
92.02                   97.086
92.03                   97.087
93.01                   90.01
93.02                   90.02
93.99                   90.99
95.01                   130.17
95.02                   130.17
95.03                   130.17
96.01                   130.01
97.01                   51.027
97.02                   51.027
97.03                   51.027
97.04                   94.01
97.05                   94.01
97.06                   94.02
98.04                   130.16
98.05                   130.18
98.06                   130.18
98.07                   130.18
99.01                   96.15
99.02                   96.25
99.03                   96.28
99.04                   96.29
99.05                   96.29
99.06                   96.26
99.07                   96.27
99.08                   96.30
100.01A.                97.020
100.01C.                97.020
100.01B.                97.021
100.01D.                97.022
100.02                  97.023
100.03                  97.024
100.04                  97.025
100.05                  97.033
100.06                  97.026
100.07                  97.026
100.08                  97.026
100.09                  97.026
100.10                  97.026
100.11                  97.032
100.12                  97.027
100.13                  97.028
100.14                  97.029
100.15                  97.030
100.16                  97.031
100.26                  97.002
100.27                  97.007
100.28                  97.001
100.29                  97.003
100.30                  97.009
100.31                  97.004
100.32                  97.005
100.33                  97.006
100.40                  97.045
100.41                  97.047
100.42                  97.046
100.43                  97.048
101.01                  97.060
101.02                  97.071
101.03                  97.071
101.04                  97.071
101.05                  97.071
101.06                  97.071
101.07                  97.061
101.08                  97.062
101.09                  97.063
101.10                  97.063
101.11                  97.064
101.12                  97.065
101.13                  97.066
101.14                  97.067
101.15                  97.068
101.16                  97.069
101.17                  97.072
101.18                  97.070
102.01                  95.15
102.02                  95.16
102.03                  95.17
110.01                  110.02
110.02                  110.01
110.99                  110.99
111.02                  95.01
112.01                  112.15
112.02                  112.16
112.03                  112.17
112.04                  112.18
112.05                  112.19
112.06                  112.20
112.10                  112.30
112.15                  112.40
112.20                  112.01
112.21                  112.02
112.22                  112.04
112.24                  112.03
113.01                  113.01
113.02                  113.02
113.03                  113.07
113.04                  113.04
113.05                  113.05
113.06                  113.03
113.07                  113.08
113.08                  113.09
113.09                  113.06
116.01                  113.20
118.01                  115.01
118.02                  115.02
118.03                  115.03
118.04                  115.05
118.05                  115.04
118.06                  115.06
118.07                  115.99
119.01                  116.01
119.02                  116.02
119.03                  116.03
119.04                  116.04
120.01                  117.01
120.02                  117.02,
                        117.05
120.03                  117.03
120.03(B)               117.04
120.04                  117.06
120.05                  117.07
120.06(C)               117.03
120.06                  117.08
120.07                  117.09
120.08                  117.10
120.09                  117.99
123.01                  116.15
123.02                  116.16
123.03                  116.17
123.04                  116.18
123.05                  116.19
123.06                  116.20
123.07                  116.21
123.08                  116.22
123.09                  116.23
123.10                  116.25
123.11                  116.26
123.12                  116.27
123.13                  116.28
123.14                  116.29
123.15                  116.24
130.01                  155.21
130.02                  155.20
130.03                  155.22
130.04                  155.23
130.05                  155.24
130.06                  155.25
130.07                  155.26
130.08                  155.27
130.09                  155.28
130.10                  155.29
130.11                  155.30
130.12                  155.31
130.13                  155.32
130.14                  155.33
130.15                  155.34
131.01                  155.01,
                        155.02
131.02                  155.03
131.04                  155.04
131.05                  155.05
131.06                  155.06
150.0                   150.17
150.01                  150.15
150.02                  150.016
150.04                  150.18
150.05                  150.19
150.06                  150.21
150.07                  150.20
150.08                  150.22
150.09                  150.23
150.10                  150.24
150.11                  150.25
150.12                  150.26
150.13                  150.27
150.14                  150.28
150.15                  150.29
150.16                  150.30
150.17                  150.31
150.18                  150.32
150.19                  150.33
150.20                  150.34
150.21                  150.99
153.01                  150.65
153.02                  150.66
155.11                  150.01
155.12                  150.01
155.14                  33.20
155.15                  130.19
156.01                  152.01
156.07                  150.46
156.08                  150.46
156.09                  150.50
156.10                  150.52
156.11                  150.99
156.13                  150.51
156.15                  152.15
156.16                  152.16
156.17                  152.17
156.18                  152.18
156.19                  152.19
156.20                  152.20
156.21                  152.21
156.22                  152.22
156.23                  152.23
156.30                  152.24,
                        152.62
156.35                  152.35
156.36                  152.36
156.37                  152.37
156.38                  152.37,
                        152.38
156.40                  152.39
156.45                  152.55
156.46                  152.56
156.47                  152.57
156.48                  152.58
156.49                  152.59
156.50                  152.60
156.51                  152.61
156.52                  152.63
156.99                  152.99
Ch. 158, § 1           151.01,
                        151.35
Ch. 158, § 3           151.36
Ch. 158, § 4           151.15
Ch. 158, § 5           151.16
Ch. 158, § 6           151.17
Ch. 158, § 7           151.18
Ch. 158, § 8           151.18
Ch. 158, § 9           151.19
Ch. 158, § 10          151.20
Ch. 158, § 12          151.21
Ch. 158, § 13          151.21
Ch. 158, § 14          151.99
159.01                  150.45
159.02                  150.47
159.03                  150.48
159.04                  150.47
159.05                  150.49
159.06                  150.49
                        
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
10-2012  6-11-12     31.06
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
734       6-23-41     T.S.O. III
818       9-22-47     T.S.O. III
845       4-10-49     T.S.O. III
855       9-11-51     T.S.O. III
860       1-22-51     T.S.O. III
883       11-14-52    T.S.O. III
886       2-23-53     T.S.O. III
921       10-25-54    T.S.O. III
945       7-25-55     T.S.O. III
954       11-14-55    T.S.O. III
988       6-4-57      T.S.O. III
991       7-2-57      T.S.O. III
996       9-3-57      T.S.O. III
1003      1-6-58      T.S.O. III
1019      9-2-58      T.S.O. III
1023      11-17-58    T.S.O. III
1029      4-7-59      T.S.O. III
1033      5-7-59      T.S.O. III
1034      4-20-59     T.S.O. III
1035      5-7-59      T.S.O. III
1045      12-21-59    T.S.O. III
1050      3-21-60     T.S.O. III
1057      3-7-60      T.S.O. III
1060      7-5-60      T.S.O. III
1064      9-19-60     T.S.O. III
1079      11-28-60    158.055
1099      6-5-61      T.S.O. III
1113      10-2-61     T.S.O. III
1114      11-6-61     T.S.O. III
1115      11-6-61     T.S.O. III
1116      11-6-61     T.S.O. II
1126      1-22-62     Ch. 74, Sch. VI
1130      6-4-62      T.S.O. III
1144      8-6-62      T.S.O. III
1162      12-17-62    T.S.O. III
1171      5-6-63      T.S.O. III
1179      8-5-63      T.S.O. III
1180      8-5-63      T.S.O. III
1188      11-6-63     T.S.O. III
1189      12-2-63     T.S.O. III
1192      12-2-63     Ch. 75, Sch. I
1200      1-22-64     T.S.O. III
1201      1-7-64      33.01
1203      - -64       T.S.O. III
1209      3-18-64     T.S.O. III
1210      3-17-64     T.S.O. III
1214      4-9-64      34.01 -
                      34.12
1216      5-8-64      T.S.O. III
1217      5-8-64      T.S.O. III
1218      5-8-64      T.S.O. III
1219      7-8-64      T.S.O. III
1225      6- -64      T.S.O. III
1228      - -64       T.S.O. III
1229      7-7-64      Ch. 75, Sch. I
1230      - -64       T.S.O. III
1231      8-18-64     T.S.O. III
1232      - -64       T.S.O. III
1234      - -64       T.S.O. III
1235      - -64       T.S.O. III
1239      - -64       T.S.O. III
1242      - -64       T.S.O. III
1246      - -64       T.S.O. III
1247      2-3-64      T.S.O. III
1260      4-20-65     T.S.O. III
1261      4-21-65     T.S.O. III
1262      - -65       T.S.O. III
1264      5-5-65      T.S.O. III
1267      6-22-65     T.S.O. III
1269      6-16-65     T.S.O. III
1270      6-16-65     T.S.O. III
1272      - -65       T.S.O. III
1273      - -65       T.S.O. III
1275      7-27-65     35.30
1276      7-14-65     T.S.O. III
                      51.001 -
                      51.006,
                      51.020,
                      51.021,
                      51.023 -
1278      7-27-65     51.026,
                      51.040 -
                      51.052,
                      51.060 -
                      51.069,
                      51.101,
                      51.999
1280      - -65       T.S.O. III
1281      - -65       T.S.O. III
1282      8-18-65     T.S.O. III
1288      - -65       T.S.O. III
                      35.15,
1295      1-1-66      35.17,
                      35.18
1301      2-24-66     T.S.O. III
1307      3-2-66      96.25 -
                      96.30
1308      3-16-66     T.S.O. III
1311      4-20-66     T.S.O. III
1312      5-18-66     T.S.O. III
1313      4-20-66     T.S.O. III
1316      7-19-66     T.S.O. III
1317      7-27-66     T.S.O. III
1326      8-3-66      32.015 -
                      32.020
1328      8-16-66     33.18
1334      11-2-66     70.01
1335      9-27-66     112.15 -
                      112.20
1344      2-28-67     T.S.O. III
1345      - -67       T.S.O. III
1349      3-21-67     T.S.O. III
1351      4-19-67     T.S.O. III
1359      7-18-67     T.S.O. III
1360      7-18-67     T.S.O. III
1363      8-17-67     T.S.O. III
1364      8-16-67     T.S.O. III
1-1968    2-12-68     33.16
2-1968    2-26-68     33.02
Res. 4-68 4-8-68      30.28
5-1968    3-26-68     T.S.O. III
8-1968    5-13-68     T.S.O. III
                      32.030,
12-68     5-27-68     32.033 -
                      32.035
19-1968   6-28-68     T.S.O. III
26-68     - -68       Ch. 75, Sch. I
29-1968   8-12-68     T.S.O. III
30-1968   8-19-68     T.S.O. III
36-1968   11-28-68    T.S.O. III
39-1968   11-28-68    T.S.O. III
40-1968   11-28-68    T.S.O. III
42-1968   12-30-68    T.S.O. III
43-1968   1-13-69     T.S.O. III
44-1968   1-16-69     T.S.O. III
45-1968   12-10-68    T.S.O. II
46-1968   1-16-69     T.S.O. III
47-1968   1-13-69     T.S.O. III
4-1969    - -69       T.S.O. I
5-1969    5-28-69     T.S.O. III
9-1969    5-28-69     T.S.O. III
12-1969   6-10-69     T.S.O. III
13-1969   - -69       T.S.O. I
16-1969   9-3-69      T.S.O. III
18-1969   7-15-69     T.S.O. III
23-1969   9-3-69      T.S.O. III
24-1969   8-25-69     T.S.O. III
27-1969   - -69       T.S.O. I
30-1969   10-2-69     T.S.O. III
32-1969   12-22-69    T.S.O. III
33-1969   10-27-69    T.S.O. III
36-1969   11-24-69    T.S.O. III
37-1969   11-24-69    T.S.O. III
38-1969   - -69       T.S.O. I
40-69     2-10-70     50.20 -
                      50.28
41-1969   1-26-70     T.S.O. III
43-1969   - -69       T.S.O. I
                      90.01,
6-1970    2-9-70      90.02,
                      90.99
8-1970    3-23-70     T.S.O. III
10-1970   3-23-70     T.S.O. III
12-1970   4-13-70     T.S.O. III
13-1970   5-25-70     T.S.O. III
16-1970   5-25-70     T.S.O. III
17-1970   6-22-70     T.S.O. III
18-1970   9-14-70     T.S.O. III
25-1970   8-24-70     T.S.O. III
26-1970   8-24-70     T.S.O. III
27-1970   8-24-70     T.S.O. III
28-1970   8-24-70     T.S.O. III
29-1970   8-24-70     T.S.O. III
35-1970   9-14-70     T.S.O. III
37-1970   9-14-70     T.S.O. III
41-1970   10-13-70    33.02
42-1970   10-13-70    33.16
44-1970   11-23-70    T.S.O. III
46-1970   12-14-70    T.S.O. III
48-1970   1-25-71     T.S.O. III
49-1970   12-21-70    T.S.O. III
1-1971    1-25-71     T.S.O. I
2-1971    1-25-71     T.S.O. III
5-1971    2-22-71     T.S.O. III
8-71      3-22-71     31.30
10-1971   4-12-71     T.S.O. III
18-1971   9-13-71     T.S.O. III
19-1971   7-12-71     T.S.O. III
26-1971   10-30-71    T.S.O. III
27-1971   8-30-71     T.S.O. III
36-1971   10-26-71    T.S.O. III
38-1971   10-26-71    T.S.O. III
39-1971   10-26-71    T.S.O. III
3-1972    2-28-72     T.S.O. I
9-72      3-27-72     Ch. 74, Sch. II
12-1972   4-10-72     T.S.O. III
17-1972   6-12-72     T.S.O. I
25-1972   6-24-72     T.S.O. I
29-1972   8-14-72     T.S.O. I
32-1972   9-11-72     T.S.O. III
33-1972   9-11-72     T.S.O. III
39-1972   9-25-72     T.S.O. III
40-1972   12-18-72    T.S.O. III
44-1972   11-13-72    T.S.O. III
54-1972   3-26-72     T.S.O. III
55-1972   12-18-72    T.S.O. III
58-1972   12-18-72    T.S.O. III
1-1973    2-12-73     T.S.O. III
2-1973    2-12-73     T.S.O. III
3-1973    2-12-73     T.S.O. III
10-1973   3-27-73     T.S.O. III
16-1973   4-9-73      T.S.O. III
20-1973   5-14-73     T.S.O. III
32-1973   6-11-73     T.S.O. III
39-1973   8-13-73     T.S.O. III
58-1973   10-15-73    T.S.O. I
59-1973   10-15-73    T.S.O. I
67-1973   11-19-73    T.S.O. III
70-1973   12-17-73    T.S.O. III
75-1973   1-15-74     T.S.O. III
7-1974    3-11-74     T.S.O. III
21-1974   6-10-74     T.S.O. I
24-1974   7-8-74      T.S.O. I
25-1974   7-8-74      T.S.O. III
29-1974   9-9-74      T.S.O. III
30-1974   8-12-74     T.S.O. III
33-1974   10-7-74     T.S.O. III
34-1974   9-23-74     T.S.O. III
40-1974   11-12-74    T.S.O. III
42-1974   10-7-74     T.S.O. III
61-74     12-30-74    30.01
2-1975    2-18-75     T.S.O. III
5-1975    4-14-75     T.S.O. III
25-1975   7-11-75     T.S.O. III
43-1975   11-10-75    T.S.O. III
51-1975   1-15-76     T.S.O. III
2-1976    2-9-76      T.S.O. III
                      51.001,
                      51.023,
                      51.050,
5-76      7-12-76     51.061,
                      51.062,
                      51.064,
                      51.068,
                      51.101
6-76      2-23-76     150.20
11-1976   3-9-76      T.S.O. III
12-1976   4-14-76     T.S.O. III
16-76     4-12-76     Ch. 74, Sch. V
19-1976   5-12-76     T.S.O. III
22-1976   6-17-76     T.S.O. III
23-1976   5-12-76     T.S.O. III
25-76     6-14-76     Ch. 74, Sch. III
32-1976   7-26-76     T.S.O. I
32-1976   11-10-76    T.S.O. III
34-76     8-10-76     Ch. 75, Sch. II
43-1976   - -76       T.S.O. I
45-1976   9-15-76     T.S.O. III
57-1976   - -76       T.S.O. I
63-1976   12-21-76    T.S.O. III
72-1976   12-21-76    T.S.O. III
17-1977   3-29-77     T.S.O. III
19-1977   3-14-77     T.S.O. I
25-1977   4-27-77     T.S.O. III
26-1977   4-12-77     T.S.O. III
30-1977   4-11-77     T.S.O. I
35-77     5-23-77     Ch. 74, Sch. III
36-77     6-14-77     72.040 -
                      72.046
37-1977   6-14-77     T.S.O. III
38-1977   6-14-77     T.S.O. III
47-1977   7-12-77     T.S.O. III
50-1977   8-10-77     T.S.O. III
54-1977   8-10-77     T.S.O. III
55-1977   8-8-77      T.S.O. I
69-1977   9-13-77     T.S.O. III
70-1977   9-13-77     T.S.O. III
                      93.01 -
73-77     12-12-77    93.04,
                      93.99
77-1977   9-27-77     T.S.O. III
79-1977   11-14-77    T.S.O. III
82-1977   1-23-78     T.S.O. III
83-1977   12-21-77    T.S.O. III
94-1977   1-19-78     T.S.O. III
12-78     2-27-78     116.01 -
                      116.04
15-1978   3-13-78     T.S.O. III
17-1978   1-13-78     T.S.O. III
18-1978   3-13-78     T.S.O. III
21-1978   3-13-78     T.S.O. I
27-1978   3-27-78     T.S.O. I
37-78     7-10-78     130.18
38-1978   6-12-78     T.S.O. III
39-1978   6-12-78     T.S.O. III
40-1978   7-10-78     T.S.O. III
42-1978   7-10-78     T.S.O. III
45-1978   8-14-78     T.S.O. III
56-1978   10-10-78    T.S.O. III
63-78     11-9-78     Ch. 74, Sch. III
64-1978   11-9-78     T.S.O. III
75-78     12-11-78    72.065 -
                      72.067, V
86-1978   2-13-79     T.S.O. III
4-1979    2-13-79     T.S.O. III
6-1979    2-13-79     T.S.O. III
8-79      3-12-79     Ch. 74, Sch. III
10-1979   4-9-79      T.S.O. III
11-1979   4-9-79      T.S.O. I
13-79     4-23-79     72.016
14-1979   5-14-79     T.S.O. III
15-1979   5-14-79     T.S.O. III
16-1979   5-29-79     T.S.O. III
17-1979   5-29-79     T.S.O. III
                      114.01 -
                      114.03,
22-79     6-11-79     114.15 -
                      114.17,
                      114.99
37-1979   10-9-79     T.S.O. III
46-1979   11-13-79    T.S.O. III
51-1979   10-22-79    T.S.O. I
59-1979   11-13-79    T.S.O. III
63-1979   11-13-79    T.S.O. I
65-1979   1-14-80     T.S.O. III
68-79     12-10-79    Ch. 74, Sch. III
69-1979   1-14-80     T.S.O. III
70-1979   1-14-80     T.S.O. III
71-1979   1-14-80     T.S.O. III
72-1979   12-10-79    T.S.O. I
1-1980    2-11-80     T.S.O. III
3-1980    2-11-80     T.S.O. III
4-1980    3-11-80     T.S.O. III
10-1980   3-10-80     T.S.O. III
11-1980   3-10-80     T.S.O. III
                      112.01,
14-80     3-25-80     112.02,
                      112.04
21-1980   5-12-80     T.S.O. III
26-1980   5-12-80     T.S.O. III
28-1980   5-27-80     T.S.O. I
51-1980   9-8-80      T.S.O. III
53-10     9-8-80      112.03
56-1980   11-10-80    T.S.O. III
77-1980   2-9-80      T.S.O. III
78-1980   1-12-81     T.S.O. III
1-1981    2-9-81      T.S.O. III
3-1981    2-9-81      T.S.O. III
4-1981    2-9-81      T.S.O. III
6-81      - -81       96.01
13-1981   4-27-81     T.S.O. III
14-1981   5-11-81     T.S.O. III
19-1981   6-8-81      T.S.O. III
23-1981   6-8-81      T.S.O. III
26-1981   8-10-81     T.S.O. III
35-1981   11-9-81     T.S.O. III
36-1981   11-9-81     T.S.O. III
39-1981   11-9-81     T.S.O. III
43-1981   12-14-81    T.S.O. III
44-1981   1-11-82     T.S.O. III
45-1981   1-11-82     T.S.O. III
6-1982    3-8-82      T.S.O. III
15-1982   4-12-82     T.S.O. III
16-1982   4-12-82     T.S.O. III
18-1982   4-12-82     T.S.O. III
19-1982   4-26-82     T.S.O. I
20-1982   5-10-82     T.S.O. III
                      51.006,
                      51.046 -
23-82     5-10-82     51.049,
                      51.051,
                      51.052,
                      51.999
39-82     10-12-82    116.15 -
                      116.29
45-82     - -82       155.02
49-1982   10-12-82    T.S.O. III
50-1982   10-12-82    T.S.O. III
52-1982   11-9-82     T.S.O. III
59-1982   1-10-83     T.S.O. III
64-1982   1-25-83     T.S.O. III
8-1983    4-12-83     T.S.O. III
9-1983    4-12-83     T.S.O. III
11-1983   4-12-83     T.S.O. III
13-1983   5-23-83     T.S.O. III
14-1983   5-9-83      T.S.O. III
26-1983   8-8-83      T.S.O. III
29-1983   8-1-83      T.S.O. III
36-83     8-6-83      32.031
12-68     8-6-83      32.032
42-1983   10-11-83    T.S.O. III
47-1983   11-15-83    T.S.O. I
48-1983   12-12-83    T.S.O. III
50-1983   12-6-83     112.02
5-1984    3-27-84     T.S.O. III
8-84      3-27-84     35.02
14-1984   4-10-84     T.S.O. III
16-1984   5-29-84     T.S.O. III
23-1984   8-28-84     T.S.O. III
28-1984   8-23-84     T.S.O. III
29-1984   8-14-84     T.S.O. III
33-1984   9-10-84     T.S.O. III
34-1984   9-10-84     T.S.O. III
                      151.01,
                      151.15 -
40-1984   11-14-84    151.21,
                      151.36,
                      151.99
4-85      1-28-85     35.16
29-1985   4-22-85     151.35
                      51.080 -
36-85     5-29-85     51.085,
                      51.087,
                      51.100
                      30.15 -
                      30.27,
                      30.29 -
48-85     - -85       30.35,
                      30.45 -
                      30.47,
                      30.60 -
                      30.67
                      Ch. 74, Sch. I,
4-86      4-29-86     III,
                      IV
25-1986   8-11-86     95.15 -
                      95.17
26-1986   8-11-86     32.115 -
                      32.123
27-1986   8-25-86     152.62
32-1986   10-14-86    97.060 -
                      97.072
31-87     9-9-87      151.02
                      30.15-
                      30.35, -
2-88      2-22-88     30.45-
                      30.47,-
                      30.60 -
                      30.67
                      150.17,
                      150.19,
                      150.21,
                      150.24,
7-88      3-14-88     150.25,
                      150.27,
                      150.30 -
                      150.34,
                      150.99
17-88     5-23-83     32.080
                      150.45 -
19-88     6-13-88     150.52,
                      150.99
                      97.020 -
28-88     9-12-88     97.023,
                      97.032,
                      97.033
29-88     8-9-88      150.23
36-88     11-28-88    Ch. 74, Sch. III
                      117.01 -
13-89     6-26-89     117.10,
                      117.99
                      115.01 -
1-90      1-22-90     115.06,
                      115.99
                      51.040 -
2-90      3-12-90     51.042,
                      51.088
1-91      2-11-91     T.S.O. III
1-1991    2-24-92     32.031
2-91      1-28-91     T.S.O. II
3-91      4-8-91      T.S.O. II
4-91      4-8-91      T.S.O. II
5-91      4-22-91     T.S.O. II
14-91     8-12-91     T.S.O. II
15-91     8-12-91     T.S.O. III
                      32.031 -
1-1992    2-24-92     32.033,
                      32.035
2-92      3-9-92      51.089
                      50.01 -
3-92      4-13-92     50.08,
                      50.99
4-92      3-23-92     36.01 -
                      36.05
5-92      4-13-92     T.S.O. III
8-92      5-11-92     T.S.O. III
9-92      5-11-92     Ch. 74, Sch. III
                      90.01 -
10-92     6-8-92      90.12,
                      90.14,
                      90.15
13-92     6-8-92      T.S.O. II
15-92     6-22-92     Ch. 74, Sch. III
17-92     7-27-92     Ch. 75, Sch. I
                      154.01 -
20-92     - -         154.11,
                      154.99
21-92     8-24-92     Ch. 74, Sch. VI
22-92     8-24-92     93.05,
                      93.06
24-92     8-14-92     T.S.O. II
25-92     9-14-92     T.S.O. II
26-92     9-14-92     T.S.O. III
                      156.01 -
                      156.12,
                      156.25 -
27-92     9-14-92     156.30,
                      156.32 -
                      156.63,
                      156.99
28-92     9-14-92     T.S.O. III
29-92     1-13-92     T.S.O. III
30-92     10-13-92    156.01,
                      156.04
32-92     11-23-92    72.028
33-92     12-21-92    30.01
                      92.01 -
4-93      3-9-93      92.10,
                      92.99
8-93      5-10-93     115.20 -
                      115.24
21-93     8-23-93     156.31
                      156.01,
27-93     10-25-93    156.04,
                      156.05
29-93     11-23-93    T.S.O. II
30-93     12-14-93    T.S.O. III
31-93     2-15-94     T.S.O. III
33-93     1-11-94     T.S.O. III
4-94      2-15-94     Adopting Ordinance
6-94      3-15-94     T.S.O. III
7-94      4-11-94     T.S.O. III
8-94      3-29-94     Ch. 74, Sch. III
10-94     4-26-94     T.S.O. II
12-94     5-10-94     T.S.O. III
13-94     5-10-94     95.15-
                      95.25
16-94     6-14-94     T.S.O. II
                      51.080 -
18-94     6-14-94     51.085,
                      51.087,
                      51.088
20-94     7-12-94     T.S.O. III
22-94     9-13-94     T.S.O. III
27-94     10-25-94    32.135 -
                      32.142
28-94     10-12-94    T.S.O. III
29-94     10-24-94    160.01 -
                      160.15
30-94     11-29-94    31.03 -
                      31.04
31-94     11-15-94    T.S.O. III
32-94     10-25-94    T.S.O. I
33-94     11-15-94    T.S.O. I
34-94     11-15-94    T.S.O. I
1-95      2-14-95     T.S.O. III
4-95      3-13-95     150.70 -
                      150.80
5-95      2-28-95     31.05
6-95      3-27-95     T.S.O. I
7-95      3-28-95     Ch. 74, Sch. III
8-95      4-11-95     T.S.O. III
9-95      4-24-95     51.090 -
                      51.096
13-95     8-28-95     Ch. 74, Sch. I
14-95     8-15-95     Ch. 74, Sch. III
15-95     8-29-95     156.04
17-95     12-20-95    T.S.O. III
19-95     12-20-95    30.21
1-96      1-9-96      30.15
3-96      6-10-96     98.01 -
                      98.99
5-96      3-11-96     31.05
9-96      3-11-96     T.S.O. II
10-96     3-12-96     T.S.O. III
11-96     4-23-96     35.33
                      Ch. 74, Sch. II,
12-96     4-23-96     IV,
                      VI
13-96     5-13-96     T.S.O. III
14-96     5-13-96     33.30 -
                      33.49
17-96     6-24-96     117.06
18-96     8-12-96     T.S.O. III
22-96     8-12-96     33.65
23-96     8-12-96     35.32
                      Ch. 74, Sch. I,
25-96     8-12-96     III;
                      Ch. 75, Sch. I,
                      II
26-96     8-12-96     T.S.O. III
34-96     11-12-96    T.S.O. III
35-96     11-12-96    T.S.O. III
36-96     11-25-96    T.S.O. III
37-96     12-9-96     T.S.O. III
38-96     3-10-97     T.S.O. III
41-96     12-9-96     31.04
4-97      2-10-97     T.S.O. III
10-97     - -97       T.S.O. III
14-97     6-23-97     35.31
18-97     7-28-97     T.S.O. III
19-97     8-26-97     31.16
                      90.01 -
21-97     8-26-97     90.12,
                      90.14,
                      90.15
25-97     9-8-97      T.S.O. I
30-97     11-10-97    T.S.O. III
                      Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                      III,
                      IX,
                      X,
33-97     11-24-97    XI;
                      Ch. 75, Sch. I,
                      II,
                      III,
                      IV
34-97     12-8-97     32.136
1-98      1-26-98     32.150 -
                      32.152
2-98      2-13-98     33.55 -
                      33.57
3-98      2-13-98     32.160
5-98      1-26-98     50.09
7-98      1-26-98     T.S.O. I
9-98      2-23-98     T.S.O. IV
11-98     3-9-98      35.34
                      Ch. 74, Sch. III;
20-98     4-27-98     Ch. 75, Sch. I,
                      III
21-98     4-28-98     33.05
32-98     7-27-98     Adopting Ordinance
33-98     7-27-98     32.175 -
                      32.177
34-98     7-27-98     35.03
35-98     8-10-98     T.S.O. III
36-98     8-24-98     T.S.O. I
37-98     9-14-98     T.S.O. III
40-98     9-28-98     T.S.O. I
43-98     10-13-98    50.10
47-98     11-9-98     93.04
48-98     1-11-99     T.S.O. III
49-98     11-9-98     Ch. 74, Sch. III;
                      Ch. 75, Sch. II
51-98     12-14-98    31.04
                      Ch. 74, Sch. I;
2-99      2-8-99      Ch. 74, Sch. III;
                      Ch. 75, Sch. II;
                      Ch. 75, Sch. III
3-99      2-9-99      T.S.O. I
4-99      2-8-99      T.S.O. I
5-99      3-8-99      T.S.O. III
6-99      3-8-99      T.S.O. I
                      50.30 -
8-99      3-22-99     50.34,
                      50.99
7-99      3-22-99     95.19
13-99     5-10-99     50.26
14-99     5-24-99     118.01-
                      118.23
16-99     7-12-99     95.01
17-99     6-28-99     Ch. 74, Sch. III
19-99     7-12-99     35.35
20-99     8-9-99      31.01
24-99     8-9-99      Adopting Ordinance
26-99     8-23-99     Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                      Ch. 75, Sch. I
31-99     11-8-99     Ch. 74, Sch. III
1-2000    3-13-00     157.01 -
                      157.11
2-2000    3-13-00     T.S.O. III
3-2000    3-27-00     35.36
4-2000    4-10-00     T.S.O. III
5-2000    4-10-00     96.26
6-2000    5-8-00      T.S.O. III
8-2000    4-24-00     35.37
9-2000    5-22-00     35.04
10-2000   5-22-00     35.38
12-2000   6-12-00     T.S.O. II
20-2000   7-24-00     T.S.O. II
21-2000   8-14-00     31.01
24-2000   10-10-00    35.39
25-2000   11-13-00    T.S.O. III
27-2000   11-27-00    T.S.O. II
29-2000   12-18-00    35.40
1-2001    1-22-01     31.01
3-2001    4-23-01     33.36
6-2001    4-9-01      30.28
7-2001    4-23-01     35.38
8-2001    5-14-01     T.S.O. III
9-2001    5-14-01     157.12 -
                      157.14
12-2001   6-25-01     31.01
14-2001   7-9-01      T.S.O. II
15-2001   8-13-01     T.S.O. III
16-2001   10-9-01     T.S.O. III
19-2001   9-10-01     T.S.O. III
20-2001   9-10-01     31.01
24-2001   12-17-01    T.S.O. III
26-2001   12-17-01    T.S.O. III
                      51.004,
                      51.021 -
1-2002    3-25-02     51.027,
                      51.081 -
                      51.089
2-2002    3-25-02     52.01,
                      52.02
6-2002    4-22-02     31.01
8-2002    5-13-02     T.S.O. III
10-2002   7-22-02     50.28
17-2002   9-9-02      31.01
20-2002   10-15-02    T.S.O. III
23-2002   11-12-02    T.S.O. III
24-2002   11-12-02    T.S.O. II
28-2002   12-16-02    30.01
1-2003    4-14-03     160.01 -
                      160.15
2-2003    2-10-03     Ch. 74, Sch. VI
3-2003    2-10-03     T.S.O. III
7-2003    4-14-03     T.S.O. II
8-2003    4-14-03      
                      T.S.O. III
12-2003   5-27-03     35.43
14-2003   7-28-03     35.41
15-2003   7-28-03     T.S.O. III
17-2003   9-8-03      35.48
18-2003   9-8-03      31.01
19-2003   9-22-03     35.47
21-2003   12-15-03    31.01
1-2004    2-9-04      T.S.O. III
2-2004    11-22-04    31.04
3-2004    2-9-04      35.46
                      Ch. 74, Sch. I,
4-2004    3-8-04      III,
                      VI
5-2004    4-26-04     35.42
6-2004    4-26-04     35.44
7-2004    5-24-04     T.S.O. II
9-2004    8-9-04      T.S.O. II
11-2004   9-13-04     31.01
12-2004   11-8-04     31.01
13-2004   11-8-04     31.01
                      91.001 -
                      91.003,
                      91.015 -
                      91.039,
                      91.050 -
                      91.061,
                      91.075 -
14-2004   12-15-04    91.078,
                      91.090 -
                      91.094,
                      91.105 -
                      91.109,
                      91.120 -
                      91.124,
                      91.999
15-2004   12-13-04    31.01
16-2004   12-13-04    T.S.O. III
17-2004   11-22-04    156.05
1-2005    1-24-05     T.S.O. IV
3-2005    2-28-05     31.01
5-2005    4-11-05     35.45
6-2005    4-25-05     35.49
7-2005    6-13-05     115.04
8-2005    6-27-05     150.02
9-2005    8-8-05      T.S.O. II
10-2005   8-8-05      35.50
12-2005   9-12-05     31.01
13-2005   12-9-05     31.01
14-2005   11-14-05    91.040
15-2005   11-28-05    35.51
16-2005   11-28-05    31.04
17-2005   12-19-05    T.S.O. III
18-2005   12-19-05    31.01
19-2005   12-19-05    35.52
20-2005   12-19-05    31.01
21-2005   12-19-05    T.S.O. II
1-2006    2-27-06     35.53
4-2006    3-13-06     35.54
5-2006    3-27-06     T.S.O. II
6-2006    5-8-06      T.S.O. III
                      53.001 -
                      53.010,
                      53.020 -
                      53.026,
                      53.040 -
                      53.043,
                      53.050 -
7-2006    6-12-06     53.054,
                      53.060,
                      53.061,
                      53.070,
                      53.071,
                      53.080 -
                      53.085,
                      53.999
8-2006    8-14-06     T.S.O. III
10-2006   8-14-06     T.S.O. III
11-2006   8-28-06     T.S.O. II
12-2006   9-11-06     35.55
15-2006   9-25-06     31.01
16-2006   10-23-06    32.137
17-2006   11-27-06    T.S.O. II
18-2006   11-27-06    97.070
20-2006   1-8-07      T.S.O. III
1-2007    2-12-07     T.S.O. II
4-2007    5-29-07     T.S.O. III
5-2007    6-25-07     T.S.O. III
6-2007    5-29-07     90.06
7-2007    7-9-07      T.S.O. III
14-2007   9-24-07     31.01
15-2007   10-9-07     Ch. 74, Sch. I
16-2007   11-13-07    T.S.O. II
17-2007   12-10-07    31.01
18-2007   1-14-08     T.S.O. III
1-08      3-24-08     35.31.1
2-2008    3-10-08     T.S.O. III
3-2008    5-27-08     T.S.O. III
4-2008    6-9-08      97.071
5-2008    7-14-08     T.S.O. II
8-2008    8-11-08     97.061
10-2008   12-8-08     91.020,
                      91.041
12-2008   9-22-08     31.01
                      150.23,
                      150.73,
13-2008   9-22-08     151.18,
                      154.04,
                      154.09
14-2008   10-14-08    T.S.O. II
15-2008   11-10-08    T.S.O. II
                      150.23,
                      150.73,
16-2008   10-14-08    151.18,
                      154.04,
                      154.09,
                      157.03
                      Ch. 74, Sch. I,
17-2008   10-27-08    III;
                      Ch. 75, Sch. II,
                      III
                      72.028,
18-2008   11-10-08    72.029,
                      72.043
19-2008   11-10-08    T.S.O. III
20-2008   11-24-08    31.01
                      156.04,
                      156.05,
                      156.09,
21-2008   12-8-08     156.10,
                      156.59,
                      156.60,
                      156.62
24-2008   12-29-08    31.01
1-09      1-26-09     156.10
2-2009    3-23-09     31.01
3-2009    4-13-09     35.56
4-2009    4-13-09     35.57
5-2009    6-22-09     31.01
6-2009    8-24-09     35.58
7-2009    8-24-09     35.59
                      91.001,
                      91.003,
8-2009    10-13-09    91.034,
                      91.105,
                      91.109
11-2009   10-26-09    31.01
12-2009   11-9-09     71.70 -
                      71.79
13-2009   12-14-09    T.S.O. III
14-2009   12-14-09    31.01
15-2009   12-14-09    151.35
16-2009   12-14-09    35.60
                      72.028,
17-2009   1-11-10     72.029,
                      72.043
18-2009   12-28-09    31.01
1-2010    1-25-10     31.01
3-2010    2-8-10      Ch. 74, Sch. I
9-2010    4-26-10     35.65
                      53.005,
4-2010    5-24-10     53.100 -
                      53.108
                      115.30 -
5-2010    5-24-10     115.35,
                      115.99
6-2010    5-24-10     50.28
                      97.061,
                      97.065,
10-2010   5-24-10     97.066,
                      97.071,
                      97.072
2010-12   5-24-10     T.S.O. II
2010-13   5-24-10     T.S.O. II
14-2010   6-14-10     35.64
16-2010   8-9-10      T.S.O. III
17-2010   9-13-10     T.S.O. III
20-2010   9-13-10     130.25,
                      130.99
18-2010   9-27-10     Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                      V
19-2010   9-27-10     T.S.O. II
22-2010   9-27-10     31.01
24-2010   10-25-10    Ch. 74, Sch. I
25-2010   10-25-10    91.001,
                      91.019
21-2010   11-8-10     50.03
26-2010   12-13-10    31.01
27-2010   12-27-10    35.62
3-2011    5-23-11     T.S.O. III
08-2011   9-26-11     T.S.O. II
9-2011    9-26-11     35.63
10-2011   9-26-11     31.01
12-2011   10-11-11    T.S.O. III
17-2011   10-24-11    T.S.O. II
19-2011   11-14-11    31.01
20-2011   11-28-11    51.070
21-2011   11-28-11    51.084
26-2011   12-12-11    T.S.O. II
27-2011   12-12-11    31.01
28-2011   12-28-11    51.081
25-2011   1-9-12      T.S.O. III
06-2012   3-12-12     71.70 -
                      71.79
10-2012   5-14-12     159.01
12-2012   6-25-12     Ch. 75, Sch II,
                      III
14-2012   8-27-12     Adopting Ordinance
15-2012   8-14-12     50.04
16-2012   9-10-12     T.S.O. III
20-2012   10-22-12    71.70 -
                      71.79
22-2012   11-13-12    30.01
1-2013    1-28-13     Ch. 75, Sch. II
2-2013    2-25-13     92.01 -
                      92.10
6-2013    6-27-13     Ch. 75, Sch. II
08-2013   6-24-13     T.S.O. II
11-2013   7-8-13      T.S.O. II
14-2013   7-29-13     35.33
17-2013   9-9-13      T.S.O. III
28-2013   11-12-13    T.S.O. III
30-2013   11-25-13    Adopting Ordinance
31-2013   11-25-13    97.034
33-2013   12-23-13    Ch. 74, Sch. VI,
                      Ch. 75, Sch. I
1-2014    1-27-14     51.070
6-2014    3-10-14     Ch. 74, Sch. XII
9-2014    4-28-14     51.070
                      93.20 -
20-2014   7-28-14     93.28,
                      93.99
24-2014   8-11-14     91.003
25-2014   8-11-14     70.99
39-2014   10-27-14    T.S.O. II
41-2014   11-10-14    Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                      V
43-2014   2-23-15     73.20
2015-03   3-9-15      T.S.O. III
2015-13   5-11-15     T.S.O. III
14-2015   4-27-15     Ch. 75, Sch. I
15-2015   4-27-15     Ch. 74, Sch. VI
21-2015   6-22-15     T.S.O. II
27-2015   8-10-15     97.034
34-2015   3-14-16     31.01
35-2015   3-14-16     31.01
38-2015   12-14-15    156.01, 156.04 - 156.06, 156.10, 156.34, 156.45, 156.99
1-2016    1-11-16     31.01
2-2016    1-11-16     31.01
6-2016    2-22-16     T.S.O. II
7-2016    3-28-16     Ch. 75, Sch. I
2016-08   4-12-16     T.S.O. III
11-2016   4-12-16     52.01
                      51.081,
12-2016   4-12-16     51.082,
                      51.088
19-2016   4-26-16     31.05
20-2016   4-26-16     35.05
21-2016   5-9-16      Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                      V
23-2016   5-23-16     35.66
26-2016   5-23-16     35.06
32-2016   8-8-16      T.S.O. III
39-2016   10-11-16    T.S.O. III
43-2016   10-11-16    T.S.O. III
48-2016   10-24-16    31.01
2016-55   12-12-16    T.S.O. III
57-2016   12-12-16    Ch. 74, Sch. VI
58-2016   12-12-16    35.07
61-2016   12-29-16    31.01
62-2016   12-29-16    31.01
1-2017    1-9-17      31.01
2-2017    2-13-17     T.S.O. III
9-2017    2-13-17     72.041,
                      72.043
19-2017   5-8-17      31.07
2017-21   6-12-17     T.S.O. III
29-2017   7-10-17     Ch. 75, Sch. I
38-2017   9-11-17     T.S.O. III
2017-41   10-10-17    T.S.O. III
7-2018    5-29-18     Ch. 74, Sch. III
                      97.071,
8-2018    6-9-18      97.073,
                      97.074
2018-6    6-11-18     T.S.O. III
13-2018   7-23-18     T.S.O. II
12-2018   8-13-18     119.01 -
                      119.09
4-2019    7-22-19     T.S.O. II
2019-5    9-9-19      T.S.O. III
6-2019    8-12-19     150.35
7-2019    8-12-19     Adopting Ordinance
10-2019   10-29-19    31.01
2019-11   12-9-19     T.S.O. III
12-2019   12-9-19     T.S.O. III
2020-2    12-14-20    T.S.O. III
3-2020    9-28-20     T.S.O. III
6-2020    7-27-20     35.67
7-2020    7-27-20     33.18
8-2020    7-27-20     33.48
9-2020    7-27-20     97.071
12-2020   10-26-20    154.02,
                      154.04
14-2020   10-13-20    31.01
15-2020   10-13-20    35.68
16-2020   10-26-20    Adopting Ordinance
17-2020   12-14-20    T.S.O. III
1-2021    1-11-21     31.03
3-2021    3-8-21      T.S.O. III
4-2021    3-8-21      T.S.O. III
2021-5    3-8-21      T.S.O. III
6-2021    3-22-21     35.69
8-2021    5-10-21     150.70
9-2021    4-26-21     35.70
10-2021   8-9-21      T.S.O. II
13-2021   8-23-21     T.S.O. I
16-2021   10-25-21    31.01
17-2021   11-22-21    35.71
18-2021   11-22-21    35.72
2021-20   1-10-22     T.S.O. III
23-2021   12-13-21    31.04
1-2022    3-28-22     33.31
2-2022    3-23-22     T.S.O. I
4-2022    4- -22      35.70
5-2022    6-27-22     52.01
6-2022    7-25-22     97.010,
                      97.999
9-2022    11-14-22    33.02,
                      33.04
2023-2    3-13-23     T.S.O. III
3-2023    - -23       32.002
4-2023    4-10-23     Ch. 74, Sch. IX
5-2023    4-24-23     150.36
6-2023    5-8-23      T.S.O. II
7-2023    5-8-23      T.S.O. III
9-2023    5-8-23      35.04
10-2023   6-12-23     91.107
11-2023   9-11-23     T.S.O. III
14-2023   10-23-23    52.15 -
                      52.18
15-2023   10-11-23    T.S.O. III
                     
 
