TOWN OF WALKERTON, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-11-2022; and
State legislation current through
Indiana Legislative Service, 2022 Acts, Pamphlet #3
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
OFFICIALS
of the
TOWN OF WALKERTON, INDIANA
Town Council
Gene Reese, President
Karol Jackson, Vice-President
Tommi Weeks, Council Member
Jeffrey Fansler, Council Member
Joyce Joiner, Council Member
________________________________________________
Theresa Buckmaster, Clerk-Treasurer
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.17   Filing, notification and the like at Town offices
   
10.18   Annual revisions; ordinances
   
10.19   Public availability
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the Town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Walkerton
Town Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances”
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      CODE. The Walkerton Town Code, as amended.
      COUNCIL. The Walkerton Town Council.
      COUNTY. St. Joseph County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any person, group of
persons, firm or firms, corporation or corporations, or any other legal entity
having legal title to or sufficient proprietary interest, of the whole or part
of such building or land.
(2005 Code, § 3.07)
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof and, as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property. The words PERSONAL
PROPERTY shall include every species of property except real property, and the
words REAL PROPERTY shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
(2005 Code, § 3.09)
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street or highway, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school
yard or open space adjacent thereto, and any lake or stream or any other place
of public resort on accommodation.
(2005 Code, § 3.10)
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of the street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
(2005 Code, § 3.12)
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when a person cannot write.
(2005 Code, § 3.13)
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      STREET. Includes streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, viaducts
and all other public highways in the Town.
(2005 Code, § 3.14)
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, includes any person
holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of,
such building or land, either alone or with others.
(2005 Code, § 3.15)
      TOWN. The Town of Walkerton, St. Joseph County, Indiana.
      VEHICLE. Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power.
(2005 Code, § 3.18)
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   (1)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code
containing a non-severability provision, each division or part of every section
is severable.
      (2)   If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
         (a)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with
and so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
         (b)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) above does not affect the operation of
division (B) above with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Town
Council refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer,
agency, authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name
designation is incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or
following the effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed
with that entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named
board, bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 2005 and subsequently amended, the previous
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(2005 Code, §      
)”.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.17 FILING, NOTIFICATION AND THE LIKE AT TOWN OFFICES.
   Whenever this code shall require filing, payment to or notification of any
Town official or department, said requirement shall be satisfied by filing,
payment or notification at the regular office of such Town official or
department during normal business hours on any business day.
(2005 Code, § 2.08)
§ 10.18 ANNUAL REVISIONS; ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Subsequent ordinances. Ordinances passed after the effective date of
this code shall be incorporated into same at its annual revision as hereinafter
provided (or as directed by the Town Council). Said ordinances shall be passed
as amendments or additions to this code, unless they are of limited or special
application or are otherwise deemed to be not a part of this code.
(2005 Code, § 1.04)
   (B)   Numbering of ordinances. Ordinances as passed shall be numbered in
consecutive chronological order on a yearly basis, regardless of whether or not
such subsequent ordinances are included in whole or in part in this code.
(2005 Code, § 1.05)
   (C)   Annual revision. The Town Council, with the advice of the Town
Attorney, shall annually make arrangements for the work necessary to prepare
such revised and additional pages as are needed to keep this code current and
up-to-date at all times.
(2005 Code, § 1.06)
§ 10.19 PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town shall permanently maintain a copy of this
code which shall be open to public inspection at the Walkerton Municipal Center
and may also be located on the Town of Walkerton website at www.walkerton.org.
(2005 Code, § 1.12)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any act or omission to act that has been declared to be unlawful by
the Town Council, by this code, ordinance, rule or regulation, where no
specific penalty is provided for, shall be punished by a fine as listed in the
Appendix: Fines and Penalties in Chapter 31 of this code of ordinances. Every
day any violation of this code or any such ordinance, rule or regulation shall
continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(2005 Code, § 1.09)
   (B)   In all cases where the same offense may be made punishable by
different clauses or sections of the ordinances of the Town, the prosecuting
officer may elect under which to proceed. Such election by the prosecuting
officer shall constitute a bar to subsequent prosecution of the same individual
for the same act under all alternate ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 1.10)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Wards
§ 11.01 WARDS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Walkerton, St. Joseph County,
Indiana.
      TOWN. The Town of Walkerton, St. Joseph County, Indiana.
(2005 Code, § 12.01)
   (B)   The Town Council consists of five members.
(2005 Code, § 12.02)
   (C)   The members of the Town Council shall be elected both by ward and at
large by the voters of the whole Town in accordance with I.C. 36-5-2-5.
(2005 Code, § 12.03)
   (D)   The Town Council divides the Town into the following wards for the
purpose of conducting elections of Town Council members:
      (1)   Ward 1. Beginning at the north Town limits and Adams Street; thence
south on Adams Street to Roosevelt Road; thence southeast on Roosevelt Road to
Georgia Street; thence southwest and south on Georgia Street to the south Town
limits; thence east north and west along Town limits to Adams Street and the
point of beginning;
      (2)   Ward 2. Beginning at the west Town limits and Virginia Street;
thence east on Virginia Street to Maine Street; thence south on Maine Street to
Shamrock Street; thence east on Shamrock Street to Georgia Street; thence south
on Georgia Street to the south Town limits; thence west and north along Town
limits to Virginia Street and the point of beginning;
      (3)   Ward 3. Beginning at the intersection of Washington Street and
Roosevelt Road; thence southeast on Roosevelt Road to Georgia Street; thence
southwest and south on Georgia Street to Shamrock Street; thence west on
Shamrock Street to Maine Street; thence north on Maine Street to Virginia
Street; thence west on Virginia Street to Jefferson Street; thence north on
Jefferson Street to Illinois Street; thence west on Illinois Street to Adams
Street; thence north on Adams Street to the first east-west alley north of Ohio
Street (also known as Park Drive); thence west on said alley to Washington
Street; thence north on Washington Street to Roosevelt Road and the point of
beginning;
      (4)   Ward 4. Beginning at the north Town limits and Adams Street; thence
south on Adams Street to Roosevelt Road; thence west on Roosevelt Road to
Washington Street; thence south on Washington Street to the first east-west
alley north of Ohio Street (also knows as Park Drive); thence east on said
alley to Adams Street; thence south on Adams Street to Illinois Street; thence
east on Illinois Street to Jefferson Street; thence south on Jefferson Street
to Virginia Street; thence west on Virginia Street to the west Town limits;
thence north and east along Town limits to Adams Street and the point of
beginning; and
      (5)   Ward 5. All of the Town falling within the Town limits. (Town
Council member shall be deemed to be at large.)
(2005 Code, § 12.04)
   (E)   If any part of the Town is not included in one of the wards
established by this section, that territory is included within the ward that:
      (1)   Is contiguous to that territory; and
      (2)   Contains the smallest population (as “population” is defined in
I.C. 1-1-4-5).
(2005 Code, § 12.05)
   (F)   If any part of the Town is included in more than one of the wards
established by this section, that territory is included within the ward that:
      (1)   Is one of the wards in which territory is described in this
section;
      (2)   Is contiguous to that territory; and
      (3)   Contains the smallest population (as “population” is defined in
I.C. 1-1-4-6).
(2005 Code, § 12.06)
   (G)   (1)   The Town Council adopts a map depicting the wards established
under this section, and the map is set out below.
      (2)   Two copies of this map are on files in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer for public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
      (3)   If a conflict exists between the wards as depicted on the map and
as described in this section, the description in this section prevails.
(2005 Code, § 12.07)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3e82591aa4b118acd90b56be9176b660163681a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1615.jpg]
 
   (H)   (1)   Ward 1. Beginning at the north Town limits and Adams Street;
thence south on Adams Street to Roosevelt Road; thence southeast on Roosevelt
Road to Georgia Street; thence southwest and south on Georgia Street to the
south Town limits; thence east north and west along Town limits to Adams Street
and the point of beginning;
      (2)   Ward 2. Beginning at the west Town limits and Virginia Street;
thence east on Virginia Street to Maine Street; thence south on Maine Street to
Shamrock Street, thence east on Shamrock Street to Georgia Street; thence south
on Georgia Street to the south Town limits; thence west and north along Town
limits to Virginia Street and the point of beginning;
      (3)   Ward 3. Beginning at the intersection of Washington Street and
Roosevelt Road; thence southeast on Roosevelt Road to Georgia Street; thence
southwest and south on Georgia Street to Shamrock Street; thence west on
Shamrock Street to Maine Street; thence north on Maine Street to Virginia
Street; thence west on Virginia Street to Jefferson Street; thence north on
Jefferson Street to Illinois Street; thence west on Illinois Street to Adams
Street; thence north on Adams Street to the first east-west alley north of Ohio
Street (also known as Park Drive); thence west on said alley to Washington
Street; thence north on Washington Street to Roosevelt Road and the point of
beginning; and
      (4)   Ward 4. Beginning at the north Town limits and Adams Street; thence
south on Adams Street to Roosevelt Road; thence west on Roosevelt Road to
Washington Street; thence south on Washington Street to the first east-west
alley north of Ohio Street (also known as Park Drive); thence east on said
alley to Adams Street; thence south on Adams Street to Illinois Street; thence
east on Illinois Street to Jefferson Street; thence south on Jefferson Street
to Virginia Street; thence west on Virginia Street to the west Town limits;
thence north and east along Town limits to Adams Street and the point of
beginning.
(2005 Code, § 12.08)
(Ord. passed 12- -1982; Ord. 2002-08, passed 9-3-2002)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN GOVERNMENT
      
31.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
32.   FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS
      
33.   PURCHASING POLICIES
      
34.   GENERAL TOWN POLICIES
      
35.   FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30: TOWN GOVERNMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
30.001   Governance
   
30.002   Election of officers
   
30.003   Town Council
   
30.004   Clerk-Treasurer
   
30.005   Town Attorney
   
30.006   Building Commissioner
   
30.007   Chief of Police
   
30.008   Town Court
Elections
   
30.020   Establishing primary elections
Town Council Procedures
   
30.035   Regular meeting time
   
30.036   Special meetings; procedures
   
30.037   Quorum
   
30.038   Vacating Town Council seat
   
30.039   Calling meeting to order
   
30.040   Voting at meetings
   
30.041   Department heads
   
30.042   Appointment of special committees
   
30.043   Order of business
   
30.044   Procedures
   
30.045   Effective date of ordinances
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
30.060   Introduction of ordinances and resolutions
   
30.061   Unanimous consent
   
30.062   Readings
   
30.063   Tie; tie-breaking vote
   
30.064   Adoption
Organizations
   
30.075   Board of Metropolitan Police Commissioners
   
30.076   Drug Task Force
   
30.077   Historical Society
   
30.078   Fire Territory
   
30.079   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
30.080   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
30.081   Plan Commission
   
30.082   Redevelopment Commission
 
   
30.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.001 GOVERNANCE.
   The Town shall be governed by a Town Council composed of one Town Council
person from each ward, a Council member at large and one Clerk-Treasurer.
(2005 Code, § 11.01)
§ 30.002 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   Candidates for the office of Town Council shall reside in the ward in
which they are nominated and elected be a citizen of the United States and be
of legal voting age.
   (B)   Each Town Council member shall be elected by a vote of all of the
voters in the Town, but shall represent the ward from which he or she runs.
   (C)   Each candidate shall, prior to taking office, take and subscribe to
the usual oath or affirmation for the faithful performance of the duties of his
or her respective office.
   (D)   The election of a President and a Vice-President shall be done at each
annual meeting of the Town Council.
   (E)   A Town Council member may move his or her residence from the ward of
election to another ward without vacating his or her seat; but such Town
Council member shall not be eligible for re-election from the ward in which he
or she no longer resides.
   (F)   A Town Council member who moves his or her place of residence outside
the corporate limits of the Town vacates his or her seat on the Town Council
and shall be replaced according to the applicable state statutes.
   (G)   A Town Council member who fails to attend three consecutive regularly
scheduled meetings or six regularly scheduled meetings in any calendar year may
have his or her office declared vacant by a majority vote of the Town Council
and shall be replaced according to applicable state statutes.
   (H)   (1)   The terms of office of the Town Council members to be elected on
11-8-1983 shall be as follows: two Town Council members elected to the Town
Council receiving the fewest amount of votes at said election in 1983 shall
serve a term of three years beginning 1-1-1984 while the three Town Council
members elected with the higher amount of votes shall serve for a term of four
years beginning 1-1-1984.
      (2)   The Town Council members elected on 11-8-1983 shall serve the terms
designated in division (H)(1) above on 1-1-1984. The successors to the Town
Council members serving the initial term of three years shall be elected at a
Town election to be held on 11-4-1986, and shall serve for a term of four
years.
   (I)   All successor Town Council members elected after the 11-8-1983
election shall serve four-year terms.
   (J)   A retiring member of the Town Council shall be entitled to retain the
laptop computer issued to them in recognition of their service on the Town
Council.
(2005 Code, § 11.02) (Ord. 1982-12, passed 12- -1982; Res. 2020-21, passed 7-
20-2020)
(2005 Code, § 11.02) (Ord. 1982-12, passed 12- -1982)
§ 30.003 TOWN COUNCIL.
   The powers of the Town Council include:
   (A)   Elect a President;
   (B)   Make and establish such by-laws, ordinances and regulations as may be
necessary and not repugnant to the laws of the state and to repeal, alter or
amend same as deemed necessary;
   (C)   Shall, by ordinance, provide reasonable compensation for Council
members, Town Court Judge, Town Clerk-Treasurer, appointive personnel and
employees of the Town and to have the right to change the compensation at any
time it deems proper. Such change to be affected by a majority vote and amended
ordinance, pursuant to I.C. 36-5-3-2 and I.C. 36-5-3-2(b), the compensation of
an elected Town official may not be changed in the year for which it is fixed,
nor may it be reduced below the amount fixed for the previous year;
   (D)   Codify and publish Town ordinances;
   (E)   Make the following appointments annually:
      (1)   Town Attorney;
      (2)   Code Enforcement Officer;
      (3)   Economic Development Director;
      (4)   Chief of Police (upon recommendation of Walkerton Metropolitan
Board of Police Commissioners);
      (5)   Building Commissioner; and
      (6)   Public Works Director.
   (F)   Appoint the following vacancies as they occur:
      (1)   Walkerton Historical Society;
      (2)   Plan Commission;
      (3)   Board of Zoning Appeals;
      (4)   Library Board; and
      (5)   Walkerton Economic Development Corporation.
   (G)   The President of the Town Council shall appoint two members of the
Council to serve on the Fire Territory Board;
   (H)   Levy taxes within statutory limitations, subject to review by the
County Board of Tax Adjustment and the Department of Local Governmental
Finance;
   (I)   Purchase and hold real estate necessary for carrying out Town
functions;
   (J)   Build and repair municipal structures;
   (K)   Insure public property of the Town;
   (L)   Purchase and maintain cemeteries;
   (M)   Plant trees and acquire land for park purposes;
   (N)   Provide recreation facilities for the Town, and establish a Park Board
to conduct playground and recreational centers;
   (O)   Create a Plan Commission to promote orderly development of its
governmental units and environs;
   (P)   Provide for lighting of streets and public places;
   (Q)   Contract with owners of real estate for the construction of storm,
sanitary or combination sewers within the Town, or within four miles of the
corporate limits;
   (R)   May establish Town drainage district upon petition;
   (S)   Determine what constitutes a public nuisance and provide for its
abatement;
   (T)   Regulate salesmen, merchants, itinerant vendors and street auctions;
   (U)   Carry out other necessary functions of the Town corporation; and
   (V)   All other powers not prohibited by law.
(2005 Code, § 11.03)
§ 30.004 CLERK-TREASURER.
   The Office of Clerk-Treasurer is a combined office with the following
duties, but not limited to:
   (A)   To have custody of the Town seal, the records, books and papers of the
Town Council;
   (B)   To record the proceedings of the Town Council and present to the Town
Council for approval;
   (C)   To issue licenses and collect fees for permits and licenses issued by
the Town;
   (D)   To administer oaths;
   (E)   To be responsible for the Town funds under the direction of the Town
Council and provide a monthly accounting;
   (F)   To be business manager for municipal utilities; and
   (G)   Maintains copies of all approved ordinances and resolutions.
(2005 Code, § 11.04)
§ 30.005 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The duties of the Office of Town Attorney shall be:
   (A)   Management of the Town’s law business and of the legal affairs of each
department within the Town government;
   (B)   Prosecution of all civil violations of Town ordinances;
   (C)   Service as legal advisor to all Town departments;
   (D)   Preparation of all cases, ordinances, contracts and other legal papers
for all departments;
   (E)   Handling of all Town litigation;
   (F)   Making all title searches and examining all abstracts necessary to
opening or improving streets or other public property;
   (G)   Employing of assistants within ordinance limits; and
   (H)   Instituting all proceedings necessary to protect the rights of the
Town or the public.
(2005 Code, § 11.05)
§ 30.006 BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   The Office of Town Building Commissioner is established. Said Building
Commissioner has the principal responsibility for ensuring compliance with all
ordinances related to zoning and shall be appointed by the Town Council.
(2005 Code, § 11.07)
§ 30.007 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Town Chief of Police is appointed by the Town Council and is
subject to dismissal by the Town Council.
   (B)   Duties of the Chief of Police include:
      (1)   Enforcement of all laws and ordinances;
      (2)   Directing and taking charge of the Town’s Police Department; and
      (3)   All other duties necessary to promote safety and security within
the Town.
(2005 Code, § 11.08)
§ 30.008 TOWN COURT.
   (A)   There is hereby created, effective 1-1-1984, the Town Court, which
court shall be vested with all of the powers and duties prescribed for such
Town courts under applicable state statutes.
(2005 Code, § 17.01)
   (B)   Election of a Judge for the Town Court shall first be held in the 11-
8-1983 municipal election and then in the municipal election every fourth year
after 1983.
(2005 Code, § 17.02)
   (C)   The Office of the Town Court Judge shall be a four-year term,
beginning 1-1-1984 until 12-31-1987.
(2005 Code, § 17.03)
   (D)   (1)   Said Judge must be an attorney in good standing admitted to the
practice of law in Indiana and be at least 18 years of age.
(2005 Code, § 17.04)
      (2)   Any Town Judge who is serving 6-30-2015, who is not an attorney,
may serve as judge until:
         (a)   He or she completes his or her term; and
         (b)   Continue to serve consecutive terms.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Town Council to include in its annual
budget of the Town each and every year, funds for bond, supplies and necessary
expenses of the office, and the Judge shall receive such compensation as may be
prescribed by the Town Council.
(2005 Code, § 17.05)
(Ord. 1982-10, passed 12-20-1982)
ELECTIONS
§ 30.020 ESTABLISHING PRIMARY ELECTIONS.
   (A)   This section is hereby adopted as provided by I.C. 3-8-5-2(a) and (c);
and, provided that, candidates of Town offices shall be nominated by the use of
primary elections beginning calendar year 2015 and continuing thereafter for a
period of 12 years, until this section is repealed or modified.
   (B)   These primary elections shall be governed by all relevant provisions
of state law, including, but not limited to, the provisions of I.C. 3-8-5-2(c).
(Ord. 2014-15, passed 10-6-2014)
TOWN COUNCIL PROCEDURES
§ 30.035 REGULAR MEETING TIME.
   The regular, stated and fixed meetings of the Town Council shall be the
first and third Mondays of each month and at such hours as the Town Council may
direct.
(2005 Code, § 10.01)
§ 30.036 SPECIAL MEETINGS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   Special meetings may be convened at any time other than the
regular scheduled meetings.
      (2)   Such meetings may be called by the President of the Town Council or
by a majority of the members of the Town Council.
(2005 Code, § 10.02)
   (B)   (1)   The call for such special meetings shall be written or printed,
and shall be signed by the person(s) calling, and countersigned by the Clerk-
Treasurer. The service of such notice shall be made by the President or his or
her appointed agent as follows:
         (a)   By delivering a copy of said notice to each Town Council member
or by leaving a copy at his or her usual place of residence and emailing a copy
of said notice to each Council member;
         (b)   By posting a copy of the notice at the Walkerton Municipal
Building; and
         (c)   By mailing a copy of the notice to all news media which have
filed an annual written request in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 5-14-
1.5-1 et seq.
      (2)   All notices required hereunder shall be given at least 48 hours
before the meeting, except when the meeting is called to deal with an
emergency, as defined by I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(d), in which case notice of said
meeting will be made by posting a copy thereof, and by giving the same notice
to all news media who have request notice as is given to Town Council members.
(2005 Code, § 10.03)
§ 30.037 QUORUM.
   A quorum shall consist of not less than three members of the Town Council.
(2005 Code, § 10.04)
§ 30.038 VACATING COUNCIL SEAT.
   The seat of any member of the Town Council may be declared vacant by a two-
thirds vote of the Town Council upon the failure of any member to be present
during the sitting of the Town Council, unless excused by the members of the
Town Council.
(2005 Code, § 10.05)
§ 30.039 CALLING MEETING TO ORDER.
   At the hour fixed for the opening of the meeting, the President, Vice-
President or presiding Council member in the absence of the President and Vice-
President, shall take the chair and call the Town Council to order. Once
determined that a quorum is present, he or she shall direct the Clerk-Treasurer
to read the minutes of the preceding meeting, unless the reading of the minutes
be dispensed with.
(2005 Code, § 10.06)
§ 30.040 VOTING AT MEETINGS.
   Every Town Council member shall be present within the designated meeting
room during the meeting of the Town Council, and shall vote on each question
put, unless he or she has a personal or pecuniary interest in the event of such
question.
(2005 Code, § 10.07)
§ 30.041 DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   (A)   The department heads shall be appointed by a majority vote of the Town
Council. The department heads shall be responsible for the administration and
operation of the respective departments, and each department head shall have
the power and duty to direct such department subject to the ratification and
approval of the Town Council.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each department head to report to the Town
Council at any time the Town Council calls upon it to do so, or when it may
deem it necessary so to do.
   (C)   Personnel in the respective departments shall report to the department
heads.
(2005 Code, § 10.09)
§ 30.042 APPOINTMENT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   The President may appoint committees for special purposes. Such committees
shall expire when their purpose has been accomplished, or at such time as the
Town Council may deem appropriate.
(2005 Code, § 10.10)
§ 30.043 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Business shall be taken up by the Town Council in the following order:
      (1)   Roll call;
      (2)   Approving the minutes of previous meeting;
      (3)   Approving and referring claims and bills;
      (4)   Reception of petitions, citizen’s input and remonstrances;
      (5)   Reports from department heads and special committees;
      (6)   Old business;
      (7)   New business;
      (8)   Projects in progress; and
      (9)   Adjournment.
   (B)   The Town Council may, by a majority vote, suspend the rules.
(2005 Code, § 10.11)
§ 30.044 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Rules of order. Robert’s Rules of Order shall govern, except where
inconsistent with standing rules.
   (B)   Change of rules. Any rule or rules of the Town Council may be changed,
altered or amended by a majority vote of the Town Council, but the same shall
not be passed at the same meeting it is submitted.
   (C)   Addressing the Town Council. When any member is about to speak, he or
she shall address the chair and, upon being recognized, shall confine himself
or herself to the question before the Town Council avoiding all personalities.
   (D)   Censure. If any member, in speaking or in any other manner,
transgresses the rules of the Town Council, the Chair shall immediately call
such member to order. Said member shall immediately sit down, and not be at
liberty to proceed, except by consent of the other Town Council members. If the
violation be of such magnitude as to require censure, he or she shall be liable
thereto subject to the Town Council discussion.
   (E)   Motions. When a motion has been made and seconded the chair shall
state it, or if in writing, cause it to be read aloud by the Clerk-Treasurer
and attached to said ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 10.12)
§ 30.045 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the Town Council requiring publication shall
take effect on the date of publication, unless therein otherwise expressly
provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage and upon being signed and attested to, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
   (C)   Wherever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the part of such ordinance thus repealed or
modified shall continue in force until the publication of the ordinance
repealing or modifying the same. When publication is not required, the
repealing or modifying ordinance shall take effect immediately upon passage,
unless therein otherwise expressly provided.
(2005 Code, § 10.13)
ORDINANCE AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 30.060 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   All ordinances, orders or resolutions shall be introduced by a member of the
Town Council, or by any committee of said Town Council. All ordinances, upon
introduction, shall be consecutively numbered.
(2005 Code, § 4.01)
§ 30.061 UNANIMOUS CONSENT.
   No ordinance shall be passed on the same day or at the same meeting that it
is introduced, except by unanimous consent, and a motion to suspend the rules,
and then only in the case there are present and voting at least three-fourths
of all the members-elect of the Town Council.
(2005 Code, § 4.02)
§ 30.062 READINGS.
   (A)   Unless a proposed ordinance addresses the issue of zoning, amendment
to zoning, comprehensive plans, increasing number of council members,
prescribes or imposes a penalty for violation of said ordinance, raises rates
charged by a Town utility, contains provisions for charging a fee or cost or
three readings are otherwise required by applicable law, said proposed
ordinance may be passed and adopted upon its first presentation to the Town
Council if approved by at least four of the existing members of the Town
Council.
   (B)   If a proposed ordinance requires three separate readings by the Town
Council previous to passage, then said readings shall be as follows.
      (1)   First reading. The first reading of a proposed ordinance shall be
for information, but may be read by title only, and such title shall clearly
set forth the nature of the contents, and the proposed ordinance shall be
immediately referred to the proper committee, or may be taken up by the entire
Town Council.
      (2)   Second reading. Every proposed ordinance shall be read through by
sections at its second reading and, at such reading, it shall be in order to
commit, to amend, to lie upon the table, to postpone or to pass to its third
reading by a majority vote of all members. Any proposed ordinance failing to
receive a majority vote of all the members at its second reading shall be
considered lost. A proposed ordinance may be stricken from the files by a vote
of three-fourths of all the members before or after it has passed its second
reading.
      (3)   Third reading. On the third reading of any proposed ordinance, no
amendment shall be in order, except by a vote of three-fourths of the members-
elect of the Town Council, and in no case shall the reading of any such
proposed ordinance by sections be dispensed with on third reading. At any time
before the final passage, a proposed ordinance may be re-committed. Failing to
receive a majority of the votes of all members present on the third reading, an
ordinance is lost and shall be stricken from the files.
(2005 Code, § 4.03) (Ord. 2006-8, passed 11-6-2006)
§ 30.063 TIE; TIE-BREAKING VOTE.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council shall cast a vote in instances where
the vote cast by the members of the Town Council has resulted in a tie.
(2005 Code, § 4.04)
§ 30.064 ADOPTION.
   Every ordinance, order or resolution of the Town Council shall be considered
adopted upon its passage, enrollment, attestation and signature by the Clerk-
Treasurer and the presiding officer, and upon a record having been signed by
all members of the Town Council present.
(2005 Code, § 4.05)
ORGANIZATIONS
§ 30.075 BOARD OF METROPOLITAN POLICE COMMISSIONERS.
   The Town Board of Metropolitan Police Commissioners be created pursuant to
the provisions of I.C. 36-8-9-1 et seq., as amended from time to time and that
the conduct of the Town Board of Metropolitan Police Commissioners be as
follows.
   (A)   The Town Council now abolishes the Office of Town Marshal, effective
12-31-2014.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby establishes the Town Board of Metropolitan
Police Commissioners (hereinafter referred to as “the Board”).
   (C)   The Board shall consist of five members. Not more than three Board
members may be members of the same political party.
   (D)   Each Board member must be a resident of the Town.
   (E)   The Town Council shall appoint each member of the Board.
   (F)   The term of each Board member expires January 1 of the third year
after the Board member’s appointment; except that, with the appointment of the
first Board, one member shall be appointed for a term of one year, two members
shall be appointed for a term of two years and two members shall be appointed
for a term of three years.
   (G)   The Board shall make a recommendation to the Town Council for the
appointment of the Chief of Police for each calendar year.
   (H)   The Board shall elect officers at the first regularly scheduled
meeting of the new year. Said officers shall be a President, Vice President and
Secretary.
   (I)   The Town Attorney shall serve as attorney for the Board unless
circumstances require the employment of a separate attorney.
   (J)   The Board Secretary shall prepare minutes of each Board meeting and
said minutes shall be approved at the next scheduled Board meeting.
   (K)   The Board shall meet a minimum of four times per year with proper
publication of notice of the meetings as legally required.
   (L)   The Town Council may remove a Board member for any cause that the Town
Council considers sufficient.
   (M)   The Town Council may not appoint a police officer employed by the Town
to serve on the Board.
   (N)   Members of the Town Council may serve as members of the Board. The
Board may consist of five members of the Town Council.
   (O)   A Board member vacates his or her position on the Board when said
Board member is no longer a member of the Town Council.
   (P)   A Board member who is also a member of the Town Council may not
receive compensation as a Board member. The salary of any Board member who is
not a member of the Town Council shall be set by the Town Council and funds
appropriated therefor.
   (Q)   A Board member who is also a member of the Town Council is not
required to post a bond.
   (R)   Before performing any function of a Board member, an individual shall
take and subscribe an oath or affirmation before the Circuit Court Clerk of the
county that each appointment or removal made by the Board to or from the Police
Department under this section will be based upon the fitness of the person and
that no Board member will appoint or remove a member of the Police Department
because of the political affiliation of the person or for any other improper
reason.
   (S)   The Board may appoint, subject to the qualifications for employment
determined by the Board and approved by the Town Council, as many persons as
necessary to serve in the Police Department of the Town. One person shall be
appointed to serve as the Chief of Police. The Board may also employ other
employees that are necessary to carry on the work of the Police Department.
   (T)   The Board may recommend, and the Town Council shall determine, the
compensation to be paid to members of the Police Department in amounts that are
just and reasonable.
   (U)   All persons appointed to be members of or employed by the Police
Department must be of good moral character and serve only during good behavior.
   (V)   The Board constitutes the safety board of the Town for purposes of the
suspension, demotion or dismissal of any member of the Town Police Department.
Proceedings for the suspension, demotion or dismissal of any member of the
Police Department shall be conducted in the manner prescribed by I.C. 36-8-3-4.
The disciplinary provisions of I.C. 36-8-3-4.1 also apply to the Safety Board
and the Chief of Police.
   (W)   The Board may make general and special rules for the government and
discipline of the Town Police Department and may make special and general
orders to the Department through the Chief of Police, who is the executive head
of the Police Department.
   (X)   The Town Council shall appropriate a sum sufficient to pay the
salaries of the members of the Town Police Department.
   (Y)   The operation, management and control of the Town Police Department is
governed by statutes applicable to the management and control of other
municipal police departments if those statutes are consistent with this
section.
   (Z)   The members of the Town Police Department may exercise all powers
granted to members of police departments by other statutes. The members of the
Town Police Department are entitled to all the rights, powers and privileges
granted by statute to members of other police departments.
   (AA)   The Board may provide that all appointments to the Town Police
Department are probationary for a period not to exceed one year. If the Board
finds, upon recommendation of the Chief of the Department, during the
probationary period, that the conduct or capacity of a member is not
satisfactory, the Board shall notify the member in writing that the member is
being suspended or that the member will not receive a permanent appointment. If
a member is notified that the member will not receive a permanent appointment,
the member’s employment immediately ceases. Otherwise, at the expiration of the
probationary period, the probationary member is considered regularly employed.
   (BB)   The Town is responsible for the payment of expenses incurred by a
full time paid police office of the Town who suffers an injury or contracts an
illness during the performance of the offices duty pursuant to the provisions
of I.C. 36-8-9-8.
   (CC)   The Town shall provide each active member of the Town Police
Department with body armor for the torso. The Town shall replace the body armor
for the torso according to the replacement recommended by the manufacturer of
the body armor for the torso. An active member of the Police Department of the
Town shall not be required to pay for maintenance of the body armor for the
torso furnished by the Town. Body armor for the torso provided by the Town
remains the property of the Town. The Town may sell the body armor when it
becomes unfit for use and all money received shall be paid into the General
Fund of the Town.
   (DD)   A member of the Town Police Department retiring in good standing with
20 years of service as a member of the Department shall be entitled to keep as
their own separate property their service weapon used while employed by the
Department.
(Ord. 2014-16, passed 12-15-2014; Res. 2020-21, passed 7-20-2020)
§ 30.076 DRUG TASK FORCE.
   (A)   A fund will be established and known as the Town Area Drug Task Force
Fund. The purpose of the fund will be to reduce the drug abuse and related
problems within the Town area.
   (B)   Funds to be established for the use of emergency items of operating
expenses will be labeled confidential evidence funds. The characteristics of
the funds will be that of a petty cash fund. The custodian of the confidential
evidence funds will be the WADTF Project Director.
   (C)   The WADTF Project Director, prior to payment being authorized, must
sign initial requests for confidential evidence funds.
   (D)   The WADTF Project Director shall require a receipt for each
expenditure made from the confidential evidence funds.
   (E)   The WADTF Project Director shall periodically file a voucher, with all
original receipts totaling the cash claimed expended being attached to it, so
that the confidential evidence funds can be reimbursed for expenditures from
it. Reimbursement must be approved and made in the same manner as is required
for other expenditures of the Town.
   (F)   The WADTF Project Director will submit an internal audit of these
funds to the Town Clerk- Treasurer at the end of every quarter.
   (G)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall then complete a financial audit of the
confidential evidence funds within 30 days following the end of each fiscal
quarter.
(Ord. 2001-04, passed 4-21-2001)
§ 30.077 HISTORICAL SOCIETY.
   (A)   Creation. There shall be created the Town Historical Society.
(2005 Code, § 29.01)
   (B)   Composition. The Town Historical Society shall be composed of nine
members, five of whom shall be appointed by the President of the Town Council
and four of whom shall be appointed by the Town Council. Of the five members to
be appointed by the Town Council President, two of those members shall be
appointed for a three-year term, two shall be appointed for a two-year term and
the remaining appointment of the Town Council President shall be appointed for
a one-year term. Of the four members appointed by the Town Council, one member
shall be appointed to a three-year term, one member shall be appointed to a
two-year term and two members shall be appointed for a one-year term. After the
initial terms of the members, each shall be reappointed for terms of three
years.
(2005 Code, § 29.02)
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose of the Town Historical Society shall be to
preserve and protect the history of the Town and Town environs so as to provide
future generations of the Town’s residents with a history of their community.
(2005 Code, § 29.03)
   (D)   Authority. The Town Historical Society will such lawful authority as
may be necessary to perform those acts and fulfill those duties as may be
required to fulfill the purposes of the Society.
(2005 Code, § 29.04)
(Ord. 1983-15, passed 10-17-1983)
§ 30.078 FIRE TERRITORY.
   (A)   The Town Council, together with the Trustee and Board of Lincoln
Township, St. Joseph County, Indiana, hereby joins together under the
provisions of I.C. 36-8-19 for the purpose of entering into an agreement to
establish the Walkerton Lincoln Fire Protection Territory.
   (B)   The area constituting the Walkerton Lincoln Fire Protection Territory
(“Territory”) shall include the entire geographic area of the Town, and the
entire geographic area of Lincoln Township in St. Joseph County. It is
stipulated and agreed that Lincoln Township is contiguous to the Town. The
provider unit, which is the participating unit that is responsible for
providing the fire protection administrative services and to serve as the
fiscal body within the territory, shall be the Town.
   (C)   Upon adoption of this section, and a mirror resolution to it by the
Trustee and Board of Lincoln Township, the participating units agree to impose
a uniform tax rate upon all of the taxable property within the Territory for
funding and providing fire protection and prevention services as permitted
under I.C. 36-8-19.
   (D)   The agreement to establish the Territory, as represented in Exhibit A
attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference, shall include creation of
a Walkerton Lincoln Fire Operating Protection Territory Fund, in accordance
with I.C. 36-8-19-6(c)(3) and I.C. 36-8-19-8 by the Town from which all
expenses of operating and maintaining the fire protection service within the
Territory, including repairs, fees, salaries, depreciation on all depreciable
assets, rents, supplies, contingencies and all other expenses lawfully incurred
within the Territory shall be paid. The fund and money in the fund may not be
used for any other expense or purpose, including payment of debt service or
lease rentals on obligations issued or entered into to finance buildings or
equipment.
   (E)   The Town Council authorizes the establishment of an Equipment
Replacement Fund, in accordance with I.C. 36-8-19-6(c)(3) and I.C. 36-8-19-8 to
be used to purchase fire protection equipment, emergency ambulance equipment,
including housing, which will be used to serve the entire Territory. The
participating units have agreed to impose a uniform tax rate upon all of the
taxable property within the Territory for the Equipment replacement fund. The
property tax rate for this levy may not exceed the amount permitted under
Indiana law. The Fire Control Board of the Territory (“Fire Control Board”)
shall direct the ownership, acquisition and disposition of all real and
personal property to provide fire protection services, with such assets held in
the name of the Provider Unit. Assets included in the Territory as of the start
of the Territory shall remain titled in the name of the participating unit in
title to such asset.
   (F)   The budget for the Walkerton Lincoln Fire Protection Fund shall be
approved by the Fire Control Board of the Territory, following review and
recommendation by the Town Council and the Trustee and Board of Lincoln
Township, and shall be set in an amount sufficient to meet the expenses of
operation and maintenance of the fire protection services within the Territory.
   (G)   The agreement shall also authorize the participating units to do any
and all other acts provided for under the provisions of I.C. 36-8-19.
   (H)   The provisions of division (E) above shall become effective as of July
1, 2010, and all other provisions of this section shall become effective
immediately upon adoption, and shall remain in full force and effect until
repealed by ordinance.
(Res. 2010-1, passed - -2010)
§ 30.079 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   Department established. There is hereby established a Department of
Parks and Recreation composed of the Park Board, a Superintendent and such
other personnel as the Town Council may determine.
(2005 Code, § 18.01)
   (B)   Membership. The Park Board shall be composed of four members appointed
by the President of the Town Council on the basis of their interest in and
knowledge of parks and recreation. No more than two members shall be of the
same political party.
(2005 Code, § 18.02)
   (C)   Terms of members.
      (1)   Upon establishment of the Park Board, the terms of the members
initially appointed shall be:
         (a)   One member for a term of one year;
         (b)   One member for a term of two years;
         (c)   One member for a term of three years; and
         (d)   One member for a term of four years.
      (2)   As a term expires, each new appointment shall be made by the
President of the Town Council for a term of four years. All terms expire on the
first Monday in January, but a member shall continue in office until his or her
successor is appointed. If an appointment for a new term is not made by the
President of the Town Council by the first Monday in April, the incumbent shall
serve another term. If a vacancy occurs, the President of the Town Council
shall appoint a new member for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(2005 Code, § 18.03)
   (D)   Officers. At its first regular meeting in each year, the Park Board
shall elect a President and Vice President. The Vice President shall have
authority to act as the president of the Board during the absence or disability
of the President. The Park Board may select a Secretary from either within or
without its own membership.
(2005 Code, § 18.04)
   (E)   Powers. The Park Board shall have the power to perform all acts
necessary to acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct such
programs as are generally understood to be park and recreation functions. In
addition, the Park Board shall have all powers and duties listed in I.C. 36-10-
3.
(2005 Code, § 18.05)
   (F)   Budget. The Park Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in
the same manner as other departments of Town government as prescribed by the
State Board of Accounts. The Park Board may accept gifts, donations and
subsidies for park and recreation purposes.
(2005 Code, § 18.06)
   (G)   Secretary and quorum. The Park Board may select a Secretary from
either within or outside its membership. A majority of the members constitutes
a quorum, but no action of the Park Board shall be official unless it is
authorized by at least three members present and acting.
(2005 Code, § 18.07)
   (H)   Advisory council. The Park Board may create an advisory council and
special committees of citizens interested in the improvement of the park and
recreation in accordance with I.C. 36-10-3-17 of the Park and Recreation Law.
(2005 Code, § 18.08)
   (I)   The Walkerton Park Foundation. This committee is comprised of multiple
facets of the community.
§ 30.080 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Membership.
      (1)   A Board of Zoning Appeals is established, with membership as
follows:
         (a)   Five members appointed by the Town Council, two of whom must be
members of the Plan Commission; and
         (b)   None of the other members of the Board of Zoning Appeals may
hold other elective or appointive office in the municipal office.
      (2)   Each appointment is for a term of four years and expires on the
first day of January of the fourth year after the year of the member’s
appointment.
      (3)   At the first meeting in each calendar year, the Board shall elect
from among its members a Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson.
(2005 Code, § 14.01)
   (B)   Powers and duties. The function of the Board is to hear and determine
appeals for exceptions to Town zoning ordinances. Consistent with state law, it
may appoint and fix the compensation of a secretary and such employees as it
considers necessary to discharging its duties. The Board shall prescribe such
regulations as it considers necessary to carry out the Town zoning ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 14.02)
   (C)   Public availability. Meetings of the Board shall be open to the
public. The Board shall keep minutes of its meetings, keep records of all
examinations and other official actions, make all findings in writing and
record the vote of each member on each question. Minutes and records shall be
filed in the office of the Board and made available to the public.
(2005 Code, § 14.03)
   (D)   Hearings. Upon application for a special exception or variance, and
upon appeal from a decision of the Building Commissioner, the Board shall hold
a public hearing. Public notice setting forth the time and place shall be given
at least 15 days before the date of the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county. Interested parties shall be notified as provided by
the Board. The cost of such notices shall be borne by the person applying or
appealing.
(2005 Code, § 14.04)
   (E)   Variances. The Board may grant a variance with respect to specific
property or an intended use if, after a hearing under division (D) above, it
finds that:
      (1)   There are special circumstances relating to the property or
intended use that do not generally affect other property or other uses of the
same kind in the same district and vicinity;
      (2)   The special circumstances create hardship in that, if the variance
is granted, a substantial property right that is enjoyed by other properties in
that district and vicinity cannot be enjoyed;
      (3)   The granting of the variance will not be materially detrimental to
the public welfare or materially injurious to other property or uses in that
district and vicinity; and/or
      (4)   The granting of the variance will not materially change the
character of that district and vicinity, materially lower the market value of
adjacent property or materially increase congestion in the streets.
(2005 Code, § 14.05)
   (F)   Appeals. A decision of the Building Commissioner enforcing a zoning
ordinance may be appealed to the Board by any person who is adversely affected
by the decision. On an appeal under the above, the Board may reverse, modify or
uphold any decision that the Building Commissioner might have made. A decision
of the Board is subject to review by certiorari.
(2005 Code, § 14.06)
   (G)   Enforcement. Any person may, by suit in the Circuit Court of the
county, enjoin the violation of the zoning ordinance. The Commission or the
Board may, by mandatory injunction in the Circuit Court of the county, require
the removal of a structure erected in violation of the ordinance. A use that
violates an ordinance shall be treated as if it was a common nuisance, and it
may be abated in the same manner as such a nuisance.
(2005 Code, § 14.07)
   (H)   Filing fees. Applications and petitions filed pursuant to the
provisions of this section shall be accompanied by a filing fee which filing
fee shall be in accordance with a schedule, established by the Board of Zoning
Appeals and approved by the Town Council and placed on file in the office of
the Town Clerk-Treasurer, which office shall also serve as the office of the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
(2005 Code, § 14.08)
   (I)   Amendments. All amendments to this section shall be in accordance with
the laws of the state.
(2005 Code, § 14.09)
§ 30.081 PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby created a Plan Commission for the Town,
which Commission shall exercise all powers and duties as provided by law. This
Commission shall serve in an advisory capacity to presently established boards
and officials.
(2005 Code, § 13.01)
   (B)   Plan Commission membership, compositions and terms.
      (1)   The Town Plan Commission shall be composed of:
         (a)   Three official members; and
         (b)   Four citizen members.
      (2)   The three official members shall be in the Town government, at
least one of whom shall be a member of the Town Council, appointed by the Town
Council.
      (3)   Terms of appointed official members shall coincide with their terms
of office or appointment; except that, the Town Council, at the first regular
meeting of any year, may appoint another as its representative from the Town
government.
      (4)   The four citizen members shall be appointed by the President of the
Town Council. Not more than two of the citizen members shall be of the same
political party.
      (5)   Terms of the citizen members shall be four years.
      (6)   Terms of the citizen members shall expire on January 1 in the
fourth year following their appointment.
(2005 Code, § 13.02)
   (C)   Powers. The Commission has the power to establish its own rules and
regulations within the statute, to appoint a Secretary and professional
consultants whom it deems necessary for the making of survey, studies, maps,
plans, charts, ordinances or such other data as fall within the scope of the
Commission’s authority.
(2005 Code, § 13.03)
§ 30.082 REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Redevelopment Commission has five members, appointed as vacancies
occur by the Town Council.
   (B)   The Walkerton (“Town”) Redevelopment Commission (“Commission”) on 2-
28-2005, adopted a declaratory resolution (“Original Declaratory Resolution”)
creating the Community Economic Development Area (“Original Area”) and
Allocation Area (“Original Allocation Area”) and approved an economic
development plan (“Original Plan”) for the Area, which Original Declaratory
Resolution and Original Plan were confirmed on 6-15-2005 following a public
hearing and distribution of the Impact Statement attached thereto.
   (C)   The Walkerton Plan Commission (“Plan Commission”) adopted its order
dated 5-11-2005 (“Order”) approving the Original Declaratory Resolution and the
Original Plan.
   (D)   The Town Council adopted Res. 2005-1 on 5-16-2005 approving the
Original Declaratory Resolution and the Plan Commission Order and adopted its
resolution on or about 6-20-2005 approving the creation of the Original Area.
   (E)   On April 10, 2013, the Commission adopted its Amended and Restated
Declaratory Resolution (“Amended and Restated Declaratory Resolution”) for the
purpose of amending and restating the Original Declaratory Resolution and the
Original Plan to:
      (1)   Add approximately 31 new acres to the Original Area and the
Original Allocation Area (collectively, the “Expansion Area”); and
      (2)   To incorporate the list of projects set forth in the Amended and
Restated Plan, such projects all being in, serving or benefitting the Original
Area and the Expansion Area (referred to collectively herein, the “2013 Area”)
to the Original Plan (as amended and referred to collectively herein, the “2013
Plan”).
   (F)   At a public hearing conducted on 4-29-2013, the Commission modified
and confirmed its Amended and Restated Declaratory Resolution (“Confirmatory
Resolution” and, together with the Amended and Restated Declaratory Resolution,
“Amendatory Resolution”).
   (G)   I.C. 36-7-14-41(c) requires that any enlargement of the boundaries of
an economic development area be approved by the Town Council.
   (H)   The Town Council has reviewed the Amendatory Resolution and previously
approved the written order of the Walkerton Plan Commission regarding the
Amended and Restated Declaratory Resolution.
      (1)   The Town Council hereby finds and determines that it will be in the
best interests of the Town to expand the boundaries of the Original Area and
Original Allocation Area as described in the Amendatory Resolution.
      (2)   The expansion of the Original Area and Original Allocation Area as
described in the Amendatory Resolution is hereby approved.
      (3)   This resolution shall be effective from and after passage.
(Res. 2005-1, passed 5-16-2005; Ord. 293-1, passed 4-15-2013; Res. 2013-6,
passed 5-6-2013)
§ 30.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Action on the violation of any provision of §
30.080 of this chapter shall be punished by a fine or penalty as listed in the
Appendix: Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 14.10)
CHAPTER 31: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
31.01   Establishment
   
31.02   Violations Clerk
   
31.03   Penalty
   
31.04   Distribution of proceeds
   
Appendix:   Fines and Penalties
§ 31.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There shall be created an Ordinance Violations Bureau, pursuant to I.C. 33-
36-1-1 et seq., as amended, for the Town of Walkerton, Indiana.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 31.02 VIOLATIONS CLERK.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is appointed and shall serve as the
Violations Clerk, who shall administer the Ordinance Violations Bureau.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer and his or her staff, as agents, shall accept
written appearance, waivers of trial, admissions of violations and payment of
civil penalties in the amount and as provided by ordinance.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 31.03 PENALTY.
   The penalty for any violation of an ordinance designated in the Schedule of
Ordinances, Violations, and Civil Penalties shall be as set forth in said
ordinance. All fines must be paid in person at the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer or deposited or postmarked within 72 hours of three Town working days
of the violation notice. In any event, the civil penalty must be paid with 12
days of the violation notice.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 31.04 DISTRIBUTION OF PROCEEDS.
   All sums collected by the Violations Clerk as civil penalties for ordinance
violations shall be accounted for and paid to the Town of Walkerton as provided
by law.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 6-6-2016)
APPENDIX: FINES AND PENALTIES
   The following schedule is a list of fines and penalties for the Walkerton
Code of Ordinances.
   Table of Contents by Title of Table
Title of Table Reference
Title of Table                                              Reference
Abandoned/Junk Vehicles Penalty                             §
                                                            92.99
Animals Penalty                                             §
                                                            91.99
Burning/Fireworks Penalty                                   §
                                                            94.99
Cable Penalty                                               §
                                                            112.99
Construction Penalty                                        §
                                                            151.99
Contractors Penalty                                         §
                                                            111.99
Fair Housing Cases                                          §
                                                            95.08
Floodplains Penalty                                         §
                                                            154.99
Garage/Yard Sales Penalty                                   §
                                                            114.99
Garbage and Rubbish Penalty                                 §
                                                            52.99
General Penalty                                             § 10.99
Manufactured Housing Penalty                                §
                                                            152.99
Net Metering Penalty                                        §
                                                            55.06
Noise Penalty                                               §
                                                            130.99
Parking (Including Handicapped Parking) Penalty             §
                                                            75.99
                                                            §§
Solicitors; Itinerant Merchants and Peddlers Penalty        116.32,
                                                            116.99
Streets and Sidewalks Penalty                               §
                                                            153.99
Subdivisions Penalty                                        §
                                                            155.999
Town Government Penalty                                     §
                                                            30.999
Traffic Code Penalty                                        §
                                                            70.99
Wastewater Penalty                                          §
                                                            54.999
Water; Maintenance of Service Lines and Meter Boxes Penalty §
                                                            53.39
Zoning (Building and Land Usage) Penalty                    §
                                                            156.999
 
ABANDONED/JUNK VEHICLES PENALTY, §
92.99
   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.03 of this code of ordinances shall be shall be fined not to exceed $500.
Each and every day is considered a separate offense.
(2005 Code, § 72.06)
ANIMALS PENALTY, §
91.99
   Any animal being possessed in violation of §
91.45 of this code of ordinances may be seized by a humane officer and
impounded. Any person violating any of the provisions §
91.45 of this code of ordinances shall be fined not more than $200 for the
first offense and not more than $500 for each subsequent offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(2005 Code, § 71.21) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
BURNING/FIREWORKS PENALTY, §
94.99
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of
Ch. 94 of this code of ordinances shall be subject to a fine not to exceed
$500. Each and every day is considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Failure to comply with the terms of §§
94.01 through
94.06 of this code of ordinances shall be fined in an amount of not less than
$100, nor more than $500, for each violation. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
(2005 Code, § 47.07)
   (C)   Any person violating §§
94.20 through
94.23 of this code of ordinances shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   One hundred dollar fine for a first offense;
      (2)   Two hundred fifty dollar fine for a second offense; and
      (3)   Five hundred dollar fine for a third offense and every subsequent
offense.
   (D)   Any person found in violation of §§
94.35 through
94.40 of this code of ordinances shall be fined not less than $50 for the first
offense; not less than $100 for the second offense; not less than $250 for the
third or subsequent offense with a citation being issued for each violation.
Each day that a violation is in effect shall constitute separate offense for
which a citation may be issued.
(2005 Code, § 70.87)
(Ord. 2007-9, passed 10-15-2007)
CABLE PENALTY, §
112.99
   For the violation of any of the following provisions of the franchise in
Ch. 112 of this code of ordinances, penalties shall be chargeable to the letter
of credit as follows.
   (A)   For failure to complete system construction in accordance with §
112.17 of this code of ordinances unless the Town Council specifically approves
the delay by motion or resolution due to the occurrence of conditions beyond
the grantee’s control, the grantee shall pay $75 per day for each day or part
thereof the deficiency continues.
   (B)   For failure to provide data, documents, reports, information or to
cooperate with town during an application process or CATV system review, the
grantee shall pay $25 per day each violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   For failure to test, analyze and report on the performance of the
system following a request pursuant to this franchise, the grantee shall pay to
town $25 per day for each day or part thereof that such non-compliance
continues.
   (D)   Forty-five days following adoption of a resolution of the Town Council
determining a failure of the grantee to comply with operational maintenance
standards, the grantee shall pay to the town $75 per day for each day or part
thereof that such non-compliance continues.
(2005 Code, § 95.22)
CONSTRUCTION PENALTY, §
151.99
   Any person, agent, servant, employee or officer thereof, violating any of
the provisions of
Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances shall be fined a sum not to exceed $500.
Each and every day is considered a separate offense.
(2005 Code, § 120.19)
CONTRACTORS PENALTY, §
111.99
   (A)   Any violations of
Ch. 111 of this code of ordinances shall impose a $50 fine.
   (B)   Any person who subsequently violates any provisions of
Ch. 111 in the same year for which registration was required shall be subject
to a civil penalty of not less than $250, and not more than $2,500, and
possible suspension or revocation of any registrations issued hereunder.
   (C)   Each subsequent day of violation shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Ord. 2001-08, passed 6-4-2001)
FAIR HOUSING CASES; INTIMIDATION, §
95.08
   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in §
95.08(A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state and federal law; and, if bodily injury results, shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 1-20-2014)
FLOODPLAIN PENALTY, §
154.99
   Any person, agent, servant, employee or officer thereof, violating any of
the provisions of
Ch. 154 shall be fined a sum not to exceed $250. Each and every day is
considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
GARAGE/YARD SALES PENALTY, §
114.99
 
First offense                     Not less than $5 but not more than $100
Each and every subsequent offense Not less than $100 but not more than $500
 
(2005 Code, § 68.4)
GARBAGE AND RUBBISH PENALTY, §
52.99
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of
Ch. 52 of this code of ordinances shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
$300 or by imprisonment not to exceed six months, or both.
(2005 Code, § 70.60)
   (B)   Garbage and rubbish receptacles are not allowed to remain on streets
and curbs, except for the 48-hour timeframe for pickup listed in §
52.03. Failure to comply will result first in a warning and then a fine.
 
First fine, within one-year  $25
Second fine, within one-year $50
Third fine, within one-year  $100
 
GENERAL PENALTY, §
10.99
   Any act or omission to act that has been declared to be unlawful by the Town
Council, by this code, ordinance, rule or regulation, where no specific penalty
is provided for, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500. Every day any
violation of this code or any such ordinance, rule or regulation shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
(2005 Code, § 1.09)
MANUFACTURED HOUSING PENALTY, §
152.99
   Each day of non-compliance with the provisions of
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances by a homeowner constitutes a separate and
distinct ordinance violation, judgment of up to $2,500 per day may be entered
for a violation of
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances by a home owner. Each and every day is
considered a separate offense. A home, sited upon property in violation of
Ch. 152, shall be subject to removal from such property.
(2005 Code, § 123.5) (Ord. 1982-8, passed 8-30-1982)
NET METERING, §
55.06
   Any person or entity found to be in violation of §
55.06 shall be fined not less than $500, nor more than $2,500 for each such
violation, plus costs, in addition to the foregoing fines and at the Utility’s
sole discretion, property where a renewable generating facility is unlawfully
connected to the Utility’s system may be disconnected from the Utility’s system
until an interconnection agreement is executed between the owner of such
property and the Utility. Every day that a violation of §
55.06 occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2015-19, passed 11-16-2015)
NOISE PENALTY, §
130.99
   Any person, agent, servant, employee or officer thereof, violating any of
the provisions of
Ch. 130 shall be fined a sum not to exceed $500. Each and every day is
considered a separate offense.
PARKING (INCLUDING HANDICAPPED PARKING), §
75.99
   Any person who violates the provisions of
Ch. 75 shall be fined $10.
(2005 Code, §§ 62.15, 62.34, 62.73, 62.74)
SOLICITORS; ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND PEDDLERS PENALTY, §§
116.32,
116.99
   (A)   Any person, agent, servant, employee or officer thereof, violating any
of the provisions of §§
116.01 through
116.18 shall be fined a sum not to exceed $500. Each and every day is
considered a separate offense.
(2005 Code, § 43.19)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor
to perform any of his or her defined business within the Town without first
having obtained a license as herein provided. The penalty for failing to obtain
a license as herein required is $250.
(2005 Code, § 41.09)
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS PENALTY, §
153.99
   (A)   Any person, agent, servant, employee or officer thereof, violating any
of the provisions of
Ch. 153 shall be fined a sum not to exceed $500. Each and every day is
considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Each day any portion of §§
153.15 through
153.23 of this code of ordinances is violated shall constitute a separate
offense. A fine of $250 per day shall apply to each offense.
(2005 Code, § 92.10) (Ord. 2001-07, passed 6-4-2001)
SUBDIVISION PENALTY, §
155.999
   Any person, firm or corporation who fails to comply with or violates, any of
the regulations in
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances shall be subject to a fine of not more than
$100 for each violation, plus cost of prosecution. Each and every day, such
violation occurs, shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. passed - -)
TOWN GOVERNMENT PENALTY, §
30.999
   (A)   Any act or omission to act that has been declared to be unlawful by
the Town Council, by this code, ordinance, rule or regulation, where no
specific penalty is provided for, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding
$500. Every day any violation of this code or any such ordinance, rule or
regulation shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   Action on the violation of any provision of §
30.080 of this code of ordinances and the rights of injunction against such
violation shall be as provided by Ch. 174, Acts of 1957, of the state’s General
Assembly, and all acts amendatory thereto.
      (2)   In addition to the remedies provided under division (B)(1) above,
any violation of any provision of §
30.080 of this code of ordinances shall be deemed to be an infraction
punishable by a fine. This shall include, but not be limited to, a failure to
obtain an improvement location permit prior to initiating construction.
(2005 Code, § 14.10)
TRAFFIC CODE PENALTY, §
70.99
   Each violation of §
70.99(A) constitutes an infraction. A penalty not to exceed $250 will be
assessed upon conviction by the Town Court Judge.
(2005 Code, § 59.14)
WASTEWATER PENALTY, §
54.999
   (A)   Any act or omission to act that has been declared to be unlawful by
the Town Council, by this code, ordinance, rule or regulation, where no
specific penalty is provided for, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding
$500. Every day any violation of this code or any such ordinance, rule or
regulation shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
54.035 through
54.050 of this code of ordinances shall be served by the town with a written
notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time
limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the
period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall
be fined in an amount not exceeding $2,500 for each violation. Each day in
which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
54.035 through
54.050 of this code of ordinances shall become liable to the town for any
expense, loss or damage occasioned the town by reason of such violation.
(2005 Code, § 100.67)
   (C)   (1)   Any user who is found to have violated an order of the town or
who has failed to comply with any provision of §§
54.095 through
54.102 of this code of ordinances and the regulations or rules of the town or
orders of any court of competent jurisdiction, may be subjected to the
imposition of a civil penalty according to Ord. 4-78, § 19.
      (2)   Any user violating any of the provisions of §§
54.095 through
54.102 of this code of ordinances, or who discharges or causes a discharge
producing a deposit or obstruction, or causes damage to or impairs the POTW
shall be liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage caused by such
violation or discharge. The town shall bill the user for costs incurred by the
town for any cleaning, repair or replacement work caused by the violation or
discharge. Refusal to pay the assessed costs shall constitute a violation of §§
54.095 through
54.102 of this code of ordinances enforceable under the provisions of §
54.100 of this code of ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 102.21)
WATER; MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE LINES AND  METER BOXES PENALTY, §
53.39
   If needed repairs are not made to service lines or private lines within five
days of notification by the Town, the property owners may be charged the sum of
$5 per day for each day following the five-day period of grace that the water
wastage is allowed to continue. In cases of emergency, the Town will shut off
the water, make the repair and charge the customer for this service on the
basis of actual cost, plus overhead expenses.
(2005 Code, § 104.111)
ZONING (BUILDING AND LAND USAGE) PENALTY, §
156.999
   Any person, firm or corporation who fails to comply with or violates, any of
the regulations in
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances shall be subject to a fine of not more than
$100 for each violation, plus cost of prosecution. Each and every day, such
violation occurs, shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
CHAPTER 32: FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS
Section
Specific Funds and Accounts
   
32.01   Sale of surplus assets fund account
   
32.02   Major Moves Fund
   
32.03   Donation Fund Account
   
32.04   Park and Recreation Fund
   
32.05   Beautification Fund
   
32.06   Matching Grant Fund Account
   
32.07   Economic Development Revolving Fund; Commission
   
32.08   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
32.09   Ambulance Operating Fund
   
32.10   Promotional account
   
32.11   Revolving Improvement Fund
   
32.12   Confidential Expenditure Fund
   
32.13   LOIT special funds; local income tax distributions
Procedures
   
32.25   Authorization to transfer funds
SPECIFIC FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS
§ 32.01 SALE OF SURPLUS ASSETS FUND ACCOUNT.
   The Town Council hereby establishes a separate fund which shall be known as
the Sale of Fund Surplus for the purpose of receiving and disbursing monies
from the sale of items determined to be surplus.
(Ord. 2007-10, passed 11-5-2007)
§ 32.02 MAJOR MOVES FUND.
   The Town creates and establishes the Town Major Moves Fund, effective 10-2-
2006, for the purpose of receiving major move funds and spending same in
accordance with applicable law.
(Ord. 2006-9, passed 10-2-2006)
§ 32.03 DONATION FUND ACCOUNT.
   The Town Council hereby creates a Donation Fund Account to accept donations
from the community to be used as the Town Council determines to be appropriate.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 4-18-2005)
§ 32.04 PARK AND RECREATION FUND.
   The Town Council hereby creates and establishes a separate fund which shall
be known as the Park and Recreation Grant Fund to be used for the purpose of
distributing funds from the park grant received by the Park Department in
connection with Town park projects. The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to
transfer the park grant funds previously received by the new Park and
Recreation Fund created by this section.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 32.05 BEAUTIFICATION FUND.
   Budgeted funds will be added to the Town Beautification Fund as deemed
necessary and appropriate by the Town Council. The Town Council hereby creates
and establishes a separate fund which shall be known as the Town Beautification
Fund to be used for the purpose of paying the expense of projects for the
beautification of the Town, including the highway approaches to the Town and
the public streets and public properties within the Town.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 9-6-2005)
§ 32.06 MATCHING GRANT FUND ACCOUNT.
   The Town Council hereby establishes a separate fund which shall be known as
the Matching Grant Fund for the purpose of having funds available to meet
matching grant requirements as necessary and that said Matching Grant Fund
shall consist of funds as provided by the approved budget of the Town and as
derived from other sources as determined appropriate by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 4-18-2005)
§ 32.07 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT REVOLVING FUND; COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created the Town Economic Development
Commission to carry out the provisions as set forth below and as enacted by the
General Assembly of the state in the Promotion of Economic Development Act and
as may be amended from time to time (I.C. 18-6-4.5-1 et seq.).
(2005 Code, § 21.01)
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of said Commission shall be to investigate, study
and survey the need for job opportunities, industrial diversification and
economic stability, development and general welfare of the Town, and to carry
out the duties and powers as set forth in the Act.
(2005 Code, § 21.02)
   (C)   Members. The members of said Commission shall be appointed and shall
perform the duties and exercise the powers all as set forth in the Act.
(2005 Code, § 21.03)
   (D)   Economic Development Fund. There is hereby created a separate Economic
Development Fund into which contributions may be deposited by various
individuals, corporations or groups, to be used for economic development
purposes. The Town Council shall also review and approve a budget for economic
development, including the salary of the Director, and may allocate tax or
utility revenues to the Economic Development Fund.
(2005 Code, § 21.04)
   (E)   Director of Economic Development. There is hereby created the position
of Director of Economic Development who shall be responsible for coordinating
efforts to promote and plan economic development in the Town. The Director
shall be subject to the supervision and direction of the Town Council.
(2005 Code, § 21.05)
   (F)   Tax Increment Financing (TIF).
      (1)   There is hereby established an Tax Increment Financing Fund to be
funded with such funds as the Town Council shall appropriate, transfer or
receive as grants and gifts. The purpose of the Fund is to segregate funds for
the Town to make capital improvements in the TIF district.
      (2)   Eligible businesses are those permitted by the zoning ordinances in
commercial and industrial districts, located in areas zoned for those uses and
within the boundaries of the Town.
      (3)   The Walkerton Redevelopment Commission (“Commission”) shall
administer the Fund assisted by two non-voting designated representatives. One
from the Walkerton Area Economic Development Corp. and five appointed by the
Town Council as vacancies occur.
      (4)   The interest rates and terms of any loans are to be established by
the Town Council at the time of the loan negotiation. Rates are not to be less
than 3% below the current prime rate. All loans shall have a minimum ratio of
2:1 of conventional funds to those from this Fund. A report shall be made to
the Town Council before such loans are submitted for final approval. These
reports and all loan documents shall be in a file maintained by the Town Clerk-
Treasurer.
      (5)   Loan proceeds may be applied to capital costs associated with the
purchase, construction or expansion of industrial or commercial real estate,
building, purchase of equipment, machinery, supplies or materials.
      (6)   Eligibility of any applicant shall be determined by the Commission.
They shall make all evaluations of the assets of any borrower and of its
ability to repay loan(s). To further the purpose of the fund, the Commission is
encouraged to prudently assume greater risk than that which normally might be
taken by regulated lenders. Collateral shall be pledged for any loan.
      (7)   The borrower may not relocate the funded business activity outside
the corporate boundary limits of the Town, or the loan shall become immediately
due and payable.
(2005 Code, § 21.10)
(Ord. 4-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 32.08 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby re-established the Town Cumulative Capital Development
Fund.
(2005 Code, § 32.01)
   (B)   An ad valorem property tax levy will be imposed and the revenues from
the levy will be retained in the Town Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
(2005 Code, § 32.02)
   (C)   The maximum rate of levy under division (B) above will not exceed
$0.15 per $100 assessed valuation for 1999 and thereafter.
(2005 Code, § 32.03)
   (D)   The Town Cumulative Capital Development Fund is re-established until
such time as the Fund is rescinded.
(2005 Code, § 32.04)
   (E)   The funds accumulated in the Town Cumulative Capital Development Fund
will be used for:
      (1)   Cumulative capital firefighting, ambulance, police building,
equipment, as described in I.C. 36-8-14;
      (2)   Cumulative capital building, as described in I.C. 36-9-16-2;
      (3)   Cumulative capital improvement, as described in I.C. 36-9-16-3;
      (4)   Cumulative capital street, as described in I.C. 36-9-16.5;
      (5)   Cumulative capital general improvement, as described in I.C. 36-9-
17; and
      (6)   Cumulative capital building park, as described in I.C. 36-10-3-21.
(2005 Code, § 32.05)
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding division (E) above, funds accumulated in the
Town Cumulative Capital Development Fund may be spent for purposes other than
the purposes stated in division (E) above, if the purpose is to protect the
public health, welfare or safety in an emergency situation which demands
immediate action.
      (2)   Money may be spent under the authority of this section only after
the Town Council President issues a declaration that the public health, welfare
and safety is in immediate danger that requires the expenditure of money in the
Fund.
(2005 Code, § 32.06)
   (G)   This Fund takes effect upon approval of the State Board of Tax
Commissioners.
(2005 Code, § 32.07)
(Ord. 1998-5, passed - -1998)
§ 32.09 AMBULANCE OPERATING FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established an Ambulance Operating Fund.
   (B)   The purpose of such fund is to provide financing for the necessary
existence and operation of the Walkerton Lincoln Fire Protection Territory.
Expenses and activities for which fund proceeds may be directed include, but
are not limited to, payment of bills and expenses, equipment, supplies, repairs
and maintenance for the Walkerton Lincoln Fire Protection Territory.
   (C)   Previously, this Fund was a department of the General Fund of the
Town.
   (D)   This section took full force and effect on 1-1-1998, and after due
attestation.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 8-4-1997)
§ 32.10 PROMOTIONAL ACCOUNT.
   (A)   The Town Development Fund shall pay the expense of or to reimburse
Town officials as the cause may be for the expense incurred in promoting the
best interest of the Town.
   (B)   A Town Development Fund is created to be used to pay expenses incurred
in promoting the betterment of the Town, including, but not necessarily limited
to, the following:
      (1)   Membership dues in local, regional, state and national associations
of civic, educational or governmental nature which have, as their purpose, the
betterment and improvement of municipal operations;
      (2)   Direct expenses for travel, meals and lodging in conjunction with
Town business or meetings of organizations to which the Town belongs;
      (3)   Expenses incurred in the promotion of economic or industrial
development for the Town, including, but not limited to, meeting room rental,
meals, decorations, travel, awards, memorabilia;
      (4)   Expenses incurred in developing relations with other units of
government; and
      (5)   Other expenses of a civic or governmental nature deemed to be in
the best interest of the Town.
   (C)   The Town Promotional Fund shall pay for the expense incurred in the
promotion of the Town and Town employee’s including, but not limited to, Town
memorabilia:
      (1)   Polo shirts;
      (2)   Pens/pencils;
      (3)   Ball caps;
      (4)   Mugs; and
      (5)   Other merchandise.
(2005 Code, § 31.02) (Ord. 1982-7, passed 8-30-1982; Ord. 2002-07, passed - -
2002)
§ 32.11 REVOLVING IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   There is hereby created and established a General Improvement Fund, as
authorized under I.C. 36-9-37-46. The purpose of such Fund is to establish a
permanent revolving fund to be used for financing public improvements which are
to be paid for by special assessments. Accounting for the financing of public
improvements handled through this revolving fund requires the use of the
regular Barrett Law forms that are applicable. The Town Council is hereby
authorized to fix the time within which assessments shall be paid, which time
shall not extend beyond a period of five years. The aggregate sum which may be
appropriated and levied shall not exceed the equivalent of $0.50 on each $100
of net taxable valuation. All collections on such assessments shall be
receipted to the General Improvement Fund and all portions of such costs as
shall be assumed by the Town of public improvement projects shall also be
receipted to this Fund, thus making the General Improvement Fund self-
sustaining. The Town Council, upon establishing the assessment, may also
determine interest rates, not to exceed 12%, and penalties, not to exceed 10%,
and all such interest and penalties collected on assessment are to be receipted
to the Town General Fund.
(2005 Code, § 31.01)
§ 32.12 CONFIDENTIAL EXPENDITURE FUND.
   There shall be included in each annual Town budget a Confidential
Expenditure Fund in an amount to be determined by the Town Council, which Fund
shall be included in those funds budgeted for the Metropolitan Police
Department and shall be treated as a petty cash fund under I.C. 36-8-3 under
the supervision of the Chief of Police or an officer he or she designates. The
Town Council shall adopt, by resolution, a minimum documentation procedure in
compliance with the requirement of the State Board of Accounts.
(2005 Code, § 31.03)
§ 32.13 LOIT SPECIAL FUNDS; LOCAL INCOME TAX DISTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   The Town of Walkerton creates and establishes the Walkerton LOIT
Special Fund effective May 16, 2016 for the purpose of receiving LOIT special
funds and spending same in accordance with applicable law.
   (B)   Senate Bill 67:
      (1)   Provides for a supplemental distribution of local income taxes when
the balance in a county’s local income tax trust account exceeds 15% (rather
than 50%, under current law) of the certified distributions to be made to the
county;
      (2)   Specifies the accounting, allocation method and distribution
requirements for supplemental distributions;
      (3)   Requires before May 2016, a one time special allocation of the
balance in a county’s trust account as of December 31, 2014;
      (4)   Provides that a taxing unit’s allocation amount is to be determined
in the same manner as a supplemental distribution would have generally been
determined under the former income taxes;
      (5)   Requires a special distribution of the allocation amount;
      (6)   Provides that at least 75% of the distributions made to a county,
city or town must be:
         (a)   Used exclusively for local road construction, maintenance or
repair, or capital projects for aviation, including capital projects of an
airport authority; or
         (b)   Deposited in a Rainy Day Fund and later used for those purposes.
      (7)   Provides that any remaining distribution to a county, city or town
may be used for any purposes of the county, city or town; and
      (8)   Requires the allocation amount for other taxing units to be
deposited in the taxing unit’s Rainy Day Fund.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 5-16-2016)
PROCEDURES
§ 32.25 AUTHORIZATION TO TRANSFER FUNDS.
   No monies shall be transferred from one fund to another fund, including
transfers from one line item to another line item within the same fund, without
the prior authorization of the Town Council which authorization shall be
documented in the minutes of the meeting where such authorization was granted.
(Res. 2004-8, passed 9-7-2004)
CHAPTER 33: PURCHASING POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Purchasing agency
Purchasing Rules
   
33.15   Protection of offers; status of documents as public records
   
33.16   Discussions with offerors responding to a request for proposals
   
33.17   Delay of opening offers
   
33.18   Evidence of financial responsibility
   
33.19   Use of request for proposal for purchases of designated types of
supplies
   
33.20   Modification and termination of conflicts
   
33.21   Purchase of services
   
33.22   Small business set-aside purchases
   
33.23   Indiana business preference
   
33.24   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States
   
33.25   Credit card purchasing policy
Purchasing Policies
   
33.40   Publication of notices
   
33.41   Receiving offers
   
33.42   Small purchases
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 PURCHASING AGENCY.
   (A)   The Town Purchasing Agency (the “Purchasing Agency”) is established as
the purchasing agency for the Town.
(2005 Code, § 25.01)
   (B)   The Purchasing Agency shall have all the powers and duties authorized
under I.C. 5-22, as may be supplemented from time to time by ordinances adopted
by the Town Council and policies adopted by the Purchasing Agency.
(2005 Code, § 25.02)
   (C)   The Purchasing Agency shall act as the purchasing agent for every
board, office, commission, council, department or other establishment of the
Town.
(2005 Code, § 25.03)
   (D)   The Purchasing Agency may designate in writing any employee of the
Town as a purchasing agent. Therefore, the Purchasing Agency sets forth in
writing the following purchasing agents:
      (1)   Town Council members;
      (2)   Town Clerk-Treasurer;
      (3)   Walkerton Chief of Police;
      (4)   Walkerton Assistant Chief of Police;
      (5)   Public Works Director;
      (6)   Wastewater and Motor Vehicle Highway Assistant Superintendent;
      (7)   Electric employees;
      (8)   Fire Chief;
      (9)   Assistant Fire Chiefs;
      (10)   EMS Director;
      (11)   Historical Society officers;
      (12)   Building Commissioner;
      (13)   Park Board;
      (14)   Park and Recreation Superintendent; and
      (15)   Economic Director.
(2005 Code, § 25.04)
(Ord. 1998-6, passed 7-6-1998)
PURCHASING RULES
§ 33.15 PROTECTION OF OFFERS; STATUS OF DOCUMENTS AS PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   Protection of offers prior to opening. The purchasing agent shall
retain all offers received in a secure location prior to the date and time at
which offers will be opened in order to prevent disclosure of the contents
prior to the opening of the offers.
   (B)   Uunobstructed evaluation of offers. After offers have been opened, the
purchasing agent shall be responsible for maintaining the offers in such a
manner as to permit evaluation of the offers by the persons responsible for
evaluating the offers.
   (C)   Public records status of bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be available for public inspection and copying after
the time of the bid opening.
   (D)   Register of proposals. The purchasing agent shall prepare a register
of proposals for each request for proposals issued which shall contain
information concerning the proposals available for public inspection and
copying. Proposals may not be disclosed.
(2005 Code, Ch. 25, II, § 1) (Ord. 1998-7, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 33.16 DISCUSSIONS WITH OFFERORS RESPONDING TO A REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS.
   The purchasing agent may conduct discussions with, and best and final offer
may be obtained from, responsible offerors who submit proposals determined to
be reasonably susceptible of being selected for a contract award.
(2005 Code, Ch. 25, II, § 2) (Ord. 1998-7, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 33.17 DELAY OF OPENING OF OFFERS.
   When the Town Council makes a written determination that it is in the
Purchasing Agency’s best interests, offers may be opened after the time stated
in the solicitation. The date, time and place of the rescheduled opening must
be announced at the time and place of the originally scheduled opening.
(2005 Code, Ch. 25, II, § 3) (Ord. 1998-7, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 33.18 EVIDENCE OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Purchases less than $50,000. The purchasing agent may not require
evidence of financial responsibility when the estimated cost of a purchase is
less than $50,000.
   (B)   Purchases between $25,000 and $100,000. The solicitation may include a
requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility. If
evidence of financial responsibility is required, the solicitation must
indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or certified
check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the purchase.
   (C)   Purchases over $100,000. The solicitation shall include a requirement
that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility and must indicate
the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or certified check is
required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the purchase.
   (D)   Small business set-asides. The purchasing agent may determine that no
evidence of financial responsibility shall be required for a small business
set-aside purchase.
(2005 Code, Ch. 25, II, § 4) (Ord. 1998-7, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 33.19 USE OF REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL FOR PURCHASES OF DESIGNATED TYPES OF
SUPPLIES.
   The purchasing agent determines that:
   (A)   It is either not practicable or not advantageous to purchase certain
types of supplies by sealed competitive bidding; and
   (B)   Receiving proposals is the preferred method for purchasing the
following types of supplies:
      (1)   Asphalt;
      (2)   Salt; and
      (3)   Gravel.
(2005 Code, Ch. 25, II, § 5) (Ord. 1998-7, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 33.20 MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Price adjustments. The purchasing agent may include provisions to
permit price adjustments in a purchase contract. The following provisions for
price adjustments may be included.
      (1)   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement on a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon after
the beginning of performance as possible.
      (2)   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices specified in the
contract or subsequently agreed upon.
      (3)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all
as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon.
      (4)   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contracting parties may mutually agree upon.
      (5)   In the absence of agreement by the parties, price adjustments must
be computed by a unilateral determination by the governmental body of the costs
attributable to the events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of
profit or fee, all as computed by the governmental body in accordance with
applicable rules adopted by the governmental body.
   (B)   Adjustments in time of performance. The purchasing agent may include
provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of
performance under the contract.
   (C)   Unilateral rights of the Purchasing Agency. The purchasing agent may
include in a purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of
the Purchasing Agency to order changes in the work within the scope of the
contract or to order temporary work stoppage or delays in time of performance.
   (D)   Quantity variations. The purchasing agent may include in a purchase
contract provisions dealing with variations between the estimated quantities of
work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
(2005 Code, Ch. 25, II, § 6) (Ord. 1998-7, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 33.21 PURCHASE OF SERVICES.
   (A)   The Purchasing Agency determines that each purchasing agent may
purchase services except for the services of attorneys in whatever manner the
purchaser determines to be reasonable.
   (B)   The Purchasing Agency may not require any agency, department or office
to purchase services in any particular manner.
(2005 Code, Ch. 25, II, § 7) (Ord. 1998-7, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 33.22 SMALL BUSINESS SET-ASIDE PURCHASE.
   (A)   The Purchasing Agency hereby determines to establish criteria for
determining qualifications as a small business and to identify specific
supplies for small business set-aside purchases.
   (B)   A business qualifies as a small business if it qualifies as a small
business under standards established by the State Department of Commerce.
   (C)   Businesses that are not small businesses:
      (1)   A wholesale business, if its average annual sales for its most
recently completed fiscal year exceeds $4,000,000;
      (2)   A construction business, if its average annual receipts for the
preceding three fiscal years exceeds $4,000,000;
      (3)   A retail business or business selling services, if its annual sales
and receipts exceed $500,000; and
      (4)   A manufacturing business, if it employs more than 100 persons.
(2005 Code, Ch. 25, II, § 8) (Ord. 1998-7, passed 7-6-1998; Ord. 1998-8, passed
7-6-1998)
§ 33.23 INDIANA BUSINESS PREFERENCE.
   An offeror is an “Indiana business” if it is owned or operated in the State
of Indiana.
(2005 Code, Ch. 25, II, § 9) (Ord. 1998-7, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 33.24 PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES.
   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all county
purchases and shall be purchased unless the county determines that:
   (A)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in reasonable
available quantities;
   (B)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds
by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
   (C)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
   (D)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not in
the public interest.
(2005 Code, Ch. 25, II, § 10) (Ord. 1998-7, passed 7-6-1998)
§ 33.25 CREDIT CARD PURCHASING POLICY.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby approves of the continuing existence and use
of the current credit card account, including the payment of any necessary
annual fees. However, no purchases shall be made using any credit card for any
item(s) that exceed a cost of $5,000 without the express prior approval of the
Town Council.
   (B)   All credit cards issued in the name of the Town of Walkerton shall be
kept, maintained and in the possession of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   The credit cards shall only be used when necessary, in the judgment of
the Clerk-Treasurer, for the efficient and expedient purchase of supplies and
materials for the ownership, use and benefit of the Town.
   (D)   (1)   Any and all Town employees needing to use a credit card as
described above shall present to their supervisor a request specifying the item
(s) to be purchased, the identity of the merchant, the cost of the item(s) and
the Town fund that should be charged.
      (2)   If approved by the supervisor, the request shall be presented to
the Clerk-Treasurer for final approval. Once approved, the employee shall sign
out a credit card for the approved purchase, writing down the date and time
that the credit card was taken.
      (3)   After the purchase, the credit card shall be returned immediately
to the Clerk-Treasurer, and the employee shall write down the date and time of
the return of the credit card.
      (4)   Upon return, the employee shall also deliver to the Clerk-Treasurer
a written or printed receipt for the item(s) purchased.
      (5)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a log or accounting of all
approved written requests, dates and times of sign out and return, and will
provide receipts for items purchased to the Accounts Payable Clerk.
   (E)   Any employee using a Town credit card in violation of the above policy
shall be responsible for reimbursing the Town for any and all amounts charged
on the credit cards, and shall further be subject to discipline pursuant to the
Town of Walkerton Town Employee Rules, Regulations and Benefits.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed - -2016)
PURCHASING POLICIES
§ 33.40 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   (A)   Invitation for bids. All notices of invitation for bids shall be
published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the South Bend Tribune. All notices
of invitation for bids shall be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the
Town and posted at the Walkerton Municipal Building and the local bank. The
purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to provide a
reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of bids. The notice
will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second publication
must occur at least ten days prior to the date the bids will be opened.
   (B)   Request for proposals. All notices of request for proposals shall be
published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the South Bend Tribune. All notices
of invitation for bids shall be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the
Town and posted at the Walkerton Municipal Building. The purchasing agent shall
schedule the publication of notice to provide a reasonable amount of time for
preparation and submission of proposals. The notice will be published two
times, at least one week apart. The second publication must occur at least
seven days prior to the date the proposals will be opened.
   (C)   Request for specifications. All notices of request for specifications
shall be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the South Bend Tribune. All
notices of invitation for bids shall be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-
1 in the Town and posted at the Walkerton Municipal Building and the local
bank. The purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to provide
a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of proposals. The
notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second
publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the proposals will
be opened.
   (D)   Electronic notices. Whenever a notice or other material, including
specifications, an invitation for bids, request for proposals or request for
specifications, is sent by mail, the purchasing agent may also send the notice
or other material by electronic means, provided that the transmission of the
information is at least as efficient as mailing the information.
(2005 Code, Ch. 25, III, § 1) (Ord. passed 7-6-1998)
§ 33.41 RECEIVING OFFERS.
   (A)   Opening of offers. Bids received in response to an invitation for bids
must be opened publicly in the presence of at least one or more witnesses at
the time and place designated in the invitation for bids. Proposals received in
response to a request for proposals must be opened so as to avoid disclosure of
the contents to competing offerors during the process of negotiation. Proposals
received in response to a request for specifications may be opened as specified
in the request for specifications.
   (B)   Electronic receipt of offers. The Purchasing Agency may receive
electronic offers in response to an invitation to bid, request for proposals or
request for specifications. A Purchasing Agency may only receive an electronic
offer if:
      (1)   The solicitation includes the procedure for the electronic
transmission of the offer; and
      (2)   The Purchasing Agency receives the offer on a fax machine or other
system with a security feature that protects the contents of an electronic
offer with the same degree of protection as provided to an offer not
transmitted electronically.
   (C)   Correction and withdrawal of bids. An offeror may correct inadvertent
errors in a bid up to the time at which bids will be opened by supplementing
the erroneous bid and submitting a revised bid. A bidder may not supplement an
inadvertently erroneous bid after the time at which the bids were opened. A
bidder may withdraw a bid containing inadvertent errors up to the time at which
bids will be opened and for a period of not more than 24 hours after the time
at which the bids were opened.
   (D)   Cancellation of solicitation. When the Purchasing Agency makes a
written determination that it is in the Town’s best interest, the purchasing
agent may cancel a solicitation or reject all offers; provided that, the
solicitation included information concerning the procedure for cancellation.
(2005 Code, Ch. 25, III, § 2) (Ord. passed 7-6-1998)
§ 33.42 SMALL PURCHASES.
   The purchasing agent may purchase supplies with an estimated cost of less
than $50,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes.
(2005 Code, Ch. 25, III, § 3) (Ord. passed 7-6-1998)
CHAPTER 34: GENERAL TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Urban development areas
   
34.02   Public retirement system
   
34.03   ADA guidelines adopted; Coordinator
   
34.04   Statewide court case management system
   
34.05   Credit card payments
   
34.06   Fixed asset and inventory procedures
   
34.07   Health savings accounts
   
34.08   Bereavement donation policy
   
34.09   Financial software systems
   
34.10   Non-discrimination policy
   
34.11   Vehicle inspection fee
   
34.12   Variance thresholds
   
34.13   Internal control standards
   
34.14   Reproducing public records and providing certain services
§ 34.01 URBAN DEVELOPMENT AREAS.
   (A)   The Plan Commission of the Town is hereby designated as the agency of
the Town which shall receive all applications from persons, firms,
organizations or corporations requesting that certain real estate be designated
as an urban development area.
(2005 Code, § 22.01)
   (B)   The fees to be paid by the applicants on the real estate to be
designated as an urban development area, shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer
of the Town, and shall thereafter remain the property of the Town, and are as
set out in the Fee Schedule in Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 22.02)
   (C)   The Plan Commission of the Town shall prepare printed forms and
require all applicants applying for designation of real estate as an urban
development area to use such forms in making application for such designation.
The Plan Commission shall consider the following items in preparing such
printed forms: proposed use of real estate; proposed type and cost of buildings
and equipment, if improvements are proposed; proposed operation and number of
jobs to be created; real estate description; and proposed development of the
real estate if improvements and/or buildings are not immediately contemplated.
(2005 Code, § 22.03)
   (D)   The Plan Commission, after receiving an application requesting urban
development area designation, shall investigate the applicant to determine the
best interests of the Town, shall hold public hearings thereon, if necessary or
advisable, and shall thereafter make written recommendations to the Town
Council as to the desirability or non-desirability of designating the area
described in the application as an urban development area. The Town Council
shall make final approval of all applications, and the application shall be
attached to the ordinance.
(2005 Code, § 22.04)
   (E)   This section shall apply only to structures on real estate located in
the Town which is zoned industrial.
(2005 Code, § 22.05)
   (F)   If improvements as proposed in the application for urban development
status are not started within one year from the date of designation, the urban
development permit therefor shall expire; however, the applicant may re-apply,
and the application fee therefor shall be 50% of the original fee. Such re-
application shall be made within 90 days from the date of expiration of the
one-year period.
(2005 Code, § 22.06)
   (G)   Where an area has been designated as an urban development area, such
status shall expire five years after the date of designation; however, such
expiration shall not affect any persons, firms, organizations or corporations
who have applied for and received tax abatement status, in accordance with the
law.
(2005 Code, § 22.07)
   (H)   This section shall not give any person, firm, organization or
corporation any rights as to tax abatement status as would be a longer period
of time, or greater than as provided by the laws of the state.
(2005 Code, § 22.08)
§ 34.02 PUBLIC RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   The Town Police Department elects to become a participating unit in
the 1977 Police and Firefighters’ Pension and Disability Fund (the “1997
Fund”), being I.C. 36-8-8-0.1 et seq., as established by Pub. Law No. 9
(Special Session 1977), and all acts amendatory thereof and supplemental
thereto.
      (1)   The Town agrees to make the required contributions to the 1997
Fund.
      (2)   The following are declared to be covered by the 1977 Fund: all
full-time police officers presently employed by the Town Police Department who
have met the minimum medical standards of the 1977 Fund and all subsequent
employees hired as full-time police officers for the Town Police Department.
Any other resolution for a retirement system for the Town full-time police
officers presently employed is superceded by this section.
      (3)   The active date of the participation membership of the Town Police
Department shall begin on 1-1-2015.
   (B)   The Town elects to become a participant in the Public Employees
Retirement Fund as established by the Acts of 1945, Chapter 340 and all Acts
amendatory and supplemental thereto.
      (1)   The Town elects to make the required contributions under the Public
Employees Retirement Fund Act which is the Acts of 1945, Chapter 340 and all
Acts amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto, including specifically the
Acts of 1955, Chapter 329, commonly designated as “The Indiana Public Employees
Social Security Integration and Supplemental Retirement Benefits Act”.
      (2)   (a)   The following are declared to be covered by the Fund: all
eligible Town of Walkerton employees and including the Clerk-Treasurer.
         (b)   Effective 1-1-2016, the Town shall pick up all of the mandatory
contribution by all except EMT employees.
         (c)   1.   The above contributions, even though designated as employee
contributions for state law purposes, are being paid by the employer in
addition to regular compensation as a supplemental contribution that is
separate and distinct from the employees’ current or future compensation, and
in lieu of contributions by the employees.
            2.   Such contributions will not be included in the gross income of
the employees for any fax reporting purposes, that is for federal, state or
local income tax withholding, or FICA taxes, until distributed either through a
pension benefit or a lump sum payment. These contributions are made on a pre-
tax basis and are paid by the employer on behalf of the employee.
         (d)   Said employees shall not be entitled the option of choosing to
receive the contributed amounts directly instead of having them paid by the
employer to the specified pension fund.
      (3)   It is hereby declared that none of the classifications or positions
specified in division (B)(2) above are compensated on a fee basis or of an
emergency nature, or in a part-time category.
      (4)   The active participating membership of the Town shall begin on 7-1-
1971.
      (5)   This section shall be in full force and effect from date of passage
and upon approval of the Town Council of the Public Employees Retirement Fund
of Indiana, except that active participation membership shall begin on the date
set forth in division (B)(4) above.
(Res. passed 6-15-1971; Res. passed 12-15-2014; Res. passed 10-5-2015)
§ 34.03 ADA GUIDELINES ADOPTED; COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby adopts the 2010 Americans with Disabilities
(ADA) Standards for Accessible Design and 2011 Guidelines for Pedestrian
Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way.
   (B)   The Town Grievance Procedure under the Americans with Disabilities
Act, a copy of which is attached to the resolution codified herein, is adopted
as the grievance procedure for addressing complaints alleging discrimination on
the basis of disability in the provision of services, activities, programs or
benefits by the Town.
(Res. 2012-R5, passed 3-5-2012; Res. 2012-R6, passed 3-5-2012)
§ 34.04 STATEWIDE COURT CASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   The Town Council supports the implementation of the statewide Odyssey case
management system for the Town Court and that the implementation of Odyssey is
in the best interest of the Town.
(Res. 2013-11, passed 10-21-2013)
§ 34.05 CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to enter into an agreement with PayGOV,
LLC, Indianapolis, Indiana, for the purpose of enabling the Town to accept
credit cards in the conduct of monetary transactions.
(Ord. 2008-2A, passed 5-19-2008)
§ 34.06 FIXED ASSET AND INVENTORY PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Each department head shall file a fixed asset report with the Town
Clerk-Treasurer no earlier than January 1 of each calendar year and no later
than January 20 of each calendar year. The fixed asset report shall include
motor vehicles, machinery, equipment and any other fixed asset with an
estimated value of $5,000 or more. The list shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Description of asset;
      (2)   Date of acquisition;
      (3)   Estimated life expectancy; and
      (4)   Estimated value.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall file a fixed asset report which
includes all parcels of real estate together with improvements owned by the
Town in addition to other fixed assets within the Clerk- Treasurer’s office.
   (C)   (1)   Each department head shall file an inventory report no earlier
than January 1 of each calendar year and no later than January 20 of each
calendar year listing all items of inventory which have a value of $1,000 or
more.
      (2)   Inventory would include supplies and parts available for use.
   (D)   The fixed asset report and inventory report shall be as of December 31
of the preceding year.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall make copies of the submitted fixed asset
reports and inventory reports for distribution to members of the Town Council
before the first scheduled Town Council meeting in February of each calendar
year.
   (F)   From one year’s report to the next year’s report, all new assets
should be specifically noted and any deleted or non-existing assets should be
specifically noted with an explanation for their disposition.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 3-17-2008)
§ 34.07 HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS.
   The Town approves the creation and use of health savings accounts (HSA) by
and for the benefit of the employees of the Town. This resolution went into
effect as of 1-1-2007.
(Res. 2007-12, passed 12-15-2007)
§ 34.08 BEREAVEMENT DONATION POLICY.
   The Town Council is hereby authorized to make monetary donations to memorial
funds or fund created for the benefit of surviving family members in those
instances where a Town employee or resident of the Town dies in a tragic
accident or under circumstances where the Town Council feels that such a
monetary donation is appropriate. Said monetary donation shall be made from the
account created by the Town for donations.
(Res. passed 7-17-2006)
§ 34.09 FINANCIAL SOFTWARE SYSTEMS.
   The Town Council adopts Banyon Data Systems as its financial software
system.
(Res. passed 11-20-2000)
§ 34.10 NON-DISCRIMINATION POLICY.
   The Town prohibits discrimination in hiring, promotion, discharge, pay,
fringe benefits and other aspects of employment on the basis of race, color,
religion, sex, age, national origin or individuals with disabilities. If an
employee believes that they have been discriminated against, the employee can
immediately contact the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission,
Washington, D.C., 20507 or an EEOC field office by calling toll free 1-800-USA-
EEOC (for the hearing impaired, EEOC’s TTD number is 202-663-4399).
(Res. 98-1, passed 4-6-1998)
§ 34.11 VEHICLE INSPECTION FEE.
   (A)   Effective 9-1-1983, all motor vehicles which are presented to the Town
Police Department pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 9-17-2-12 for an
inspection shall be charged a sum as set out in the Fee Schedule in Ch. 35 of
this code of ordinances for such inspection which shall be paid immediately
following the completion of said inspection.
   (B)   Said fee as herein specified is hereby found to be reasonably related
to the cost of the service provided.
   (C)   Upon making such inspection, all individuals who present such vehicles
for inspection shall be issued a receipt for the fee collected and such
amounts, once collected, shall be deposited to the Police Continuing Education
Fund of the Town, to be used for such purposes as may be allowed by state law.
(2005 Code, § 60.11) (Ord. 1983-17, passed 12-19-1983)
§ 34.12 VARIANCE THRESHOLDS.
   (A)   (1)   I.C. 5-11-1-27(j) requires erroneous or irregular material
variances, losses, shortages or thefts of political subdivision funds or
property shall be reported immediately to the State Board of Accounts.
      (2)   State Examiner Directive 2015-6 directs each political subdivision
to determine its own policy on materiality.
      (3)   The Town Council does not condone any erroneous or irregular
material variances, losses, shortages or thefts of political subdivision funds
or property, but recognizes that relatively small items may not justify the
cost of the involvement of the State Board of Accounts.
      (4)   The Trustee has issued a directive, attached hereto as an Appendix,
stating a policy on materiality and a process for reporting material items.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Council hereby endorses the Trustee’s declaration,
attached as an Appendix and adopted by reference as if codified at length
herein, regarding a policy on materiality and a process for reporting material
items.
      (2)   The Town Council calls upon the Trustee and all Town officials,
employees and agents to enforce and comply with the policy on materiality and
process for reporting material items and to report noteworthy items to the Town
Council.
      (3)   The Town Council directs the Clerk-Treasurer to monitor, as it
deems necessary, compliance with the policy on materiality and process for
reporting material items and report noteworthy items to the full Town Council.
      (4)   The Town Council asks the Trustee to advise the Town Council of any
changes in the policy on materiality and process for reporting material items.
(Res. 2016-1, passed 2-1-2016)
§ 34.13 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   The Town of Walkerton adopts as policy the Internal Control Standards as set
forth by the Indiana State Council of Accounts Uniform Internal Control
Standards for Indiana Political Subdivisions Manual as expressly written and
published by the Indiana State Council of Accounts in September, 2015, and as
amended from time to time. In order to implement these standards, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall certify in writing that personnel as defined in statute have
received the required training. All officers, elected officials and employees
are required to comply with the policy. Employees who fail to comply with this
policy are subject to discipline, including, but not limited to, termination of
their employment.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 7-18-2016)
§ 34.14 REPRODUCING PUBLIC RECORDS AND PROVIDING CERTAIN SERVICES.
   The Police Department and other departments of the Town shall bill for the
costs for reproducing accident reports, photographs and public records, and for
providing certain services to the public. The charges for reproducing public
records and providing certain services are set out in the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances.
(Res. 2019-5, passed 8-5-2019)
CHAPTER 35: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
35.01   Fee schedule
§ 35.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Fees from Title III: Administration.
Code Section Ch. 34: General Town Policies Fee
Code Section Ch. 34: General Town Policies                  Fee
             Urban Development Areas                         
                Value of Proposed Improvements            
34.01              $0 to $25,000.99                   $50
                   $25,001 to $75,000.99              $150
                   $75,001 to $500,000.99             $300
                   $500,001 and over                  $500
34.11        Vehicle Inspection Fee                         $5
             Copying all public documents not otherwise set
             forth herein:                                  $0.10 per page
                Black and white copies                   $0.25 per page
                Color copies
             Police Department fees
                Copying an accident report               $10
                Basic background investigation           $5
                Fingerprinting:                          $15
                   Resident                           $20
                   Non-resident
                CAD/incident summary                     $10
34.14           Annual golf cart registration:           $25
                   Daytime                            $30
                   Night time
                VIN check                                $5
                Vehicle impound release form             $20
                Photo CD copy, per disc                  $10
                Production of video camera footage:
                   Body camera footage                $150 per disc
                   Patrol car camera footage          $150 per disc
                   Station video footage              $150 per disc
                   Security camera footage            $150 per disc
             Town Clerk’s Office fees
                Walkerton Lincoln Fire Territory run repo$25
 
(2005 Code, §§ 22.02, 60.11) (Ord. 1983-17, passed 12-19-1983; Res. 2019-5,
passed 8-5-2019)
   (B)   Fees from Title V: Public Works.
 
Code Section Ch. 50: General Utilities             Fee
50.01        Refund of utility billing or deposits No refund of less than $2
 
 Ch. 51: Electricity Fee
         Ch. 51: Electricity                            Fee
         Monthly rates: residential service - Rate “R”
51.01(C)    Customer charge - per month*             $18.15
            Energy charge - per kWh                  0.090787
            * Customer charge for temporary service shall be $25.00 per month
         Monthly rates: commercial service - Rate “CS 
51.02(C)    Customer charge - per month              $26.05
            Energy charge - per kWh                  0.10765
         Monthly rates: large commercial service - Rate  
51.03(C) “C1”
            Customer charge - per month              $92.35
            Energy charge - per kWh                  0.082302
         Monthly rates: power service - Rate “P”     
            Customer charge
               Secondary - per month              $249.61
51.04(C)    Customer charge
               Secondary - per kW - demand        $24.96
            Energy charge
               Secondary - per kWh                0.032883
         Monthly rates: small municipal service - Rate   
51.05(B) “MS”
            Customer charge - per month              $26.05
            Energy charge - per kWh                  0.081996
         Monthly rates: large municipal service - Rate   
51.06(B) “M1”
            Customer charge - per month              $92.35
            Energy charge - per kWh                  0.101659
         Monthly rates: municipal street and security    
         lighting - Rate “MSL”
            Size of lamp (LED)
51.07(C)       65-watt                            $5.60
               95-watt                            $5.59
               142-watt                           $5.60
            Size of lamp (high pressure sodium)
               100-watt                           $5.92
         Monthly rates: off-peak service - Rate “OP” 
            Demand payment                            
51.08(E)       First 200 kilowatts or less per mon$2,084.19
               Over 200 kilowatts per month       $10.95
            Energy payment                            
               Kilowatt-hours used per month      $0.024695
51.08(F) Monthly minimum payment                        Not less than $2,084.19
 
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 12-20-2010; Ord. 2017-8, passed 12-18-2017; Ord. 2018-8,
passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 2022-3, passed 7-11-2022)
 
Code Section Ch. 52: Garbage and Rubbish            Fee
52.05        Monthly rate for residential customers $13.00
 
(Ord. 2017-3, passed 8-7-2017)
 
Code Section Ch. 53: Water Fee
Code Section Ch. 53: Water                    Fee
             Deposits                          
53.34(A)        Homeowners                 $50 per meter
                Renters (copy of lease     $100 per meter
             required)
             Service Connections               
                                              $600 or actual cost, including
                3/4 inch meter             excavation, backfill and labor,
                                              whichever is greater
53.36(A)                                      $600 or actual cost, including
                1 inch                     excavation, backfill and labor,
                                              whichever is greater
                Larger than 1 inch         Actual expense plus 20% for
                                              overhead
             Connection capacity fees
                5/8 - 3/4" (ratio 1.0)     $747
                1" (ratio 2.5)             $1,868
53.36(J)        1 1/2" (ratio 5.7)         $4,258
                2" (ratio 10.0)            $7,470
                3" (ratio 23.0)            $17,181
                4" (ratio 40.0)            $29,880
             Main extension policy; size
             increase of more than four        
             inches in diameter
             Increase in Pipe Diameter        Reimbursement per Foot of Pipe
                                              Installed
             6                                $0.50
             8                                $1
53.48(E)     10                               $1.25
             12                               $1.50
             14                               $1.75
             16                               $2
             18                               $2.50
             20                               $2.75
             22                               $3
             24                               $3.50
53.48(K)(1)  Where main extension is required Actual cost, plus 20% overhead
                                              and non-construction costs
                                              Charge of $150 a day for each day
             Connection made without          the connection was unlawfully
53.48(K(2)   obtaining a permit               installed and be required to
                                              remove the connection until a
                                              permit is obtained
 
(2005 Code, §§ 104.106, 104.108, 104.117, 104.120) (Ord. 2002-17, passed 12-16-
2002; Ord. 2003-7, passed 8-4-2003)
Code Section Ch. 54: Sewers Fee
Code    Ch. 54: Sewers                                                               Fee
Section
54.038  Requirements; private sewage disposal system; permit and inspection fee      $25
(B)
54.039  Permits; building sewer permit; permit and inspection fee
(B)(2)     Industrial building sewer permit                                       $125
           Residential or commercial building sewer permit                        $25
54.068  General connection fee; hook-on fee                                          $750
                                                                                     $750 plus
                                                                                     a $50 per
                                                                                     unit fee
54.069  Multiple dwelling connection fee                                             beginning
                                                                                     with the
                                                                                     second
                                                                                     unit
        Commercial haulers                                                            
                                                                                     $500/
54.084  Industrial and/or commercial                                                 1,000
(A)                                                                                  gallons
        Septic tank (residential)                                                    $40/1,000
                                                                                     gallons
54.099  Control of admissible industrial wastes                                       
        Fees                                                                          
           Industries connected to sewage works after the effective date of §§
54.099  54.095 through                                                               $500
(H)     54.102 and all reapplication permits
           Initial major contributor permit industries connected to sewage works  $100
        prior to the effective date of this chapter
54.099  Surveillance survey charge                                                    
(J)        Minimum charge                                                         $100
           Maximum charge                                                         $700
        Dump fees                                                                     
                                                                                     $500/
54.099     Industrial and/or commercial                                           1,000
(M)(2 )                                                                              gallons
           Septic tank (residential)                                              $3/1,000
                                                                                     gallons
 
(2005 Code, §§ 100.53, 100.54, 102.04, 102.05, 102.21, 102.22)
 
Code Section Ch. 55: Net Energy Metering                Fee
             Net metering tariff                         
55.07           Application for interconnection servi$100
                Customer charge                      $50 per meter per month
 
(Ord. 2015-19, passed 11-16-2015)
 
Code Section Ch. 93: Alarm Systems                                      Fee
             Fees; who assessed                                          
                Three false alarms in any calendar year              No fee
93.02           Fourth false alarm in any calendar year              $75
                Fifth false alarm in any calendar year               $75
                Six or every subsequent false alarms in any calendar $100
             year
 
(2005 Code, § 50.02) (Ord. 1998-9, passed 9-8-1998)
   (D)   Title XI: Business Regulations.
 
Code    Ch. 115: Taxicabs                                                 Fee
Section
        Fees                                                               
115.22     Annual license fee                                          $5
           Additional annual fee for each taxicab licensed through the $1
        service
 
(2005 Code, § 44.05)
 
Code Section Ch. 116: Solicitors; Itinerant Merchants and Fee
             Peddlers
116.05       Charitable solicitor application fee         $25
116.32(A)(1) Itinerant merchants, solicitors and peddlers $25
             application filing fee
116.32(B)    Itinerant merchants, solicitors and peddlers $100 (per year)
             license fee
 
(2005 Code, §§ 41.09, 43.05) (Ord. 2006-5, passed 6-19-2006)
   (E)   Title XV: Land Usage.
Code Section Ch. 151: Building Regulations; Construction Fee
Code    Ch. 151: Building Regulations; Construction                                     Fee
Section
151.09  Building Permit Fees                                                             
(D)(1)
       New Construction and Additions                                                   
       Type of Construction                                                            Permit Fee
                                                                                        $120 + $0.05
          1- or 2-family dwelling detached                                          per sq. ft.
                                                                                        over 2,000
                                                                                        sq. ft.
          Accessory building (residential use)                                      $40
          Apartments, hotels, motels-each unit                                      $80
                                                                                        $160 + $0.05
          Business, commercial, industrial, public                                  per sq. over
                                                                                        2,000 sq.
                                                                                        ft.
          Educational, institutional, church                                        $120 + $0.05
                                                                                        per sq. ft.
          Mobile home, or temporary structures                                      $40
151.09  Electrical permit fees                                                           
(D)(2)
           Electrical permits issued and obtained prior to commencement of the work for
       which such permit is required, the following fees shall be levied, with a        
        minimum permit fee being $20
          Additional final inspection, each                                         $50
          Circuits, each (new or replaced)                                          $3
          Horsepower (machinery)                                                     
             First hp                                                            $7
             Each additional hp                                                  $0.25
          Reset and reconnect, each                                                 $15
          Reinspection fee, each                                                    $25
          Switchboards and panel boards each (new and replaced)                      
             60 amp                                                              $5
             100 amp                                                             $7
             200 amp                                                             $9
             400 amp                                                             $12
             600 amp                                                             $15
              Over 600 to 2,000 amp                                               $20
             Over 2,000 amp                                                      $25
          Temporary services (all amperage)                                         $7
        Plumbing permits                                                                 
           For plumbing permits issued and obtained prior, to commencement of the work
        for which such permit is required, the following fees shall be levied, with a    
        minimum permit fee being $20
           Additional final inspection, each                                         $50
           Backflow protection, each                                                 $5
           Building sewer, each                                                       
              Under 100 ft.                                                       $10
              100 ft. or over                                                     $20
           Building water, each:                                                      
              Under 100 ft.                                                       $10
              100 ft. or over                                                     $20
           Drain within building for rain water systems, each                        $4
           Drywells, each                                                            $10
           Each gas piping system of 1 to 4 outlets                                  $3
           Each gas piping system of 5 or more, per outlet                           $1
151.09     Each plumbing fixture or trap or set of fixtures on one trap, including   $4
(D)(3)  water and drainage piping therefor
           Fire protection sprinkler system:                                          
              Up to 30 heads                                                      $20
              Plus each additional 10 heads thereafter up to 500                  $5
              Plus each additional 50 heads over 500                              $5
           Gas reconnection, each                                                    $15
           Gas tanks and pumps                                                       $10
           Industrial waste pretreatment interception, including its trap and vent,  $7
        excepting kitchen-type grease interceptors functioning as fixture traps, each
           Installation, alteration or repair of water piping and/or water treating  $5
        equipment
           Lawn sprinkler system on any one meter, including backflow protection     $5
        devices thereof each
           Reinspection, each                                                        $25
           Repair or alteration of drainage or vent piping                           $5
           Trailer park sewer, each                                                  $9
           Water heater and/or vent, each                                            $6
           Water softener, each                                                      $6
        Heating and air conditioning permits                                             
           For heating and air conditioning permits issued and obtained prior to
        commencement of that work for which such permit is required, the following fees
        shall be levied for, with a minimum permit fee being $20. When the total         
        capacity of any system in any single installation is provided by more than one
        unit, the sum of the capacities of each, unit and the total number of such
        units shall determine the fee
           Air conditioning:                                                          
              Central, electric:                                                   
                 Less than 5 tons:                                              
                    First unit                                              $15
                    Second unit                                             $10
                 5 to 10 tons                                                  $25
                 Over 10 tons                                                  $40
           Air handlers                                                               
              400 CFM to 2,500 CFM                                                $25
              Over 2,500 CFM                                                      $60
           Boilers, steam or hot water                                                
              Up to 300,000 BTUs                                                   
                 First unit                                                    $20
                 Each additional unit                                          $15
              300,000 BTU or more                                                 $50
           Duct and register, change fee                                             $15
           Each additional final inspection                                          $50
           Each reinspection fee                                                     $25
           Electric furnaces (air handling)                                           
              Less than 100 kw input:                                              
                 First unit                                                    $15
                 Second unit                                                   $10
              100 kw input or more                                                $25
           EMI air blowers                                                           $15
           Gas reconnection, each                                                    $15
           Gas piping (distribution of piping to equipment) to be included on permit  
        application:
              Each gas piping system of 1 to 4 outlets                            $3
              Each gas piping system 5 or more, per outlet                        $1
           Heat pumps                                                                 
              1,000 to 60,000 BTUs input                                           
                 First unit                                                    $15
151.09           Each additional unit                                          $10
(D)(4)        60,000 to 300,000 BTUs input                                         
                 Up to 7-1/2 tons, each                                        $40
                 7-1/2 tons or more, each                                      $75
              Earth, coupled water source                                         $50
           Incinerators                                                               
              5 cubic fee or less                                                 $10
              More than 5 cubic feet                                              $10
              (Plus $1 or each foot in excess of 5 cubic feet)                     
              Maximum fee                                                         $75
           Oil and gas conversions                                                    
              Up to 300,000 BTU input:                                             
                 First unit                                                    $15
                 Second unit                                                   $10
              300,000 BTU input or more                                           $25
           Refrigeration and engine-drive, gas-fired or oil-fired cooling equipment   
              1 to 5 horsepower, each                                             $15
              6 to 10 horsepower, each                                            $25
              More than 10 horsepower, each                                       $40
           Rooftop combination furnace and air conditioning units                     
              Up to 300,000 BTUs, each:                                            
              Up to 7-1/2 tons                                                    $40
              7-1/2 ton or more                                                   $60
           Space heaters, each 30,000 BTU input or more                              $15
           Through-wall combination air conditioning/heating, VAV boxes with coil     
              First unit                                                          $10
              Each additional unit                                                $5
              Solar heat units                                                    $50
           Ventilating and exhaust systems, unit ventilators                          
              Less than 500 CFM capacity                                          $5
              500 to 1,500 CFM capacity                                           $10
              (Plus, $1 for each 500 CFM or fraction thereof in excess of 1,500 CF 
           Ventilating commercial hoods:                                              
              500 CFM to 1,500 CFM capacity                                       $25
              Over 1,500 CFM capacity                                             $50
           Warm-air furnaces, unit heaters, cabinet heaters, radiant tube heaters     
              Up to 300,000 BTU input:                                             
                 First unit                                                    $15
                 Second unit                                                   $10
              300,000 BTU input or more                                           $25
           Water chillers                                                            $75
           Woodburning stoves, per flue (including chimney and chimney connector)    $5
        Remolding, alterations and repairs over $1,000 and pool installations            
        Estimated Construction Costs                                                    Permit Fees
           $1,000 - $2,000                                                           $40
                                                                                        $40 + $2 per
                                                                                        $1,000 of
                                                                                        estimated
           $2,001 and up to $102,000                                                 construction
                                                                                        cost
151.09                                                                                  thereafter
(D)(5)                                                                                  up to
                                                                                        $102,000
                                                                                        $240 + $0.75
                                                                                        per $1,000
                                                                                        of estimated
           $102,001 and up                                                           cost
                                                                                        thereafter
                                                                                        in excess of
                                                                                        $102,000
        Miscellaneous                                                                    
           Each additional re-inspection                                             $40
151.09     Moving permits                                                            $80
(D)(6)     Sign permits                                                              $40
           Wrecking and demolition permits                                            
              Commercial                                                          $40
              Residential                                                         $20
 
(2005 Code, § 120.9) (Ord. 1997-4, passed 10-20-1997; Ord. 2007-1, passed - -
2007)
 
Code    Ch. 153: Streets and Sidewalks                                         Fee
Section
        Limitations                                                             
                                                                               Shall
153.02     Cost of any particular new residential or new commercial street, not
        development or improvement                                             exceed
                                                                               $20,000
153.04  Method of participation                                                 
                                                                               Cannot
          Share of the cost to be undertaken by the Town                   exceed
                                                                               $2,000
153.21  Permit fee                                                             $50
153.40  Laying, relaying and repair; deposit                                   $10
(B)
 
(2005 Code, §§ 90.02, 90.04, 91.22, 92.07) (Ord. 2001-07, passed 6-4-2001)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITIES
      
51.   ELECTRICITY
      
52.   GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
      
53.   WATER
      
54.   WASTEWATER
      
55.   NET ENERGY METERING
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL UTILITIES
Section
   
50.01   Write-off procedures for uncollectible accounts; refund
§ 50.01 WRITE-OFF PROCEDURES FOR UNCOLLECTIBLE ACCOUNTS; REFUNDS.
   (A)   Once the Town Council approves the uncollectible list, the utility
billing clerk will make the appropriate entries to write-off the uncollectible
receivable by using the direct write off method. The direct write-off method
results in the write-off of a utility bill directly to accounts receivable when
deemed to be uncollectible.
   (B)   Accounts that have had a write-off will be flagged as having had an
uncollectible balance in the past. Any future transactions for those account
holders will be denied until the uncollectible balance is paid in full.
However, this provision will not apply if the debt is fully discharged in
bankruptcy.
   (C)   No refund of utility billing or deposits will be issued for less than
a sum as set out in the Fee Schedule in Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances. The
utility will post this as miscellaneous revenue.
(Res. 2012-7, passed 4-2-2012)
CHAPTER 51: ELECTRICITY
Section
Rates and Charges
   
51.01   Residential service - Rate “R”
   
51.02   Commercial service - Rate “CS”
   
51.03   Large commercial service - Rate “C1”
   
51.04   Power service - Rate “P”
   
51.05   Small municipal service - Rate “MS”
   
51.06   Large municipal service - Rate “M1”
   
51.07   Municipal street and security lighting - Rate “MSL”
   
51.08   Off peak service - Rate “OP” metal melting service
   
51.09   Economic Development Rider
   
51.10   Monthly charge for not participating in AMI program
Interconnection Standards
   
51.25   Findings and determinations
   
51.26   Application
   
51.27   Standards
 
   
51.28   Penalty
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.01 RESIDENTIAL SERVICE - RATE “R”.
   (A)   To whom available. Available to residential and farm customers,
including churches and fraternal organizations, for general service, who
regularly use the Utility’s service throughout the year, and who are located on
the Utility’s distribution lines suitable and adequate for supplying the
service requested.
   (B)   Character of service. Alternating current, 60 hertz, single-phase, at
a voltage of approximately 120 volts two-wire, or 120/240 volts three-wire.
   (C)   Monthly rates: residential service - Rate “R”. The rates are listed in
the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Minimum payment. The minimum payment for service shall be the customer
charge.
   (E)   Deferred payment. All bills on the rates listed in the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 shall be rendered and due monthly. If not paid by the fifteenth day
following the date of billing, there shall be added 5% to the total amount of
the bill. Remittances sent by mail on or previous to the fifteenth day, as
evidenced by the U.S. Post Office mark on the envelope in which they are
received, will be accepted as a tender of payment within the time limit. When
the fifteenth day falls on Saturday, Sunday or any other legal holiday, the
first business day thereafter shall be considered as being within the time
limit.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 12-20-2010; Ord. 2018-8, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 2022-3,
passed 7-11-2022)
§ 51.02 COMMERCIAL SERVICE - RATE “CS”.
   (A)   To whom available. Available to small commercial and industrial
customers, including schools, whose monthly use has not exceeded a 750 kilowatt
hours average for the preceding 12-month period, and who regularly use the
Utility’s service throughout the year, and who are located on the Utility’s
distribution lines suitable and adequate for supplying the service requested.
   (B)   Character of service. Alternating current, 60 hertz, three-phase at
voltages of approximately 480, 240 and 208 volts, or single-phase service at a
voltage of approximately 120/240 volts. The Utility will supply service from
its electrical supply lines at only such frequency, phase, regulation and
primary voltage as it has available in the location where service is required,
and, if transformation of voltage is desired by the customer, will transform
its primary voltage to one standard secondary voltage as herein above set
forth. Any applicant requiring service differing from that to be supplied by
the Utility as herein provided shall provide proper converting, transforming,
regulating or other equipment upon his or her own premises and at his or her
own expense.
   (C)   Monthly rates: commercial service - Rate “CS”. The rates are listed in
the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Minimum payment. The minimum payment for service shall be the customer
charge.
   (E)   Deferred payment. All bills on the rates listed in the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 shall be rendered and due monthly. If not paid by the fifteenth day
following the date of billing, there shall be added 5% to the total amount of
the bill. Remittances sent by mail on or previous to the fifteenth day, as
evidenced by the U.S. Post Office mark on the envelope in which they are
received, will be accepted as a tender of payment within the time limit. When
the fifteenth day falls on Saturday, Sunday or any other legal holiday, the
first business day thereafter shall be considered as being within the limit.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 12-20-2010; Ord. 2018-8, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 2022-3,
passed 7-11-2022)
§ 51.03 LARGE COMMERCIAL SERVICE - RATE “C1”.
   (A)   To whom available. Available to commercial and industrial customers,
including schools, whose monthly use has exceeded a 750 kilowatt hours average
for the preceding 12-month period, who regularly use the Utility’s service
throughout the year, and who are located on the Utility’s distribution lines
suitable and adequate for supplying the service requested.
   (B)   Character of service. Alternating current, 60 hertz, three-phase at
voltages of approximately 480, 240 and 208 volts, or single-phase service at a
voltage of approximately 120/240 volts. The Utility will supply service from
its electrical supply lines at only such frequency, phase, regulation and
primary voltage as it has available in the location where service is required,
and, if transformation of voltage is desired by the customer, will transform
its primary voltage to one standard secondary voltage as herein above set
forth. Any applicant requiring service differing from that to be supplied by
the Utility as herein provided shall provide proper converting, transforming,
regulating or other equipment upon his or her own premises and at his or her
own expense.
   (C)   Monthly rates: large commercial service - Rate “C1”. The rates are
listed in the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Minimum payment. The minimum payment for service shall be the customer
charge.
   (E)   Deferred payment. All bills on the rates listed in the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 shall be rendered and due monthly. If not paid by the fifteenth day
following the date of billing, there shall be added 5% to the total amount of
the bill. Remittances sent by mail on or previous to the fifteenth day, as
evidenced by the U.S. Post Office mark on the envelope in which they are
received, will be accepted as a tender of payment within the time limit. When
the fifteenth day falls on Saturday, Sunday or any other legal holiday, the
first business day thereafter shall be considered as being within the limit.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 12-20-2010; Ord. 2018-8, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 2022-3,
passed 7-11-2022)
§ 51.04 POWER SERVICE - RATE “P”.
   (A)   To whom available.
      (1)   Available to power customers for light and/or power service who are
located on the Utility’s electrical supply line suitable and adequate for
supplying the service requested.
      (2)   This rate is applicable to any and all industrial and commercial
customers whose light and/or power service requirements are such as to require
a connected transformer capacity in excess of 150 kVa.
   (B)   Character of service.
      (1)   Only alternating current, 60 hertz, three-phase service at any
voltage available in the applicant’s area. (Only one voltage will be supplied.)
      (2)   The Utility will supply service from its electrical supply line at
only such frequency, phase, regulation and voltage as it has available in the
location where service is required; and will transform its primary voltage to
one standard secondary voltage. Any applicant requiring service differing from
that to be supplied as herein provided shall provide proper converting,
transforming, regulating or other equipment upon his or her own premises and at
his or her own expense. Primary power service, as described through the
customer-provided equipment, will be subject to a 2% energy and demand charge
discount.
   (C)   Monthly rates: power service - Rate “P”. The rates are listed in the
Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Minimum payment. The monthly minimum charge shall be the greater of:
      (1)   The sum of customer charge, capacity charge and energy charge for
the month; and
      (2)   The customer charge, plus 60% of the highest billing demand for the
preceding 12 months times the demand charge.
   (E)   Contract for service. As previously indicated, a condition preceding
the Utility supplying service under this schedule, the customer shall enter
into a written contract with the Utility for a suitable initial contract
period.
   (F)   Deferred payment. All bills on the rates listed in the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 shall be rendered and due monthly. If not paid by the fifteenth day
following the date of billing, there shall be added 5% to the total amount of
the bill. Remittances sent by mail on or previous to the fifteenth day, as
evidenced by the U.S. Post Office mark on the envelope in which they are
received, will be accepted as a tender of payment within the time limit. When
the fifteenth day falls on Saturday, Sunday or any other legal holiday, the
first business day thereafter shall be considered as being within the limit.
   (G)   Measurement of maximum load and energy. Maximum load shall be measured
by suitable recording instruments provided by Utility, and in any month the
maximum load expressed in kilovolt- amperes shall be the average number of
kilowatts in the recorded 30-minute interval in such month, divided by the
average power factor (expressed as a decimal) calculated for the month. In the
event suitable equipment has been installed but is not functioning properly,
the maximum load shall be determined as follows:
      (1)   The maximum load shall be determined from the readings or
indications of suitable demand measuring instruments; provided, however, that,
if welding machines or other apparatus where the use of electricity is
intermittent or subject to violent fluctuations constitute a part of the entire
load, the measurements shall be increased by the connected load in machines or
other such apparatus, in the sum taken as the maximum load. The Utility further
reserves the right to require the customer to provide at its own expense,
suitable apparatus to reasonably limit such intermittent fluctuations where, in
the Utility’s judgment, such apparatus is necessary to prevent undue
interference with the service of the Utility; and
      (2)   The maximum load shall be taken as the highest average load in
kilowatts occurring during any 30 consecutive minutes of the month; provided,
however, that, if such load shall be less than 50% of the maximum momentary
demand in kilowatts, then the maximum load shall be taken at 50% of such
maximum momentary demand; provided further, that the maximum load shall not be
less than 80% of the product of the actual voltage multiplied by the maximum
amperes and any phase multiplied by 1.73.
   (H)   Metering. The Utility reserves the right to meter at primary or
secondary voltage.
   (I)   Power factor. The customer agrees to maintain unity power factor as
nearly as practicable. The Utility reserves the right to measure such power
factor at any time. Should such measurements indicate that the maximum lagging
power factor for the billing period is less than 95%, the demand for billing
purposes shall be the demand as indicated or recorded by the demand meter
multiplied by 95% and divided by the measured average power factor in decimal.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 12-20-2010; Ord. 2018-8, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 2022-3,
passed 7-11-2022)
§ 51.05 SMALL MUNICIPAL SERVICE - RATE “MS”.
   (A)   To whom available.
      (1)   Available to the Town and the various departments of the Town for
municipal service.
      (2)   The Utility shall bill any department of the Town whose power
requirements do not exceed 750 kilowatt hours average for the preceding 12-
month period on this schedule.
   (B)   Monthly rates: small municipal service - Rate “MS”. The rates are
listed in the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Minimum payment. The minimum payment for service shall be the customer
charge.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 12-20-2010; Ord. 2018-8, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 2022-3,
passed 7-11-2022)
§ 51.06 LARGE MUNICIPAL SERVICE - RATE “M1”.
   (A)   To whom available.
      (1)   Available to the Town and the various departments of the Town for
municipal service.
      (2)   The Utility shall bill any department of the Town, whose power
requirements exceed 750 kilowatt hours average for the preceding 12-month
period on this schedule.
   (B)   Monthly rates: large municipal service - Rate “M1”. The rates are
listed in the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Minimum payment. The minimum payment for service shall be the customer
charge.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 12-20-2010; Ord. 2018-8, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 2022-3,
passed 7-11-2022)
§ 51.07 MUNICIPAL STREET AND SECURITY LIGHTING - RATE “MSL”.
   (A)   To whom available. Available for standard overhead municipal street
and security lighting services.
   (B)   Character of service. Alternating current, single-phase, 60 hertz, at
a voltage of approximately 120 volts two-wire, or 120/240 volts three-wire.
   (C)   Monthly rates: municipal street and security lighting - Rate “MSL”.
The rates are listed in the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Minimum payment. The minimum payment for service shall be the customer
charge.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 12-20-2010; Ord. 2018-8, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 2022-3,
passed 7-11-2022)
§ 51.08 OFF PEAK SERVICE - RATE “OP” METAL MELTING SERVICE.
   (A)   To whom available.
      (1)   This is an experimental rate for customers who have substantial
requirements for electric metal melting and/or holding. The rate is available
to industrial customers with electric metal melting and/or holding facilities
located adjacent to existing electric facilities adequate to meet the
customer’s requirements.
      (2)   A customer requesting service hereunder is required to contract for
a specific amount of electrical capacity, which shall be not less than 200
kilowatts. The Utility shall not be obligated to supply capacity in excess of
that specified in the contract, or which exceeds the existing installed
capacity.
      (3)   Customers with small power production facilities and/or peak
shaving generation equipment are prohibited from taking service under this rate
schedule; except when, by mutual agreement, such facilities may be used as set
forth in the contract (see Contract 1, Paragraph 3).
   (B)   Character of service.
      (1)   The Utility will supply service to the extent of the capacity
available from its electric supply lines at such frequency, phase and
regulation, and one standard secondary voltage of 480 volts or above, or the
available primary or transmission voltage at the location where service is
required.
      (2)   The customer will supply, in accordance with plans and
specifications furnished by the Utility, and at a mutually agreed-upon location
on the customer’s property, suitable buildings, structures, and foundations to
house and support any protecting, switching, relaying or metering equipment
that may be supplied by the Utility.
   (C)   Hours of service.
      (1)   Off-peak hours of service are those not included in the on-peak
hours, and shall be expressed in Eastern Standard Time (EST), and 24 hours on
Saturday, Sunday, New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day. The Utility may, by written notice, at its
option, make available from time to time additional off-peak hours of service,
which would immediately follow and/or precede those enumerated above if
conditions on the Utility’s system so warrant. The additional off-peak hours of
service may be reduced or withdrawn in their entirety upon notice by the
Utility, to be given not less than four hours before the start of any off-peak
period.
      (2)   On-peak hours of service are to be no less than six consecutive
hours, varying to cover the Utility’s system demand peaks. For this
experimental period they shall be as follows, unless modified by mutual
agreement, and indicated by daily and monthly data on the Utility’s system
demand:
         (a)   August: 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.;
         (b)   September: 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.;
         (c)   October: 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.; and
         (d)   November: 8:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.
   (D)   Rate. The electric service and energy supplied hereunder shall be
billed under a two-part rate consisting of a demand payment, plus an energy
payment, subject to the adjustments herein provided.
   (E)   Monthly rates: off-peak service - Rate “OP”. The rates are listed in
the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances.
   (F)   Monthly minimum payment. The customer’s monthly minimum payment under
this rate shall be the sum of the demand payment plus the energy payment,
subject to the adjustments herein provided; however, in no case shall the
monthly demand payment be less than the sum listed in the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances.
   (G)   Notification of curtailment. The Utility shall provide 24 hours’
advance notice before curtailing or interrupting service during off-peak
periods.
   (H)   Deferred payment. All bills under this schedule shall be rendered and
due monthly. If not paid by the fifteenth day following the date of the
billing, there shall be added 5% to the total amount of the bill. Remittances
sent by mail on or previous to the fifteenth day, as evidenced by the U.S. Post
Office mark on the envelope in which they are received, will be accepted as a
tender of payment within the time limit. When the fifteenth day falls on
Saturday, Sunday or any other legal holiday, the first business day thereafter
shall be considered as being within the time limit.
   (I)   Determination of amount of electric service supplied. The electric
service to be supplied under this rate shall be measured as to maximum demand,
energy consumption and power factor by suitable meters to be installed by the
Utility.
   (J)   Determination of maximum demand. The customer’s maximum demand in any
month shall be determined by suitable maximum demand instruments. The
customer’s demand of electric energy supplied shall be determined for each
half-hour interval of the month. The phrase HALF-HOUR INTERVAL shall mean a 30-
minute period beginning or ending on a numbered clock hour as indicated by the
clock controlling the metering equipment.
   (K)   Determination of billing demand. The billing demand for the month
shall be the greatest of the following demands:
      (1)   The maximum metered on-peak half-hour demand, adjusted for power
factor;
      (2)   Forty percent of the maximum metered off-peak half-hour demand,
adjusted for power factor; and
      (3)   Two hundred kilowatts.
   (L)   Determination of peak power factor. The power factors shall be
calculated, using the maximum on-peak demand and the maximum off-peak demand,
each expressed in kilowatts, and the lagging reactive kilovolt-amperes supplied
during the same half-hour interval in which said demands occur.
   (M)   Power factor correction.
      (1)   For power factors of less than 95% lagging, the applicable demand
shall be corrected by multiplying said demand by 0.95 and dividing by the power
factor for the same half-hour interval in which said demand occurs.
      (2)   If a power factor is equal to or in excess of 95% lagging, then no
power factor correction is made.
   (N)   General terms and conditions of service.
      (1)   Contract.
         (a)   Contracts under this rate schedule shall be made for a term to
be agreed upon between the Utility and the customer considering the amount of
the electrical load, the location of the electrical load and the facilities to
be furnished by the Utility to serve the electrical load.
         (b)   In such contract, it shall be proper to include such provisions,
if any, as may be agreed upon between the Utility and the customer with respect
to special terms and conditions under which service is to be furnished
hereunder, including, but not limited to, electrical capacity to be supplied,
voltage to be supplied and facilities to be provided by each party.
         (c)   This section allows the special agreements and special
provisions requested by customers. This would be an addendum to the basic rate.
      (2)   Metering.
         (a)   The electric energy to be used under the terms of this schedule
shall be measured at the delivery voltage as to maximum demand, use of electric
energy and power factor determination through meters to be located in a
building or buildings provided by the Utility, and furnished by the customer on
the customer’s premises. The Utility shall own, furnish and install the
necessary metering equipment. All bills, other than bills for the minimum
payments, shall be calculated upon the registration of these meters. The meters
installed on the customer’s premises by the Utility under this schedule shall
remain the property of the Utility and shall be safely kept and protected by
the customer.
         (b)   The Utility shall, at all times, have the right to inspect and
test meters, and if found to be defective or inaccurate, to repair or replace
them at its option; provided that notice shall be given to the customer before
testing the meters so that the customer may have its representative present, if
desired. Any meter tested and found to be not more than 1% inaccurate shall be
considered accurate and correct, but shall be adjusted to be as nearly correct
as possible. If, as a result of any test hereunder, any meter shall be found
inaccurate or incorrect in excess of 1%, such meter shall be adjusted to be as
nearly correct as possible, and the reading of such meter previously taken
shall be corrected to the percentage of inaccuracy so found, but no such
correction shall, without the consent of both parties, extend back beyond one
half of the period between the date of such test and the date of the last prior
test showing the meter to be within 1% accurate, nor more than 45 days after
discovery of such defect or inaccuracy. During the time there is no meter in
service or the meter in service is not registering, it shall be assumed that
the energy consumed is the same as the daily average for the most recent period
of similar operation with respect to usage of energy proceeding the time the
meter is out of service. The customer shall also have the right to require a
test of meters at reasonable intervals upon giving notice of its desire to have
such test made by the Utility.
         (c)   The properly authorized agents of the Utility, displaying the
official badge of the Town, shall at all hours have access to said premises for
the purpose of examining, repairing or removing its meters and other property,
and delivering notices hereunder, and no one who is not an agent of the Utility
shall be permitted to handle, remove or tamper with the same, except in an
emergency.
      (3)   Additional load. The customer shall notify the Utility in writing
of any substantial additions to or alternations in the equipment to be supplied
with electric energy by the Utility, and such additions or alterations shall
not be connected to the system supplied with electric energy by the Utility
until such notice shall have been given by the customer and received by the
Utility.
      (4)   Discontinuance of service. The Utility shall have the right to cut
off and discontinue the supply of electric energy, and remove its metering
equipment and other property, when any bill is in arrears, overdue or in
default, or upon violation by the customer of any of the terms or conditions of
the contract.
      (5)   Curtailments for emergency repairs or line extensions. The Utility
reserves the right to interrupt service at any time when necessary to make
emergency repairs. For the purpose of making other than emergency repairs or
extensions to the lines, the Utility reserves the right to cut off the
customer’s supply of electric energy for eight consecutive hours on any Sunday,
or such other day or days as may be agreed to by the customer and the Utility;
provided, 48 hours’ notification previous to the hour of cut-off is given the
customer of such intention.
      (6)   Rules and regulations. The Utility’s general rules and regulations
applicable to electric service are applicable to service hereunder.
      (7)   Force majeure.
         (a)   The Utility will use reasonable diligence to provide a regular
and uninterrupted supply of electric energy, but does not guarantee such
supply. Neither the Utility nor the customer shall be liable to the other for
damages caused by the interruption, suspension, reduction or curtailment of the
delivery of electric energy hereunder due to, occasioned by or in consequence
of any of the following causes or contingencies, viz: acts of God, the
elements, storms, hurricanes, tornadoes, cyclones, sleet, floods, lightning,
earthquakes, landslides, washouts or other revulsions of nature, epidemics,
accidental fires, collisions, explosions, strikes, lockouts, differences with
workers or other industrial disturbances, vandalism, sabotage, riots, inability
to secure materials, supplies or equipment, breakage or failure of machinery,
generating equipment, electric lines or equipment, wars, insurrections,
blockades, acts of the public enemy, arrests and restraints of rules and
people, civil disturbances, federal, state or other governmental laws, orders,
decrees, restraints or regulations, and any other causes or contingencies not
within the control of the party whose performance is interfered with, whether
of the kind herein enumerated or otherwise.
         (b)   The Utility reserves the right to limit or interrupt service to
the customer when a shortage of capacity and energy exists.
         (c)   Settlement and lockouts shall be wholly within the discretion of
the party having the difficulty. Such causes of contingencies affecting
performance shall not relieve the Utility or customer of liability in the event
of its concurring negligence in the event of failure of either to use due
diligence to remedy the situation and remove the cause in an adequate manner
and with all reasonable dispatch, nor shall such causes or contingencies or any
thereof relieve either from its obligation to pay amounts due hereunder or to
pay demand charges or minimum bills accruing during such interruption or
suspension of service.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 12-20-2010; Ord. 2018-8, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 2022-3,
passed 7-11-2022)
§ 51.09 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT RIDER.
   (A)   Availability. This rider is available to a qualifying customer (as
defined herein) to encourage large users to expand or create new operations
within the utility's service territory.
   (B)   Qualifications.
      (1)   A "Qualifying Customer" is a new or existing non-residential
customer in the utility's service territory that is establishing new operations
or expanding existing operations such that the new or expanded operations will
result in new or additional demand of at least one MW (1000 kW) at one delivery
point (the "Qualifying Demand") and the new or expanded operations has involved
a capital investment of at least $1,000,000 within the utility's service
territory.
      (2)   For a qualifying customer that is expanding operations, qualifying
demand is measured from the average monthly peak demand for the 12 months
immediately preceding the effective date of the service application. For a
qualifying customer that is establishing new operations, qualifying demand is
measured from zero.
      (3)   A qualifying customer is not a customer:
         (a)   With "new" demand that results from a change in ownership of an
existing establishment without qualifying new load;
         (b)   Renewing service following interruptions such as equipment
failure, temporary plant shutdown, strike, economic conditions, or natural
disaster; or
         (c)   That has shifted its load from one operation or customer to
another within the utility's service territory. The utility may determine
exclusively, without recourse by the customer, whether an event has occurred
that would prevent a customer from being a qualified customer.
   (C)   Rate incentive.
      (1)   Beginning with the effective date indicated in the service
application submitted by the qualifying customer, utility will receive a credit
on its wholesale bill for the qualifying new load. The incentive amount
received by utility from the Indiana Municipal Power Agency for such load will
be passed in full to qualifying customers. For reference purposes, the discount
to the qualifying customer's wholesale cost for qualifying new load will be
calculated according to the following schedule:
            (a)   Months 1 - 2         20%
            (b)   Months 13 - 24      15%
            (c)   Months 25 - 36      10%
            (d)   Months 37 - 48      10%
            (e)   Months 49 - 60      5%
      (2)   The qualifying customer must meet the minimum qualifying demand
during each month of the incentive period (i.e., months 1 through 60, as
designated above). Failure to meet the minimum qualifying demand in a
particular month will result in 0% reduction for that month.
   (D)   Terms and conditions.  
      (1)   The qualifying customer must submit a service application to the
utility specifying:
         (a)   A description of the amount and nature of the new load;
         (b)   The basis on which the qualifying customer meets the
requirements of this rider; and
         (c)   The qualifying customer's desired effective date.
      (2)   This rider will terminate on the same date that IMPA's economic
development rider terminates, except that any qualifying customer receiving the
rate incentive at the time of the rider's termination may continue receiving
the incentive for the remainder of the applicable incentive period (as long as
it continues to meet the rider's requirements).
   (E)   Applicable rate schedules. This rider is available to the following
rate schedules:
      (1)   Large Commercial Service - Rate "C1"; and
      (2)   Power Service - Rate "P."
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 51.10 MONTHLY CHARGE FOR NOT PARTICIPATING IN AMI PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Town has partnered with Indiana Municipal Power Agency (IMPA) to
upgrade system electrical meters to convert the current system to an advanced
metering infrastructure (AMI) program.
   (B)   The major benefits of AMI include, but are not limited to: reduced
costs for metering and billing, quicker outage notifications, lower outage
costs and response time, remote service connect and disconnect capabilities,
and reliable and real-time information for customer electrical consumption and
utilization trends.
   (C)   Most other IMPA communities and major utilities across the United
States and Canada have or are in the process of implementing similar programs.
   (D)   It is possible, though not preferable, for the Town to allow a
homeowner to maintain an existing meter requiring a monthly in-person meter
read, thus causing the Town to incur additional expenses.
   (E)   As a result of these findings, the Town Council authorizes the Town to
charge those customers allowed to utilize existing meters a flat fee of $25 per
meter, per month for the expense of in-person and manual-input meter readings.
(Res. 2022-2, passed 2-28-2022)
INTERCONNECTION STANDARDS
§ 51.25 FINDINGS AND DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   The Town owns and operates its own electric utility (“utility”) under
the supervision and control of the Board under I.C. 8-1.5-3 et seq.
   (B)   The Town desires to encourage the development of renewable energy
resources, such as solar or wind, and promote the wise use of Indiana’s natural
energy resources to meet growing electricity demand. It would, therefore, be
beneficial to allow customers of the utility to own or lease renewable electric
generation systems to help offset their electric load.
   (C)   The safety of utility workers and the general public requires
inspection and testing of equipment arranged for the production of electricity
from solar, wind, biomass, geothermal or hydroelectric facilities (“renewable
generation facilities”) that are owned and operated by residential, commercial
or industrial customers of the utility (“customer(s)”) and connected to the
utility's electrical grid.
   (D)   As a result of these findings, the Council has determined that:
      (1)   It is necessary to establish standards for the interconnection of
such renewable generation facilities to the utility’s grid; and
      (2)   Energy produced by customers owning or leasing renewable generation
facilities in excess of the customer’s electric load at that meter (“excess
energy”) shall be purchased by the Indiana Municipal Power Agency (“IMPA”)
subject to a power purchase agreement between IMPA and the customer.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
§ 51.26 APPLICATION.
   A customer desiring to interconnect renewable generation facilities with the
utility's grid, for the purpose of offsetting the customer's electric load,
shall complete an interconnection application and submit it to the utility for
review. After receiving the application, the utility shall conduct such further
inspection of the renewable generation facilities as it deems necessary, and
shall approve or deny the application. If the application is denied, the
utility shall provide a written response to the customer explaining why the
application was denied. The utility is hereby authorized to charge a reasonable
application fee to offset the costs of reviewing the application, inspecting
the renewable generation facilities, and otherwise ensuring compliance with
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
§ 51.27 STANDARDS.
   (A)   If the interconnection application is approved, then the customer
agrees that no changes shall be made to the configuration of the renewable
generation facilities, as that configuration is described in the application,
and no relay or other control or protection settings specified in the
application shall be set, reset, adjusted or tampered with, except to the
extent necessary to verify that the renewable generation facilities comply with
the utility’s approved settings.
   (B)   In addition to such other requirements as the utility deems necessary,
any renewable generation facility allowed to interconnect to the utility’s grid
must comply with:
      (1)   The National Electrical Code and the National Electrical Safety
Code, as each may be revised from time to time;
      (2)   The utility’s rules and regulations and the its general terms and
conditions for electric service, each as contained in the utility’s electric
tariff, and each as may be revised from time to time; and
      (3)   All other applicable local, state and federal codes and laws, as
the same may be in effect from time to time.
   (C)   For any approved renewable generation facilities interconnected to the
utility’s grid, the customer shall install, operate and maintain, at the
customer’s sole cost and expense, the renewable generation facilities in
accordance with the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers’
applicable standard for interconnecting distributed resources with electric
power systems, as it may be amended from time to time. The customer shall be
responsible for protecting, at the customer’s sole cost and expense, the
renewable generation facilities from any condition or disturbance on the
utility’s electric system, including, but not limited to, voltage sags or
swells, system faults, outages, loss of a single phase of supply, equipment
failures, and lightning or switching surges.
   (D)   The customer shall operate any interconnected renewable generation
facilities in such a manner as not to cause undue fluctuations in voltage,
intermittent load characteristics or otherwise interfere with the operation of
the utility’s electric system. At all times when the renewable generation
facilities are being operated in parallel with the utility’s electric system,
the customer shall operate the renewable generation facilities in a manner that
no disturbance will be produced to the service(s) rendered by the utility to
any of its other customers, or to any electric system interconnected with the
utility’s electric system. The customer’s control equipment for the renewable
generation facilities shall immediately, completely and automatically
disconnect and isolate the renewable generation facilities from the utility’s
electric system in the event of a fault on the utility’s electric system, a
fault on the customer’s renewable generation facilities, or loss of a source or
sources on the utility’s electric system. The automatic disconnecting device
included in such control equipment shall not be capable of reclosing until
after service is restored on the utility’s electric system. Additionally, if
the fault is with the customer’s renewable generation facilities, the automatic
disconnecting device shall not be reclosed until after the fault is isolated
from the customer’s renewable generation facilities.
   (E)   Upon 24 hours advance notice to the customer, the utility shall have
access to any interconnected renewable generation facilities to perform on-site
inspections to verify that the installation and operation of the renewable
generation facilities comply with the requirements of this subchapter, and to
verify the proper installation and continuing safe operation of the renewable
generation facilities.
      (1)   The utility shall also have at all times immediate access to
breakers or any other equipment that will isolate the renewable generation
facilities from the utility’s electric system.
      (2)   The utility shall not be responsible for any costs the customer may
incur as a result of such inspection(s).
      (3)   The utility shall have the right and authority to isolate approved
interconnected renewable generation facilities at the utility’s sole
discretion, if the utility believes that:
         (a)   Continued interconnection and parallel operation of the
renewable generation facilities with the utility’s electric system creates or
contributes (or will create or contribute) to a system emergency on either the
utility’s or the customer’s electric facilities;
         (b)   The renewable generation facilities are not in compliance with
the requirements of this subchapter; or
         (c)   The renewable generation facilities interfere with the operation
of the utility’s electric system.
      (4)   In non-emergency situations, the utility shall give the customer
reasonable notice prior to isolating the renewable generation facilities.
   (F)   During all periods of parallel operation of the renewable generation
facilities with the utility’s electric system, the customer shall procure and
keep in force homeowners, commercial or other insurance to protect the
interests of the utility as a named insured, with insurance carriers acceptable
to the utility, and in amounts not less than those reasonably determined by the
utility to be necessary taking into consideration the nameplate capacity,
configuration and type of the renewable generation facilities being insured.
The customer shall indemnify and hold harmless the utility, the Town, its
employees, representatives, agents and subcontractors, from and against all
claims, liability, damages and expenses, including attorney’s fees, based on
any injury to any person, including the loss of life, or damage to any
property, including the loss of use thereof, arising out of, resulting from, or
connected with, or that may be alleged to have arisen out of, resulted from, or
connected with, an act or omission by the customer, its employees, agents,
representatives, successors or assigns, in the construction, ownership,
operation or maintenance of the customer’s renewable generation facilities. If
the utility is required to bring an action to enforce its rights under this
division, either as a separate action or in connection with another action, and
its rights are upheld, the customer shall reimburse the utility for all
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred in connection with such action.
   (G)   If a customer owning or leasing a renewable generation facility
produces more energy from such facility than the customer’s electric load at
that meter, then the excess energy produced shall be purchased from the
customer by IMPA pursuant to the terms of a separate power purchase agreement
between the customer and IMPA. The utility shall own any meter used to measure
output of energy from the customer’s renewable generation facility.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
§ 51.28 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to connect or maintain the
connection of a renewable generating facility to the utility’s grid without
obtaining the utility’s approval of an interconnection application. Any person
or entity found to be in violation of this section shall be fined not less than
$500, nor more than $2,500, for each violation, plus costs. In addition to the
foregoing fines, and at the utility's sole discretion, property where a
renewable generating facility is unlawfully connected to the utility’s grid may
be disconnected from the utility’s grid until an interconnection application is
approved. Every day that a violation of this section occurs shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
CHAPTER 52: GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Containers; accumulations
   
52.03   Receptacles
   
52.04   Right to removal
   
52.05   Rates and charges
   
52.06   Supervision
   
52.07   Storage, pickup, handling and the like; receptacles
   
52.08   Placing certain matter in Town-owned receptacles
   
52.09   Disposal of garbage and the like
   
52.10   Flammable refuse; handling contagious disease
   
52.11   Leaves
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Any and all refuse accumulation of animal, fish, fowl, fruit or
vegetable matter that results from the preparation, use, cooking of meats,
fish, fowl, fruit or other substances, including lawn cuttings, green shrubbery
and leaves.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. It shall be a public nuisance to burn any garbage or trash
at or on the exterior of buildings in the Town; except that, commercial
incinerators may be used for burning of garbage, trash or rubbish upon
application and approval of said proposed commercial incinerator by the Town
Council, but in all such cases, all such commercial incinerators shall meet the
requirements and specifications, in accordance with standards set by the Board
of Health, or as set by the Town Council from time to time hereafter. All
violations of this chapter shall constitute a PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   TRASH and RUBBISH. Material other than garbage resulting from ordinary
household and commercial operations including such items as tin cans, glass,
bottles, ashes, papers, magazines and newsprint, boxes, rags and small cartons.
(2005 Code, § 70.10)
§ 52.02 CONTAINERS; ACCUMULATIONS.
   (A)   Containers for the accumulation of trash, rubbish or garbage shall be
of solid metal or plastic type, with a secure fitting lid.
   (B)   From and after the effective date of this chapter, no rubbish or trash
shall be burned in containers in the Town, on or at the exterior of buildings
or premises, except in approved incinerators meeting State Board of Health
standards.
   (C)   Accumulations of garbage, trash or rubbish in containers larger than
30 gallons in size and 60 pounds in weight shall constitute a violation of this
chapter.
   (D)   The Town Council be, and hereby is, authorized and empowered to remove
and dispose of any and all barrels, drums, containers or receptacles
accumulating garbage, trash or rubbish, which said barrels, drums, containers
or receptacles fail to meet the qualifications and specifications as to size
heretofore set forth, providing said barrels, drums, containers or receptacles
are situated at the exterior of buildings within the corporate limits of the
Town, if they contain rubbish, trash or garbage. The Chief of Police and all of
the officers of the Police Department shall be the enforcement agency for the
enforcement of this chapter, and for the abatement and prevention of violations
of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 70.20)
§ 52.03 RECEPTACLES.
   All garbage, trash or rubbish must be stored in the provided receptacle(s)
provided by the contracted collector for the Town of Walkerton. All receptacles
shall be placed conveniently for collection pursuant to the trash collection
company’s requirements. All receptacles may not be placed at the street for
pickup any earlier than 24 hours before pickup and must be removed within 24
hours after pickup. Receptacles are not allowed to remain on street curbs
except for the 48-hour timeframe for pickup. Failure to comply will result
first in a warning and then in a fine.
(2005 Code, § 70.21)
§ 52.04 RIGHT TO REMOVAL.
   Any resident, property owner or tenant within the Town shall be entitled to
garbage and refuse removal services, subject to rules and regulations which
shall be established by the Town Council; provided, however, that, owners or
tenants of commercial and industrial properties shall arrange for their own
collection services at their own expense. The Town shall not be required to
give service to any user who has not paid for the service.
(2005 Code, § 70.30)
§ 52.05 RATES AND CHARGES.
   The Town Council is hereby authorized to establish by resolution a schedule
of rates and charges to be assessed for residential garbage removal services.
The charges shall be placed on a customer’s utility statement and will be
payable in advance and billed at least as often as quarterly. Charges for
residential accounts shall be established by the Town Council, by resolution,
taking into consideration the amount of garbage and frequency of pickup.
(2005 Code, § 70.31) (Res. 2004-6, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 52.06 SUPERVISION.
   The Town Council shall at all times exercise supervision over the collection
of garbage and refuse through the Public Works Director or such other person as
it may appoint. The Town Council is empowered to enter into contracts and
agreements with a private garbage collector and make any necessary rules having
due regard for the public health, appearance and sanitary conditions of the
Town. Owners of commercial and industrial properties are permitted to employ
any garbage and refuse collector of their choosing; however, all residential
garbage and refuse removal shall be under the supervision of the Town Council
and all residential property owners or tenants shall be assessed charges for
their services. Each user will be deemed to be residential based upon the rate
classification adopted by the water and electric utilities and the charges
shall be included on the water and/or electric utility bill sent the user.
(2005 Code, § 70.32)
§ 52.07 STORAGE, PICKUP, HANDLING AND THE LIKE; RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUTHORIZED CONTRACTOR. The person holding the franchise granted by the
Town for the collection of garbage, trash and refuse within the Town.
      DWELLING. Any room or group of rooms located within or on a premises and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
      GARBAGE. All putrescible waste, except sewage and body waste, including
all meat, vegetable and fruit refuse and carcasses of small dead animals and
dead fowls from any premises in the Town.
      PREMISES. Business houses, boarding houses, rooming houses, offices,
theaters, hotels, tourist camps, apartments, restaurants, café, bars, eating
houses, hospitals, schools, private residences, vacant lots or other places
within the Town.
      RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. If the Town is participating in curbside recycling
program, the contractor will provide containers and determine the material to
be collected. That information will be available at the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office.
      REFUSE. All solid waste, including garbage and trash.
      TRASH. Empty tin cans, open or broken bottles, waste paper and paper
boxes, small light wood scraps or craft materials and other earthen, wood or
metal refuse like scrap materials.
(2005 Code, § 70.33)
   (B)   Commercial and industrial trash and rubbish, which may be readily
handled by the collection service, may be stored in any manner which does not
create a nuisance or a fire hazard. When excessive amounts of refuse
accumulated and where storage as required above is impractical, a metal bulk
storage container, approved by the county health officer shall be maintained.
All such persons shall keep their containers clean and free from accumulations
of any substances remaining attached to the inside of the container which would
attract or breed flies, mosquitoes or any other insects.
(2005 Code, § 70.34)
§ 52.08 PLACING CERTAIN MATTER IN TOWN-OWNED RECEPTACLES.
   No person shall throw, dump or place or cause to be thrown, dumped or
placed, in any trash receptacle owned by the Town on any street, alley, highway
or thoroughfare within the Town, any garbage, animal or vegetable substance of
any kind or character whatever.
(2005 Code, § 70.35)
§ 52.09 DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall place any garbage, trash or refuse in any street,
alley or other public place or upon any private property with the Town unless
it is in proper containers for collection, nor shall any person throw or
deposit any garbage, trash or refuse in a stream, lake, pond, body of water or
ravine.
(2005 Code, § 70.38)
   (B)   Any unauthorized accumulation of garbage, trash or refuse on any
premises is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. No person shall
permit any garbage, trash or refuse to accumulate on his or her premises or on
premises under his or her control in any quantity greater than that for which
he or she has made provisions for regular weekly collection and disposal.
(2005 Code, § 70.39)
   (C)   No person shall cart, place, sweep or deposit anywhere within the Town
any garbage, trash or refuse in such manner that it may be carried or deposited
by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, parkway or other
public place or upon any occupied premises within the Town.
(2005 Code, § 70.40)
§ 52.10 FLAMMABLE REFUSE; HANDLING CONTAGIOUS DISEASE.
   (A)   Contagious disease refuse. Removal of wearing apparel, bedding or
other refuse from homes or other places where highly infectious or contagious
diseases shall prevail shall be performed under the supervision and direction
of the County Health Officer. Such refuse shall not be placed in containers for
regular collection.
   (B)   Flammable or explosive refuse. Highly flammable or explosive materials
shall not be placed in containers for regular collection, but shall be disposed
of as directed by the Chief of the Fire Department at the expense of the owner
or possessor thereof.
(2005 Code, § 70.41)
§ 52.11 LEAVES.
   (A)   Generally. The Town, by its municipal utility workers, shall remove
from the Town leaves that have been placed at the curb by its citizens. Said
leaf pickup shall occur in the fall and it shall be the responsibility of the
Public Works Director or his or her agent to announce pickup times for the
leaves and to further serve proper notice to the citizens for the Town
concerning the dates of the pickup.
   (B)   Residential burning of leaves during designated periods. Burning of
leaves shall be permitted from 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. at the following times
during the year: October 15 to November 15 and April 15 to May 15 of each year.
Only leaves may be burned. Open burning of other materials is prohibited.
Burning is prohibited in apartment complexes and mobile home parks.
(2005 Code, § 70.70)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   From and after the passage of this chapter, and the legal publication
thereof, any person violating any of the provisions hereof shall be punished by
a fine as listed in the Appendix: Fines and Penalties in Ch. 31 of this code of
ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 70.60)
CHAPTER 53: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Wellhead protection regulations
Water System
   
53.15   Definitions
   
53.16   Department of Water Utility; powers
   
53.17   Public Works Director
   
53.18   Remote meter readout
Use Regulations
   
53.30   Application of rules and regulations
   
53.31   Rates, rules and regulations; availability
   
53.32   Contracts for service
   
53.33   Classes of service
   
53.34   Deposits
   
53.35   Service
   
53.36   Service connections and connection capacity fees
   
53.37   Metering
   
53.38   Meter readings and billings
   
53.39   Maintenance of service lines and meter boxes
   
53.40   Cross-connections
   
53.41   Use of booster pumps
   
53.42   Ground wires
   
53.43   Fire protection systems
   
53.44   Thawing frozen services
   
53.45   Special services
   
53.46   Discontinuance of service
   
53.47   Interruption of service
   
53.48   Main extension policy
   
53.49   Protective devices
   
53.50   Changes and modifications
   
53.51   Sprinkling restrictions
   
53.52   Disconnection prior to razing
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 WELLHEAD PROTECTION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Council adopts the County Health Department Wellhead
Protection Ordinance, Ord. 103-98, and requests the County Health Department to
administer the wellhead protection program for the benefit of the community
public water system utilized by the Town.
   (B)   The community public water system identified as the Town shall
designate and delineate the wellhead protection area (WHPA) in accordance with
criteria established in 327 I.A.C. 8-4.1-5, all as set forth under Ord. 103-98,
County Code Ch. 24.24.05, entitled “Wellhead Protection”.
   (C)   Property owners not exempted under Ord. 103-98, utilities or local
units of government with multiple facilities on several properties shall apply
for and obtain a wellhead protection area permit issued by the County Health
Department in accordance with the terms and provisions of the wellhead
protection ordinance, Ord. 103-98, and shall comply with the requirements
applicable to all wellhead protection area permit holders as described in Ord.
103-98.
   (D)   The Town can withdraw from participation in the program by sending a
letter to the County Health Department stating that the Town is withdrawing
from the program.
(Res. 2002-03, passed 3-18-2002)
WATER SYSTEM
§ 53.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. The physical connection between the water supply of the
Town and any private supply on the premises of the customer or any plumbing
connection or appliance on the premises of the customer through which the Town
supply could become contaminated or chemical or physical properties changed.
   CURB STOP or SERVICE STOP. A valve inserted in the service pipe near the
curb or main for the purpose of turning water on or off to the premises
supplied or to be supplied.
   CUSTOMER. The person, firm, corporation, association, governmental agency or
other political subdivision of the state, either as tenant or owner, which has
been, is being or is to be supplied with water service by the Town.
      (1)   NON-RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. Those persons, firms, corporations,
associations, governmental agencies or other political subdivisions of the
state receiving and paying for service other than for residential purposes.
      (2)   RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. Those persons receiving and paying for
service exclusively for residential purposes.
   DISCONNECTION. The termination or discontinuance of water service.
   DISTRIBUTION MAIN. The pipe owned by the Town which delivers water to:
      (1)   Fire hydrants;
      (2)   Fire lines;
      (3)   Service pipes; and
      (4)   Private mains.
   INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE. The temporary discontinuance of service due to
emergency, construction or maintenance requirements of the Town.
   METER. A device owned by the Town and which measures and records the
quantity of water supplied to the customer.
   MONTH. The period between any two consecutive regularly scheduled meter
readings and billings for water service. Such billings are scheduled at
approximately 30-day intervals.
   PREMISES. A dwelling, building, structure or parcel of real estate which is
supplied through a separate service pipe and meter installation.
   PRIVATE MAIN. A privately owned supply main leading from a distribution main
to one or more customer’s premises. The MAIN is not a part of the Town’s system
and is maintained by the customers which it services.
   SERVICE. Supplying water to premises of customer.
   SERVICE LINE. A supply pipe leading from the tap in the distribution main to
or into the premises supplied or to be supplied.
   TAP or CORPORATION COCK. A fitting owned by the Town and inserted in the
distribution main to which the service line or private main is attached.
   TOWN. The Town of Walkerton, St. Joseph County, Indiana.
(2005 Code, § 104.102)
§ 53.16 DEPARTMENT OF WATER UTILITY; POWERS.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Department of Water Utility which shall be
responsible to the Town Council for the operation of the Town’s water utility.
(2005 Code, § 104.01)
   (B)   The Town Council shall have all powers necessary for the custody,
management and operation of said utility under the provision of I.C. 18-1-21-
1 et seq., and amendments thereto.
(2005 Code, § 104.02)
   (C)   The Town Council shall, by ordinance, establish rates and charges for
water supplied by said utility to adequately provide for the operation,
maintenance, depreciation and repayment of indebtedness of said utility.
(2005 Code, § 104.03)
§ 53.17 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   The Town Council shall appoint a Public Works Director of said utility who
shall serve as head of the Water Department, Electric Department, Wastewater
Department and Street Department.
(2005 Code, § 104.04)
§ 53.18 REMOTE METER READOUT.
   All of the customers of the water utility shall have Walkerton Utility
personnel install remote reading water meters.
(2005 Code, § 104.05)
USE REGULATIONS
§ 53.30 APPLICATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The rules and regulations of the Town, as amended and supplemented, from
time to time, shall govern all water service rendered or to be rendered by the
Town, shall be binding upon every customer, and shall constitute a part of the
terms and conditions of every contract for water service, whether expressly
incorporated therein or not or whether or not a signed application for water
service is on file.
(2005 Code, § 104.101)
§ 53.31 RATES, RULES AND REGULATIONS; AVAILABILITY.
   A copy of all rates, rules and regulations under which water service will be
rendered is filed for the convenience of the public in the office of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer.
(2005 Code, § 104.103) (Ord. 2008-3, passed 9-15-2008; Ord. 2017-4, passed 8-7-
2017; Ord. 2018-12, passed 12-6-2018)
§ 53.32 CONTRACTS FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   A written application for service or a contract properly executed may
be required from customers (including contractors and builders) before the Town
will supply service. However, the Town shall have the right to reject, for any
valid reason, an application. Where unusual construction or equipment expenses
will be involved in furnishing the service, the Town may require the contract
to be for an appropriate period of time specified by the Town when the contract
is executed. A contract charge, which includes the initial turn-on of service,
shall be added to the first month’s bill for water service.
   (B)   It is understood that any application for service accepted by the Town
is subject to a distribution main being, or being made available, adjacent to
the premises and subject to the terms of any and all contracts concerning the
main in force at the time of application.
   (C)   No promise, agreement or representation by any agent of the Town shall
be binding upon the Town unless the same shall have been incorporated in a
written contract signed and approved by an agent of the Town authorized to sign
such contract on behalf of the Town.
   (D)   (1)   The benefits and obligations under any contract for the supply
of water by the Town shall begin when the Town commences to supply water
service.
      (2)   A person who made a contract for water service to premises shall be
held liable for all water service furnished to such premises until such time as
the Town is properly notified to discontinue the service for his or her account
and a final reading of the meter is obtained.
      (3)   The Town shall obtain such final reading as soon as possible.
   (E)   Contracts for water service will cover only the premises and uses
applied for. Customers shall not sell or give away water or grant privileges to
use water to anyone not specifically included in the contract under penalty of
discontinuance of service.
   (F)   Upon request, the customer shall provide information to the Town
concerning the devices that are to be connected to the Town’s distribution main
and the location of the premises. The Town may request the customer to provide
plans and specifications covering the construction on the premises.
(2005 Code, § 104.104)
§ 53.33 CLASSES OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The Town has two classes of service:
      (1)   A service to supply metered water to residential customers,
industrial and municipal users;
      (2)   Non-residential customers for commercial, industrial, municipal,
fire protection uses, sprinkler installations, tank truck filling, contractors
and customers service other than residential.
   (B)   All services shall fall into one or the other of these classes.
(2005 Code, § 104.105)
§ 53.34 DEPOSITS.
   (A)   The Town requires from each applicant for service a fee as set out in
the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances for renters (copy of lease required) per
meter and a fee as set out in the Fee Schedule for homeowners per meter, as a
guarantee against the non-payment of bills for service. Such deposit shall
remain with the Town, without interest, for the time service is to be supplied.
When a customer has established service for one year with no late fees, the
deposit can be refunded upon request.
   (B)   The Town may, but shall not be required, to apply the customer’s
deposit to payment of water bills or any other charge.
   (C)   The deposit, where chargeable, shall be applied against the final bill
when service has been terminated. Any outstanding credit balance shall be
refunded to the customer, and any outstanding debit balance shall be billed to
the customer.
   (D)   Any deposit made by the customer (less any lawful deductions) which
has remained unclaimed for seven years after the Town has made diligent efforts
to locate the person who made such deposit or the heirs of such person, shall
be presumed to be abandoned and treated in accordance with the laws of the
state.
(2005 Code, § 104.106)
§ 53.35 SERVICE.
   (A)   Until a contract for water service has been executed and a meter has
been installed, water shall not be turned on at any premises by anyone, but a
Town water employee or authorized representative. No person, except an
authorized employee of the Town Water Department, Fire Department or any other
person authorized by the Town shall open, operate or remove the nozzle cap from
any hydrant to which water is supplied by the Town.
   (B)   In order to determine that no open spigot or fault exists in the
plumbing, a representative of the builder must be on hand at the site of the
building before water will be turned on by Town personnel. When additional
visits must be made to turn on the service, an additional charge will be made.
   (C)   When water service is to be transferred and the meter has been left in
for the convenience of the Town with the service shut off at the valve ahead of
the meter, the valve shall be sealed and only an employee or the Town Water
Department is authorized to break the seal and provide service.
   (D)   The customer must notify the Town when the billing is to be
transferred to a new customer, otherwise the original customer will be billed
until such record of transfer is made available to the Town.
(2005 Code, § 104.107)
§ 53.36 SERVICE CONNECTIONS AND CONNECTION CAPACITY FEES.
   (A)   Where large connections are made as a part of the initial installation
of “on-site” mains, they may be installed by the developer. All other
connections or taps up to two inches shall be made by Town personnel at the
expense of the customer or developer. The charge for such connection or tap of
three- fourths inch line or one-inch line is a fee as listed in the Fee
Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances. For sizes larger than one inch, a fee as
listed in the Fee Schedule will be charged. A tap order shall be obtained from
the Town for each service connection. For connections larger than one inch, the
customer must purchase the meter for the water.
   (B)   When an individual service is sought for acreage or developed areas
inside or outside the corporate limits of the Town, the following water users,
listed by type of occupancy, shall pay a “user” contribution to partially
reimburse the Town for the supply, treatment, pumping and storage facilities
which are required to furnish water to new installations. The funds accumulated
will be used only to assist in financing the cost of construction of the above-
described facilities when they are required. Payment of the contribution may be
by lump sum or may be pro-rated by contract over a period of time and added to
the monthly water bill. The “equivalent” user unit of is based on a single-
family residence, and the “equivalent” user contribution is hereby initially
established at $200. The “user contribution” shall be applicable in graduated
steps over a period of years - 25% in 1988, 50% in 1989, 60% in 1990, 70% in
1991, 80% in 1992, and 100% in 1993, and thereafter. The units listed below
will presently pay a contribution based on the multiplication of the listed
decimal times the established user contribution. The equivalent user
contribution as well as the multiplication factors listed below may, from time
to time, be updated and changed by the Town Council.
Equivalent User Contribution Multiplier
Water User Unit
Equivalent User Contribution Multiplier
Water User                        Unit
Airports                          0.03/passenger/day
Apartments                        0.80/apartment
Barber shop                       0.25/chair
Bars and cocktail lounges         0.12/seat
   W/ restaurant additional    0.13/seat
Beauty shops                      0.70/chair
Bowling alley                     0.40/alley
   W/ bar additional           0.50/alley
Car washes                        0.018/sq. ft. inside
Churches                          0.008/member
Dentist office                    2.5/chair
Drive-in restaurants              0.12/car space
Drive-in theaters                 0.20/car space
Retail space                      0.20/per 1,000 sq. ft.
   W/ fountain service addition0.05/seat
Duplex residence                  2.0
Institutions other than hospitals 0.60/bed
Laundry (commercial)              35.0
Launderette                       2.0/machine
Mobile home park                  1.0/unit
Motels                            0.90/room
Offices                           0.25/per 1,000 sq. ft.
Physicians office                 1.0/examining room
Restaurant                        0.10/seat
Rooming houses                    0.30/renter
Service stations                  1.5/island
Single-family residence           1.0
Swimming pools (commercial)       10.0/1,000 sq. ft.
Theater                           0.10/seat
Town house                        1.0/unit
 
   (C)   Contributions of users not listed will be computed based on estimated
usage. All users shall also be billed a monthly water rate according to
established rates on file with the Town Clerk-Treasurer. Except for single-
family residential users where a user has consumed metered water for a
continuous 18-month period, the Town will review its contribution set forth
based upon usage for the preceding 12-month metered period, and will adjust the
unit contribution in accordance with actual usage, either upward or downward as
the metered usage reflects. This adjustment will fix the unit contribution for
the particular user and no further adjustments will thereafter be made. For the
purpose of reviewing the unit contribution, the usage of a single-family
residence will be considered as 5,000 gallons per month.
   (D)   (1)   Each connection to the distribution main shall be installed so
that a line perpendicular to the long axis of the main at the connection will
intersect the meter location. Under certain conditions (such as locations where
mains are not laid in a straight line or where buildings are not parallel with
the street) the connection may be located so a line perpendicular to the face
of the building will intersect both the meter and the connection. A valve shall
be installed immediately adjacent to the main for connections larger than two
inches. A corporation stop shall be inserted in the main for connections two
inches or smaller. Maximum size corporation tap for a six-inch main is one
inch, for eight-inch and ten-inch mains, one and one-half inches, and for
larger mains two inches. For larger size services up to two inches on six-,
eight- and ten-inch mains, multiple taps or saddles may be used.
      (2)   For each service, a valve shall be installed near the property line
in the public right-of-way. For services two inches and smaller, the Town will
furnish and install the service pipe from the main to the curb stop. The Town
reserves the right to locate the stop at: the curb line, inside line of the
sidewalk or at the property line, whichever, in the judgment of the Town, will
provide the most satisfactory locations for the curb stop and service box. For
connections larger than two inches, the customer or developer shall furnish and
install the service stop and service pipe from the valve at the distribution
main to the property line. Service stop shall be located as directed by the
Town. All valves, pipe and valve boxes shall conform to requirements of the
Town’s “material specifications”. Depth of cover for service pipe shall be four
to six inches, minimum.
   (E)   The customer shall, at his or her own expense, install and maintain
the service pipe from the curb or service stop to the meter. Service pipes
between curb stop and meter shall conform to requirements of the Town’s
“material specifications”. The Town or its authorized representative shall
inspect each service pipe before the trench is backfilled. As a rule, water
service will only be furnished to one property through a single service pipe. A
separate service pipe is required for each water meter installed.
   (F)   (1)   Taps will not be installed until platting has been approved,
rough grading has been completed and sidewalks, curbs and structures to be
served have been located.
      (2)   If the service pipe from the house to the service stop is installed
prior to the Town installing the tap, the end of the pipe shall be plainly
marked or the service pipe shall project above the surface to show its
location. Sufficient pipe is to be installed to allow proper location of the
service stop.
      (3)   The Town will make the connection between the Town’s service pipe
and the customers service pipe if the pipe from the building is installed and
available.
   (G)   The Town will make every reasonable effort to assist the customer or
developer in scheduling the tapping of the distribution for orderly
installation of the service pipe.
   (H)   Any developer, general contractor or person responsible for disturbing
or damaging water services or valve boxes, once the services have been properly
installed, shall be liable for the cost of repairs.
   (I)   (1)   In general, water on a flat rate basis will be available for
residential construction only. The supply of water for other types of
construction, including commercial and industrial, will necessitate the
installation of a meter in temporary housing providing sufficient protection to
prevent freezing or vandalism. In lieu of a meter setting, a flat charge per
month based on probable water use may be negotiated with the Town. A refundable
deposit will be required for each meter.
      (2)   Water may be furnished to a residential developer or other
homebuilder upon request as determined appropriate by the Town Council through
temporary metered water service.
      (3)   Water obtained under the above arrangements will be confined to use
on the lot or premises covered in the specific agreement.
   (J)   (1)   New users that connect to the water utility shall pay, in
addition to the tap fee provided for in the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances, a connection capacity fee as set forth in
the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   A connection capacity fee or tap fee as provided for in the Fee
Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances is only valid for three months after said tap
fee and/or connection capacity fee is paid. If the connection is not made
within said three-month period of time, then the tap fee and/or connection
capacity fee paid is forfeited to the town and a new tap fee and/or connection
capacity fee shall be paid whenever the work is to be done.
(2005 Code, §104.108) (Ord. 2002-17, passed 12-16-2002; Ord. 2003-7, passed 8-
4-2003)
§ 53.37 METERING.
   (A)   (1)   Unless otherwise specified in the contract between the Town and
the customer, the water supplied will be measured by a meter or meters of
standard manufacture, furnished and installed by the Town according to its
requirements in force and effect as amended from time to time. The customer
shall provide for this purpose, free of expense to the Town, a suitable area
near the service entrance either in the basement, or in a location which is
approved by the Town before installation. Residential meters shall be installed
three feet to three feet six inches above the floor and as shown on standard
meter installation drawings which may be obtained from the Town. Customer shall
provide and maintain suitable means of access to the meter with no obstructions
of any kind within three feet of the meter.
      (2)   Customer shall provide and install an approved stop and drain valve
on the inlet side of the meter and a shut off valve on the house side of the
meter as specified by the Town. One inch meters shall be installed in yokes.
For one and one-half inch and two-inch meters, a spacer and flanges shall be
installed as specified by the Town. As a convenience, the Town stocks yokes,
flanges, and spacers and will upon request sell to the customer. A remote
reading device will be installed by the Town at a mutually agreeable location.
For meters one and one-half inches and larger, the installation shall conform
in all respects to standard meter installation details which may be obtained
from the Town.
   (B)   A charge will be made for each meter installation. For new services,
this charge is included in the connection or tap charge. For customers desiring
service where existing taps, service lines and yokes may be used, the charge is
included in the contract charge. This charge is based on the average cost of
installing meters and the Town may, from time to time, adjust these charges to
reflect current charges.
   (C)   If a customer requests for his convenience or by his or her actions
requires that Town facilities be re-designed, re-engineered, relocated,
removed, modified or reinstalled, the Town may require the customer to make
payment to it of the full cost of performing such service.
   (D)   (1)   The Town reserves the right to determine the kind and size of
meter that shall be used on any service pipe. The water supplied for each
customer’s premises shall ordinarily be measured by a single meter of standard
manufacture installed by the Town. However, for the convenience of the Town
more than one meter may be installed for capacity purposes on the same class of
service, on the same premises for the same customer. In this case, meter
readings shall be aggregated and billed as if from a single meter.
      (2)   When for the convenience of the customer, water for a premises is
metered at more than one service line, each meter shall be billed separately.
   (E)   When the customer will permanently require for his or her own use and
convenience one or more additional meters for the same class of service in any
one premises, the customer may purchase the meter or meters from the Town. The
Town will not supply extra meters, except for temporary installation. When such
temporary extra meters are installed at the request of the customer, the
customer shall be required to pay the cost (excepting meter) required for the
installation and removal. A rental charge, dependent upon size and type of
meter, will be made for each extra meter.
   (F)   The properly authorized agents of the Town shall have the right to
enter upon the premises of the customer at all reasonable times for the purpose
of inspecting, reading, testing, repairing or replacing the meter or meters,
appliances and equipment used in connection with its service and removing the
same on the termination of the contract or the discontinuance of the service.
   (G)   All meters or other appliances and equipment which are furnished by
and at the expense of the Town and which may at any time be on the customer’s
premises shall, unless otherwise expressly provided herein, be and remain the
property of the Town. The customer shall protect such property from freezing
and from loss or damage and no one who is not a representative of the utility
shall be permitted to remove such property or tamper therewith.
   (H)   Ordinary repairs to meters will be made by the Town without expense to
the customer. Repairs of damage caused by carelessness or neglect on the part
of the customer including damage from freezing or from hot water, will also be
made by the Town, but the cost of such repairs shall be charged to the
customer. After a second instance of a damage meter due to negligence of the
customer, the Town may discontinue service until the customer properly protects
the meter from damage.
   (I)   A meter will be tested by the Town upon request of the customer, but
not more frequently than once in 12 months. A report of the results of such a
test will be made to the customer and a complete record of the test will be
kept on file in the office of the Town. The customer may be, and is encouraged
to be, present or have a representative present when the meter is tested. If a
test requested by the customer established that the meter is over-registering
more than 2%, no charge will be made for the test and an adjustment shall be
made for the difference during the time of the malfunction up to a period of
one year. Otherwise, the Town shall charge the customer for making the test in
accordance with the schedule on file with the Town.
   (J)   When a residential meter is found to under register in excess of 2% in
tests made at the request of the customer, the Town may charge the customer for
the water incorrectly metered for a period equal to one-half of the time
elapsed since the previous test, but not to exceed six months. If a meter is
found not to register for any period, the Town shall estimate the charge for
the water used by averaging the amounts registered over similar periods, or
over corresponding periods in previous years.
   (K)   (1)   For the determination of residential meter accuracy, the Town
shall use the appropriate test flows specified by the American Water Works
Association for the various type of meters. Tests on large meters shall be as
recommended by the meter manufacturer.
      (2)   If under registration, the cost of the test shall be borne by the
customer and if over registration, the cost will be borne by the Town. Cost of
water shall be adjusted as with residential meters.
(2005 Code, § 104.109)
§ 53.38 METER READINGS AND BILLINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Water rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected
by the Town in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
      (2)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants
occupying the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the
owner, but such billings shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability
in the event payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties
served which are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to
examine the collection records of the Town for the purpose of determining
whether bills have been paid by such tenant or tenants; provided that, such
examination shall be made at the Municipal Building during regular normal
business hours.
      (3)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due
are hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates or charges shall thereupon attach hereto. The time at which such rates or
charges shall be paid is now fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of the
bill. If a bill is not paid before the due date indicated on the bill, the
customer will be considered delinquent and, at any time thereafter prior to the
payment thereof, the Town may, after serving notice, discontinue service.
Failure to receive the bill shall not affect the right of the Town to
discontinue service for non-payment.
   (B)   All water charges accrued to customer rather than the premises. If a
customer moves from premises where he or she has been supplied with water
service, he or she will be held responsible for the payment of all bills
rendered for the service supplied to said premises until he or she gives proper
notice to the Town that service is to be discontinued at said premises.
   (C)   Bills for public fire protection and private fire protection shall be
rendered yearly. Rates are on file with the Town.
   (D)   All special services for which cash payment is not required will be
billed with the next regular monthly bill following the date the service was
performed. Rates for special services are on file with the Town.
   (E)   Each bill shall be due upon receipt and payable at the customer
service office at the Walkerton Municipal Building.
   (F)   All charges for water service, other than service charges, if any,
shall be based on the registration of the meter or meters installed.
   (G)   The Town shall make an effort to read meters at least once a month and
such reading shall be prima facie evidence of the amount of water used. If the
Town is temporarily unable to gain access to a customer’s property, the
customer shall be billed an estimated charge based on previous meter readings
unless customer promptly and accurately fills out and mails a postcard left by
the meter reader. The first billing made after the meter is read shall be
adjusted according to the actual meter reading. No more than two estimated
readings will be allowed. Failure to make meter available or to send in
postcard readings for three consecutive quarters will result in disconnection
of service. A maximum of four consecutive postcard readings, promptly submitted
by the customer, will be allowed before a customer is required to install an
outside remote reading device or to make arrangements for a special meter
reading.
   (H)   All water passing through meters shall be charged for, whether used,
wasted or lost through leakage.
   (I)   Disputing the accuracy of a bill shall not be reason for non-payment
of the bill by the customer. The customer may pay a bill under protest, thus
giving written notice that redress is being sought. Such written notice must be
filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer prior to the due date of the bill.
(2005 Code, § 104.110)
§ 53.39 MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE LINES AND METER BOXES.
   (A)   All service lines two inches and smaller from the distribution main to
and including the curb stop and box shall be maintained in good repair at the
expense of the Town, including the replacement thereof if necessitated because
of corrosion, tuberculation or other deterioration. However, if replacement is
necessary due to increased demand or damage caused by the customer, such
replacement shall be at the customer’s expense.
   (B)   All service lines and fixtures from the curb stop to the meter, and
all service lines two and one- half inches and larger from the distribution
main to the meter, shall be installed and maintained at the expense of the
owner. Any leaks or other defects shall be properly and promptly repaired by
him or her. Existing services extended to property not adjacent to a water
main, whether through public or private property, shall be considered a private
service line, the maintenance of which shall be the customer’s responsibility,
unless said line or main has been accepted in writing for maintenance by the
Town prior to its installation. If needed repairs are not made to service lines
or private lines within five days of notification by the Town, the property
owners may be charged a sum as listed in the Appendix: Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances. In cases of emergency, the Town will shut
off the water, make the repair and charge the customer for this service on the
basis of actual cost, plus overhead expenses.
   (C)   All meter boxes (including pits or vaults) constructed or installed by
the owner, regardless of location, and all such boxes constructed or installed
by the Town and located on private property shall be maintained in good repair
by the Town, and any necessary repairs charged to the owner.
   (D)   Effective upon the adoption of this code, no new private service lines
or new connections to existing private service lines will be permitted. After
this date, service will only be furnished to properties located adjacent to a
water main.
(2005 Code, § 104.111)
§ 53.40 CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any cross-connection with other sources of water supply shall be made
in conformity with the rules and regulations of the State Board of Health and/
or such requirements as other regulatory bodies may from time to time require
and/or the rules and regulations of the Town in force at that time. Copies of
the State Board of Health regulations and Town requirements are on file for the
benefit and inspection of parties concerned.
   (B)   All plumbing shall conform to the State Plumbing Code, which does not
permit physical connections between the public water supply and waste lines,
process solution lines, tanks and the like, unless properly protected by
approved safety devices.
   (C)   As a condition to receiving water service, the customer shall grant to
the Town, upon request, the right to enter the customer’s premises to make
periodic inspections of customer’s piping. The Town will report any violations,
as set out in divisions (A) and (B) above, to both the customer and to the
respective regulatory authority. The Town will not assume responsibility for
damage, sickness or death arising from the existence of an improper cross-
connection or the use or failure of a cross-connection prevention device.
Failure to correct a non-complying installation will lead to a disconnection of
service.
(2005 Code, § 104.112)
§ 53.41 USE OF BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   Booster pumps shall not be installed without the written approval of
the Town.
   (B)   In all booster pump installations, the suction of the pump shall be
connected to an atmospheric tank being controlled by an automatic float valve
and freely discharging into the tank a minimum of six inches above the positive
over-flow level of the tank.
   (C)   As an alternative, an approved back flow prevention device may be
installed on the suction of the pump.
(2005 Code, § 104.113)
§ 53.42 GROUND WIRES.
   The Town is aware that telephone and electric companies may ground wires to
water lines. The Town does not install such connections; derives no benefit
from them; and tolerates them only because of their reputed importance to safe
and effective telephone and electric service. When and if they are found to
appear to be the cause of damage, the Town may order them removed, and may
discontinue service until they are removed.
(2005 Code, § 104.114)
§ 53.43 FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Before any modifications are made to any private fire protection
systems or before service is furnished to any new fire protection system
connected to or proposed to be connected to and supplied with water from the
Town’s distribution mains, final plans shall be filed with and approved by the
Town. The following shall be shown on the plans:
      (1)   The number of sprinkler heads to be served;
      (2)   The sizes and locations of the system piping;
      (3)   The sizes and locations of all connections to the Town’s
distribution mains;
      (4)   The sizes, locations and types of all valves;
      (5)   The sizes and locations of all hose connections, reels or cabinets;
      (6)   The sizes and locations of storage tanks connected to the system;
      (7)   The outlet sizes and locations of all fire hydrants; and
      (8)   The maximum flow rate in gallons per minute recommended by the
Insurance Underwriters.
   (B)   All fire protection lines within building shall be installed in such
manner that all pipes will be easily accessible for inspection at any time.
Underground pipes outside of buildings must be placed and maintained at a
minimum depth of four and one-half feet. No connections with a fire protection
system will be permitted to supply water service for commercial or industrial
use, unless the connection has been approved by the customer’s fire
underwriter, the Town and the commercial or industrial use is metered.
   (C)   A private fire protection system without a tank shall be equipped with
an alarm valve and a check valve. A system with a tank shall have one alarm
valve and two check valves.
(2005 Code, § 104.115)
§ 53.44 THAWING FROZEN SERVICES.
   (A)   The thawing of frozen customer service lines shall be the
responsibility of the customer.
   (B)   When a distribution main is found to be frozen, the Town will thaw, at
its expense, the service line connected with that part of the main which is
frozen.
   (C)   At the request of any customer, or upon the Town’s initiative, the
Town will make an investigation (but not including any digging) and inform the
customer of any conditions found upon the premises which might cause the
freezing and advise him of the steps necessary to remedy such condition.
(2005 Code, § 104.116)
§ 53.45 SPECIAL SERVICES.
   A SPECIAL SERVICE is a temporary service which is expected to terminate
within 30 days after connection. The Town of Walkerton has a swimming pool
filling policy and other separate policies for other special services that can
be reviewed at the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(2005 Code, § 104.117)
§ 53.46 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Whenever a customer desires to have service discontinued, he or she
shall notify the Town sufficiently in advance of such desire and of the date on
which service is to be discontinued, to provide a reasonable time for the Town
to obtain the final meter reading.
   (B)   There will be no abatement of charges in whole or in part by reason of
the extended absence of the customer of for any other cause unless the Town has
been notified to turn off the water.
   (C)   Where a customer has entered into a contract with the Town to take
service from the Town for a definite period of time specified or provided for
in such contract, customer shall fulfill contract or make such adjustment
satisfactory to the Town.
   (D)   (1)   The Town may discontinue the service of any customer for any of
the following reasons:
         (a)   If a condition dangerous or hazardous to life, physical safety
or property exists;
         (b)   Upon order by any court or other duly authorized public
authority;
         (c)   If fraudulent or unauthorized use of water is detected and the
Town has reasonable ground to believe the affected customer is responsible for
such use;
         (d)   If the Town’s regulating or measuring equipment has been
tampered with and the Town has reasonable grounds to believe that the affected
customer is responsible for such tampering;
         (e)   For any use of water unauthorized by the Town;
         (f)   For unapproved cross-connection of a customer’s water pipes to
any other source of water supply or for permitting any condition to exist about
the premises that causes or might cause pollution of the public water supply;
         (g)   Where customer has failed to repair any leak in the service pipe
or appurtenances between the property line and the meter, or in any private
fire protection system or other unmetered facilities;
         (h)   For any tampering or knowingly permitting any tampering or
interference with any service pipe, service stop, meter seal or other Town
equipment or appliances without permission of the Town;
         (i)   For failure to pay in accordance with these rules any water
bills or other charges in connection with water utility service installations
or facilities;
         (j)   For failure to provide free and non-hazardous access to the
premises and meter so that representative of the Town may take meter readings,
make all necessary inspections and maintain, replace or remove the meter;
         (k)   For failure to maintain approved meter settings, including pits
and vaults or where the meter is not protected from damage;
         (l)   For installing a new service pipe and/or appurtenances without a
permit from the Town;
         (m)   For failure to comply with the terms of the contract;
         (n)   For violation of any of the Town’s rules and regulations;
         (o)   For any lawful reason;
         (p)   When the Town must repair its mains or services; and/or
         (q)   When for any reasons there is a lack of water in the
distribution system.
      (2)   Discontinuance of service for any of the above reasons shall not
invalidate any contract and the Town shall have the right to enforce any
contract notwithstanding such discontinuance.
   (E)   In each case, except those arising under divisions (D)(1)(a), (D)(1)
(b), (D)(1)(f), (D)(1)(p) or (D)(1)(q) above, the Town shall give written
notice of at least five days either mailed to such customer at his or her
address as shown upon the Town’s records or personally delivered to him or her
or a person on the premises, advising the customer the reason for the proposed
discontinuance of service and stating that service will be discontinued if the
condition continues uncorrected. In cases provided for in divisions (D)(1)(a),
(D)(1)(b), (D)(1)(f), (D)(1)(p) or (D)(1)(q) above, the Town may discontinue
service without notice.
   (F)   Whenever the service is turned off for reasons other than divisions
(D)(1)(a), (D)(1)(b), (D)(1)(f), (D)(1)(p) or (D)(1)(q) above, a reconnection
charge shall be paid after the condition resulting in the turn-off is remedied
and prior to the restoration of service. This charge shall be determined by the
Town and may, from time to time, be revised to reflect current costs. Where
condition requiring turn-off is not remedied prior to arrival of the Town’s
serviceman at premises, to make the turn-off and customer then makes remedy, a
service charge rather than a reconnection charge will be made. Service charge
shall be one-half the reconnection charge.
   (G)   The remedies provided to the Town in these rules and regulations shall
not be exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedies which the Town
has at law or in equity.
(2005 Code, § 104.118)
§ 53.47 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   The Town shall not be responsible for damages for any failure to supply
water service or for interruption of the supply of water, or for defective
piping on the customer’s premises, or for damages resulting to a customer or to
third persons from the use of water or the presence of the Town’s devices on
the customer’s premises, unless due to fault, defect or wrong on the part of
the Town. Neither party shall be liable to the other for any failure or delay
in case such failure or delay is caused by strikes, acts of God, unavoidable
accidents or contingencies beyond its control and is not due to fault, neglect
or wrong on their part.
(2005 Code, § 104.119)
§ 53.48 MAIN EXTENSION POLICY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DEVELOPER OR OWNER OF REAL ESTATE. The person, firm, company,
corporation, governmental unit, charitable or not-for-profit organization or
association making application for a permit for a main extension or to use an
existing main.
      EXISTING SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE. A structure occupied by a single
individual, a single family or which was suitable for such occupancy.
      OFF-SITE MAINS. Mains required to reinforce or extend the present water
system to the point(s) where the onsite mains are to be located on public
right-of-way or dedicated easements.
      OVERSIZING. The installation of a main of larger diameter than necessary
to adequately furnish water to the specific development in which it is
installed.
   (B)   Based upon the main size required to serve the development, the
developer shall pay the entire cost of all mains within and bordering upon the
development. Where a development utilizes an existing main, the developer shall
pay to the Town the current cost per foot to install a main of the size
required by the development times the number of feet of said main within or
bordering the development. Should any existing main which borders a development
be capable of serving property on the opposite side of the street for which
availability contributions will be required in the future, the developers cost
for these mains shall be reduced by 50%.
   (C)   All developers requiring a connection to, or an extension or
reinforcement of any water supply transmission main or water distribution main,
owned by the Town shall secure a permit and sign a main extension contract
prior to connecting to any part of the Town’s system. As a condition of
issuance of a permit, all requirements of the Town shall be complied with and
the cost of construction shall be made to the Town.
   (D)   Refunding of costs for oversizing to meet the Town’s specifications
shall be made only for that portion of the oversizing which lies within or
adjacent to the area being developed. Costs advanced for reinforcing or
extending the Town’s existing water distribution system in order to provide
adequate water service to the development shall also be eligible for refunding.
All costs advanced by developers which are determined to be eligible for
refunding shall be refunded without interest.
   (E)   Where larger mains are required by the Town, the developer or owner of
real estate shall be refunded the actual material cost difference between the
size of the main specified by the Town and the size required to serve the
development. When the increase in size is four inches in diameter or less, no
additional reimbursement for labor will be made. When the size increase is more
than four inches in diameter, an additional refund per foot (as listed in the
Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances) will be made for labor and equipment.
   (F)   The owners of real estate requiring a permit for water services shall
submit plans for their on-site water distribution system, including on-site
transmission lines, to the Town for their review and approval before start of
construction. Plans must comply with the Town’s “design criteria” and “material
and installation” specifications. All construction and non-construction costs
of the on-site system are to be born by the owners of real estate. During
construction of on-site water system, the owners of real estate shall pay the
expense of an inspector. The Town will provide the inspector, or may approve,
in writing, some qualified person designated by the owners of real estate to
serve as the inspector. In any case, the owners of real estate will pay the
cost thereof to the Town who will in turn pay the inspector. Upon completion of
construction, the owner shall provide certified “as-built” construction
drawings and certified construction costs to the Town. If “as-built” drawings
are not provided within one month after completion of construction, the Town
may prepare drawings at the expense of the said owners of real estate.
   (G)   All plans for transmission and reinforcing mains to be installed
outside the area being developed by the applicant for water service (e.g., off-
site water mains) shall be prepared by the Town. All easements shall be made
out to the Town, but shall be obtained by, and if necessary, paid for by the
owners of real estate. Easements shall also be in a form approved by the Town.
   (H)   The owners of real estate applying for water service shall deposit
with the Town adequate funds or surety of payment to pay engineering and
appurtenant non-construction project costs prior to the Town proceeding with
preparation of plans. If the project does not proceed to completion after
project costs are established, the money so deposited by the owners of real
estate shall be non-refundable to the extent they are required to pay incurred
expenses. If funds are in excess of expenses, they will be returned to the
owners of real estate making the deposit.
   (I)   If individual applicants for water service in already developed
acreage and/or platted subdivisions wish to be served by an existing
transmission line and/or a local distribution main, they shall obtain a permit
and deposit adequate funds with the Town to pay engineering and appurtenant
costs prior to the authorization of the design for the local system extension
by the Town and the preparation of estimates or the receipt of bids. If the
project does not proceed to completion after project costs are established, the
money so deposited by individual applicants shall be non-refundable to the
extent they are required to pay incurred expenses. If funds are in excess of
expenses, the excess will be returned to the individual making the deposit.
   (J)   All facilities covered by this section of the rule shall be
constructed in existing dedicated streets, alleys or easements; or the owners
of real estate will obtain the required easements.
   (K)   (1)   If already developed acreage and/or platted subdivisions are to
be provided water service, there shall be added for each individual connection
an amount which shall be computed as follows.
         (a)   Where main extension is required. Each user shall pay a pro-
rated share of the project costs computed on the basis of dividing the entire
project cost by the number of water connections desirous of service. Project
costs shall include construction costs determined by public bids, or where main
is installed by the Town, shall be as listed in the Fee Schedule in Ch. 35 of
this code of ordinances. Non-construction costs shall include but not
necessarily be limited to legal, engineering, inspection, permit and easement
and project administrative costs.
         (b)   Where existing mains are used. Each user shall reimburse the
Town for the present cost of the size main required to provide service and fire
protection to suit his or her needs for the total front footage of his or her
lot. For corner lots, the front footage shall include from the centerline of
the street to the property line. For the portion of the front footage where the
main can be used by property owners on both sides of the street, the footage
shall be reduced by 50%.
      (2)   If a connection is made to any transmission line or existing local
distribution system without first obtaining a permit, the individual or owners
of real estate will be subject to a charge of as listed in the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 for each day the connection was unlawfully installed and be required to
remove the connection until a permit is obtained.
   (L)   All extensions to the Town’s water system must be accepted by the Town
before being permanently connected to the system and once connected, shall be
and remain thereafter the sole property of the Town without further dedication
thereof. Warrantee and one year maintenance guarantee on new mains shall be
transferred by the owner to the Town. Once accepted, all maintenance and
repairs become the responsibility of the Town.
   (M)   All persons or corporations, or his, her, their or its survivors,
heirs or assigns, who shall connect to any water main connected to the Town’s
system located outside the Town’s limits, shall agree in writing prior to said
connection, to waive their or its rights to remonstrate against annexation by
the Town. Such agreement, on forms provided by the Town, shall be included in
the title of each affected parcel of property. A copy of the recorded
restriction shall be filed with the Town within 30 days of providing service or
service will be disconnected until such recorded restriction is delivered to
the Town.
(2005 Code, § 104.120)
§ 53.49 PROTECTIVE DEVICES.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of every premises receiving water supply shall
apply and maintain suitable means of protection of the premises supply and all
appliances thereof, against damage arising in any manner from the use of the
water supply, variation of water pressure or any interruption of water supply;
particularly, must such owner or occupant protect water cooled compressors for
refrigeration systems by means of high pressure safety cutout devices. There
shall likewise be provided means for the prevention of the transmission of
water ram or noise of operation of any valve or appliance through the piping of
their own or adjacent premises.
   (B)   On all “closed systems” (i.e., systems having a check valve, pressure
regulator or reducing valve, water filter or softener) an effective pressure
relief valve shall be installed either in the top tapping or the upper side
tapping of the hot water tank, or on the hot water distributing pipe connection
at the tank. A one-half inch drain pipe shall be connected to the relief valve
for discharge on the floor or into a sink or open drain. No stop valve shall be
placed between the hot water tank and the relief valve or on the drain pipe.
   (C)   An air chamber or approved shock absorber shall be installed at the
terminus of each riser, fixture branch or hydraulic elevator main for the
prevention of undue water hammer. The air chamber shall have a diameter not
less than that of the pipe it serves and a length not less than 15 diameters of
said supply pipe. Where possible, the air chamber should be provided with a
valve and drain cock at its base for water drainage and replenishment of air.
(2005 Code, § 104.121)
§ 53.50 CHANGES AND MODIFICATIONS.
   The Town reserves the right to modify any rule or regulation, or to make
such additional regulations as may be found necessary for the better protection
of the public interest in the management of the Town’s waterworks.
(2005 Code, § 104.122)
§ 53.51 SPRINKLING RESTRICTIONS.
   The Town may issue orders limiting the use of water for sprinkling of lawns,
gardens and similar uses during such periods, times or days as the water
storage supply and pumping facilities may require limitation of use for other
consumer uses.
(2005 Code, § 104.123)
§ 53.52 DISCONNECT PRIOR TO RAZING.
   Prior to razing any portion of any building, the person to whom a razing
permit is issued shall cause all water laterals to be disconnected and capped
by a plumber, said disconnections to be at property line. Upon completion of
capping, the Town shall be notified prior to backfilling of excavation.
(2005 Code, § 104.124)
CHAPTER 54: WASTEWATER
Section
General Provisions
   
54.001   Wastewater System Master Plan
   
54.002   Wastewater Compliance Plan
   
54.003   Private wastewater systems
Town Sanitation System
   
54.015   Rates and charges
   
54.016   Definitions
   
54.017   User classes
   
54.018   Billing method
   
54.019   Rate review
   
54.020   Adoption of regulations
Use Regulations
   
54.035   Connections and discharges generally
   
54.036   Definitions
   
54.037   Restrictions
   
54.038   Requirements
   
54.039   Permits
   
54.040   Discharges prohibited
   
54.041   Pretreatment
   
54.042   Plans and specifications
   
54.043   Unpolluted discharge
   
54.044   Industrial cooling water
   
54.045   Analysis of discharge; charges
   
54.046   Traps
   
54.047   Notices
   
54.048   Minimum requirements
   
54.049   Tampering
   
54.050   Inspections
Wastewater Construction
   
54.065   Connection permit required
   
54.066   Permit application
   
54.067   Inspection fee
   
54.068   General connection fee
   
54.069   Multiple dwelling connection fee
   
54.070   Hook-on fees
   
54.071   Increase in water meter size
   
54.072   Owner to pay installation cost
   
54.073   Owner to indemnify Town for loss
   
54.074   Each building to have wastewater connection
   
54.075   Use of old building sewers
   
54.076   Size and slope requirements
   
54.077   Service wastewater miscellaneous requirements
   
54.078   Lack of gravity flow
   
54.079   Open trench excavations required
   
54.080   Joints generally
   
54.081   Public Works Director to supervise connection
   
54.082   Excavation safety precautions
   
54.083   Damage to public property
   
54.084   Commercial haulers
Discharge of Wastewaters
   
54.095   Definitions
   
54.096   Objectives and purposes
   
54.097   General regulations and prohibitions
   
54.098   Admissible industrial wastes; prior approval
   
54.099   Control of admissible industrial wastes
   
54.100   Failure to comply
   
54.101   Access to private property
   
54.102   Records retention
 
   
54.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Electricity, see
Ch. 51
   Net Energy Metering, see
Ch. 55
   Water, see
Ch. 53
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.001 WASTEWATER SYSTEM MASTER PLAN.
   The final document is hereby approved, contingent upon comments and approval
received from the state’s Office of Community and Rural Affairs. The Town
Council of the Town will fully consider all comments and feedback received from
the state’s Office of Community and Rural Affairs and will direct its
consultant to provide amended copies of this plan reflecting all said comments.
(Res. 6, passed 9-17-2007)
§ 54.002 WASTEWATER COMPLIANCE PLAN.
   After the public hearing on this matter and after due consideration, the
Town Council hereby approves the Town’s Wastewater Compliance Plan.
(Res. 2008-1, passed 5-5-2008)
§ 54.003 PRIVATE WASTEWATER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Generally. Whenever a public sanitary or combined sewer is
unavailable, the building service sewer shall be connected to a private
wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter and
approved by the St. Joseph County Board of Health.
(2005 Code, § 101.01)
   (B)   Permit required. Prior to commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit from the
St. Joseph County Health Department and furnish the Public Works Director with
a copy of the permit. If the Public Works Director determines that it is not
practical or possible to connect to a public sanitary or combined sewer, then
the owner may begin construction.
(2005 Code, § 101.02)
   (C)   Compliance with State Health Department. The type, capacities,
location and layout of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all
recommendations of the Department of Public Health of the state.
(2005 Code, § 101.03)
   (D)   No permit for small lots. No permit shall be issued for any private
sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where
the area of the lot is less than 16,000 square feet.
(2005 Code, § 101.04)
   (E)   Discharge of septic tanks in public sewers. No septic tank or cesspool
shall be permitted to discharge to any public sewer or natural outlet.
(2005 Code, § 101.05)
   (F)   Public sewer connection mandatory. At such time as a public sewer
becomes available to property served by a private sewage disposal system, a
direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this
chapter at property owner’s expense. Septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material upon connection with the public wastewater system at property owner’s
expense.
(2005 Code, § 101.06)
   (G)   Sanitary operation of private systems. The owner shall operate and
maintain any private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all
times, and at no expense to the Town.
(2005 Code, § 101.07)
TOWN SANITATION SYSTEM
§ 54.015 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The Town Council shall, by ordinance establish rates and charges for
sanitation services supplied by said works to adequately provide for the
operation, maintenance, depreciation and repayment of indebtedness of said
works.
(2005 Code, § 100.03)
   (B)   For the use of and the services rendered by said sewage works, rates
and charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building that is connected with the Town sanitary system or
otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other
liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewage system of the
Town. Such rates and charges include user charges, debt service costs,
excessive strength surcharges and other service charges, which rates and
charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount
determinable as follows.
      (1)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and charges,
as the same is measured by the water meter there in use, plus a base charge
based on the size of the water meter there in use, plus a base charge based on
the size of the water meter installed, except as herein otherwise provided.
Water meters will be read once each month, and sewage service bills shall be
rendered once each month (or period equaling a month). The water usage schedule
on which the amount of said rates and charges shall be determined by the Town
Council.
(2005 Code, § 100.07)
   (C)   (1)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered to users, the Town shall base its charges not
only on the volume, but also on strength and character of the stronger-than-
normal domestic sewage and wastes which it is required to treat and dispose of.
The Town shall require the user to determine the strength and content of all
sewage and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary
sewage system, in such manner and by such method as the Town may deem
practicable in the light of the conditions and attending circumstances of the
case, in order to determine the proper charge. The user shall furnish a central
sampling point available to the Town at all times.
      (2)   Normal sewage domestic strength should not exceed a biochemical
oxygen demand of 240 milligrams per liter of fluid, or suspended solids in
excess of 240 milligrams per liter of fluid. Additional charges for treating
stronger-than-normal domestic waste shall be made by the Town Council.
      (3)   For the services rendered to the Town, said Town shall be subject
to the same rates and charges hereinabove provided, or to charges and rates
established in harmony therewith.
      (4)   In order that the single-family domestic and residential users of
sewage service shall not be penalized for sprinkling lawns during the summer
months of June, July, August and September, the billing for sewage service for
residences and/or domestic users for said months shall be based upon the water
usage for the previous months of December, January, February and March. In the
event the water usage for said previous months is greater than the water usage
for said summer months, then the billing for sewage services shall be computed
on the actual water used in the month for which the sewage service bill is
being rendered. Domestic and/or residential sewage service as applicable to the
sprinkling rate shall apply to each lot, parcel of real estate or building
which is occupied and used as a single-family residence. Said sprinkling rate
shall not apply to any premises which are partially or wholly used for
commercial or industrial purposes. In the event a portion of such premises
shall be used for commercial or industrial purposes, the owner shall have the
privilege of separating the water service so that the residential portion of
the premises is served through a separate meter and in such case the water
usage as registered by the water meter serving such portion of the premises
used for residential purposes would qualify under the sprinkling rate.
      (5)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the Town’s
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, the uses of water in
excess of 15,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of
the Town that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does
not and cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other
interested party shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters,
weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any adequater and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the Town for the determination of sewage discharge.
      (6)   The determination of suspended solids and five-day biochemical
oxygen demand, and ammonia or nitrogen contained in the waste shall be in
accordance with the latest copy of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes, as written by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation, and in conformance with Guidelines Establishing Test
Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants, Regulation C.F.R. part 136, published in
the Federal Register on 10-16-1973.
(2005 Code, § 100.08)
   (D)   (1)   The owner of any lot, parcel of real estate or building who
wishes to connect to the Town’s sewage works shall, prior to being permitted to
make such connection, pay a tap fee in the amount set by the Town Council. The
property owner will be responsible for the cost of construction of a local or
lateral sewer adequate to serve said property.
      (2)   A connection capacity fee or tap fee as provided in this chapter is
only valid for three months after said tap fee and/or connection capacity fee
is paid. If the connection is not made within said three month period of time
then the tap fee and/or connection capacity fee paid is forfeited to the Town
and a new tap fee and/or connection capacity fee shall be paid whenever the
work is to be done.
(2005 Code, § 100.09)
(Ord. 2003-5, passed 6-23-2005; Ord. 2005-6, passed 10-17-2005; Ord. 2007-2,
passed 5-21-2007; Ord. 2008-4, passed 9-15-2008)
§ 54.016 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The same meaning as defined in §
54.036 of this chapter.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of Walkerton, St. Joseph County, Indiana, or any
duly authorized officials acting on its behalf.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGES. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of “normal
domestic sewage”.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharge from industrial, trade or
business processes as distinguished from employee wastes or wastes from
sanitary conveniences.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NH3-N or AMMONIA NITROGEN AS NITROGEN. The same meaning as defined in §
54.036 of this chapter.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
      (1)   For the purpose of determining surcharges, shall mean waste water
or sewage having an average daily concentration as follows:
         (a)   BOD not more than 200 mg/l;
         (b)   S.S. not more than 105 mg/l; and
         (c)   NH3-N not more than 9.8 mg/l during the summer months of May,
June, July, August, September and October.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
   NPDES PERMIT or NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM. The same
meaning as defined in §
54.036 of this chapter.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Includes all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate waste water collection, transport and treatment
on a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform
with all related federal, state and local requirements. (These costs include
replacement.)
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges and
other identifiable charges, other than user charges, debt service charges and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity
and performance for which such works were designed and constructed.
   S.S. or SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The same meaning as defined in §
54.036 of this chapter.
   SEWAGE. The same meaning as defined in §
54.036 of this chapter.
   SEWER INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment
to this subchapter, which provides for recovery from industrial users of the
sewage works of a portion of the federal grant amount allocable to the
construction of sewage facilities for treating industrial waste pursuant to §
204(b) of Pub. Law No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1284(b).
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment to this subchapter,
which regulates the connection to and use of public and private sewers.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   TOWN. The Town of Walkerton, St. Joseph County, Indiana, acting by and
through the Town Council.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of such works pursuant to § 204(b) of
Pub. Law No. 92-500.
   USER CLASS. The division of waste water treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics and process or discharge similarities (i.e.,
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional and governmental in the user
charge system and as industrial and non-industrial in the industrial cost
recovery system).
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment listed in the Office of
Management and Budget’s Standard Industrial Classification Manual (1972
Edition) involved in a commercial enterprise, business or service which, based
on a determination by the Town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes
or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state or local governmental user of
the waste water treatment works.
      (3)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment listed in the “SICM” involved
in a social, charitable, religious and/or educational function which, based on
a determination by the Town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (4)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units and the like.
(2005 Code, § 100.05)
§ 54.017 USER CLASSES.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by said sewage works shall be
charged for the services provided. These charges are established for each user
class, as defined, in order that the sewage works shall recover, from each user
and user class, revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works
in terms of volume and load. User charges are levied to defray the cost of
operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment works. User
charges shall be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
   (B)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency, published in 40 C.F.R.
Replacement costs, which are recovered through the system of user charges,
shall be based upon the expected service life of the sewage works plant and
equipment.
   (C)   The various classes of users and treatment works for the purpose of
this subchapter, shall be as follows:
      (1)   Class I:
         (a)   Residential;
         (b)   Apartments/multiple-family dwellings (on a single meter);
         (c)   Commercial;
         (d)   Governmental;
         (e)   Institutional; and
         (f)   Wholesale residential.
      (2)   Class II: Industrial.
(2005 Code, § 100.06)
§ 54.018 BILLING METHOD.
   (A)   Sewer rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the
Town in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (B)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billings shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the Town for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by such tenant or tenants; provided that, such examination shall
be made at the Municipal Building during regular normal business hours.
   (C)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates or charges shall thereupon attach hereto. The time at which such rates or
charges shall be paid is now fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of the
bill.
(2005 Code, § 100.10)
§ 54.019 RATE REVIEW.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the costs of providing services to
the various users or user classes, the Town shall annually review such rates.
Such review shall include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the costs
associated with the treatment of excessive strength effluents from industrial
users, volume and delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to the various
users or user classes, the financial position of the sewage works and the
adequacy of its revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation and
maintenance, replacements, debt service requirements and capital improvements
to the waste treatment systems.
   (B)   Thereafter, on an annual basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the Town shall cause a similar review
to be made for the purpose of reviewing the fairness and equity of the rates
and charges for sewage services on a continuing basis. Said review shall be
conducted by officers or employees of the Town, or by a firm of certified
public accountants, or a firm of consulting engineers which firms shall have
experience in such reviews, or by such combination of officers, employees,
certified public accountants or engineers as the Town shall determine to be
best under the circumstances.
(2005 Code, § 100.11)
§ 54.020 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Town shall make and enforce such by-laws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
Town’s sewage system, pumping stations and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewage system, and
for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of such rates and
charges.
   (B)   The Town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the
Town’s sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works of said Town, or to require methods
affecting pre-treatment of said wastes to comply with the pre-treatment
standards included in the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System
(NPDES) permit issued to the sewage works.
(2005 Code, § 100.12)
USE REGULATIONS
§ 54.035 CONNECTIONS AND DISCHARGES GENERALLY.
   Regulating the connection to and use of public and private sewers and
drains, the installation and connection of building sewers and the discharge of
waters and wastes into the public wastewater system of the Town.
(2005 Code, § 100.50)
§ 54.036 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen expressed in mg/l,
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures in five days at 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
      (1)   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary
or industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys storm water
or other clear water drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. (Also called the HOUSE CONNECTION.)
      (1)   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary
or industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer which conveys storm water
or other clear water drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coli
designed to treat such pollutants, and in fact does remove such pollutants to a
substantial degree. The term “substantial degree” is not subject to precise
definition, but generally contemplates removals in the order of 80% or greater.
Minor incidental removals in the order of 10% to 30% are not considered
substantial. Examples of the additional pollutants which may be considered
COMPATIBLE include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Total organic carbon;
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
      (5)   Fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLI FORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of man and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the Town.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a wastewater system, including building
drains and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. (INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from inflow.)
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharge into a wastewater system, including building
drains and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to: roof leaders,
cellar, yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water
discharges, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross-
connections from storm sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters,
surface run-off, street wash waters or drainage. (INFLOW does not include, and
is distinguished from, infiltration.)
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the Town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public wastewater system.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of Pub. Law No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317
(b); or
      (4)   A combination with other contributing industries, either on a
treatment works or on the quality of effluent from the treatment works.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System for discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the
United States pursuant to § 402 of Pub. Law No. 92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined wastewater
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch lake or other body of surface or
ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. The same meaning as defined in the current sewage
rate ordinance.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of solution.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group discharging any wastewater to the Town’s municipal sewage treatment
works.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority
and will consist of the following increments.
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      (3)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which waste-water is carried under pressure.
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public wastewater
system at which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. The Public Works Director of the municipal sewage
works of the Town or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions,
(including polluted cooling water). The three most common types of sewage are
as follows.
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, storm water, infiltration and inflow carried to the wastewater
treatment facilities by a combined sewer.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment. (This shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water.)
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment and processes to collect, transport
and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent and
accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than ten minutes more than three times the average 24 hours’
concentration or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the
collection system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, or Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, ground water or unpolluted water
from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants,
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of Pub. Law No. 92-500.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 550°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(2005 Code, § 100.51)
§ 54.037 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
Town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said Town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, storm water, surface water, ground water,
roof run-off, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or
unpolluted industrial process water. The Town shall require the removal of
unpolluted waters from any wastewater collection or treatment facility if such
removal is cost-effective and is in the best interest of all users of those
facilities.
   (C)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use such sewers, however, without the specific
permission of the Town.
   (D)   No new connection shall be made unless there is capacity available in
all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains and the sewage treatment
plant including capacity for BOD and suspended solids.
   (E)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
Town, any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (F)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this subchapter and the
NPDES permit.
   (G)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (H)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the Town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
a public sanitary or combined sewer of the Town, is hereby required at his
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter, within 120 days after date of official notice to
do so; provided that, said public sewer is within 300 feet of the property
line.
(2005 Code, § 100.52)
§ 54.038 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
54.037 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit from the County Health
Department countersigned by the Public Works Director. The application for such
permit shall be made on a form furnished by the County Health Department, which
the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as are deemed necessary by the Public Works Director. A permit and
inspection fee as listed in the Fee Schedule in Ch. 35 of this code of
ordinances shall be paid to the Town at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Public
Works Director. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Public Works Director when the work is ready for final inspection, and before
any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24
hours of the receipt of notice by the Public Works Director.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Board of Health. No
permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than
20,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided herein, a direct connection
shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this subchapter, and any
septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be
abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the Town.
   (G)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 120 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
   (H)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(2005 Code, § 100.53)
§ 54.039 PERMITS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a
special form furnished by the said Town. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Inspector. A permit and inspection fee as
listed in the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances for a residential or commercial building
sewer permit and a fee as listed in the Fee Schedule for an industrial building
sewer permit shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the application
is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expense incident to the installation, maintenance and
connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the Town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   Separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard, or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the said Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
   (F)   (1)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a
building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, place of the pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the Town.
      (2)   In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface run-off or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the Town, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Public Works Director before installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building wastewater permit shall notify the said
Inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer, the connection shall be made under the supervision of the said
Inspector or his or her representative.
   (K)   All excavations for building wastewater installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the said Town.
(2005 Code, § 100.54)
§ 54.040 DISCHARGES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or greater than 9.0
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works; and
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
flashings, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the Public Works Director, that such wastes can harm either the
sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or
constitute a nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of
these wastes, the Public Works Director will give consideration to such factors
as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials or construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The
substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 and 150°F (0 and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Public Works Director;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Public Works Director for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Public Works Director as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Public Works Director in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.0;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and/or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs”, as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters of wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (C)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in division (B) above and which, in the
judgment of the Public Works Director, may have a deleterious effect upon the
sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Public Works
Director may:
         (a)   Require new industries or industries with significant increase
in discharges to submit information on wastewater characteristics and obtain
prior approval for discharges;
         (b)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the Town;
         (c)   Require pretreatment of such wastes to within the limits of
normal sewage, as defined;
         (d)   Require control or flow equalization of such wastes so as to
avoid any “slug” loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment
works; or
         (e)   Require payment of a surcharge on any-excessive flows or
loadings discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of
having capacity for and treating such wastes.
      (2)   If the Public Works Director permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the Public Works
Director and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances
and laws.
   (D)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (E)   When required by the Public Works Director, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Public Works Director. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his
or her expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and
accessible at all times. Agents of the Town, the State Water Pollution Control
Agencies, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing.
   (F)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole, except for applications for NPDES permits and
report thereof which shall be conducted in accordance with rules and
regulations adopted by the USEPA published in the Federal Register on 10-16-
1973 (40 C.F.R. part 122) and any subsequent revisions subject to approval by
the Town. In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb and property. (The particular analyses involved will determine
whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or
whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD
suspended solids analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls
whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab samples.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the Town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the Town for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern, at such rates as are compatible with the rate ordinance.
(2005 Code, § 100.55)
§ 54.041 PRETREATMENT.
   Pretreatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries prior
to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the rules and
regulations adopted by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(USEPA) and published in the Federal Register on 11-8-1973 (40 C.F.R. part
403), and Federal Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of
Pollutants published in the Federal Register on 10-16-1973 (40 C.F.R. part
136), in addition to any more stringent requirements established by the Town,
and any subsequent state or federal guidelines and rules and regulations.
(2005 Code, § 100.56)
§ 54.042 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment or control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the Town
and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until approval in
writing, is granted.
   (B)   Where such facilities are provided, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the owner at his
or her expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the Town to
determine that such facilities are being operated in conformance with
applicable federal, state and local laws and permits.
   (C)   The owner shall maintain operating records and shall submit to the
Town a monthly summary report of the character of the influent and effluent to
show the performance of the treatment facilities and for comparison against
Town monitoring records.
(2005 Code, § 100.57)
§ 54.043 UNPOLLUTED DISCHARGE.
   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems or
swimming pools, shall be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available, or
to a combined sewer approved by the Town. Where a storm sewer is not available,
discharge may be to a natural outlet approved by the Town and by the state.
Where a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural sewer is not available, such
unpolluted water may be discharged to a sanitary sewer pending written approval
by the Town.
(2005 Code, § 100.58)
§ 54.044 INDUSTRIAL COOLING WATER.
   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with §
54.043 of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 100.59)
§ 54.045 ANALYSIS OF DISCHARGES; CHARGES.
   (A)   The Town may require users of the treatment works, other than
residential users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flows
characteristics. Such measurements, tests and analysis shall be made at the
user’s expense. If made by the Town, an appropriate charge may be assessed to
the user at the option of the Town.
(2005 Code, § 100.60)
   (B)   The strength of wastewaters shall be determined, tor periodic
establishment of charges provided for in the current rate ordinance, from
samples taken at the aforementioned structure at any period of time and of such
duration and in such manner as the Town may elect or at any place mutually
agreed upon between the user and the Town. Appropriate charges for sampling and
analysis may be assessed to the user at the option of the Town. The results of
routine sampling and analysis by the user may also be used, for determination
of charges after verification by the Town.
(2005 Code, § 100.61)
§ 54.046 TRAPS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Town, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand
and other harmful ingredients; except that, such interceptors or traps will not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors or
traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Town and shall be located
so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. They
shall be construed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and
extreme changes in temperatures and shall be of substantial construction, is
gas-tight, water-tight and equipped with easily removable covers. Where
installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be maintained
by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient operation at all
times.
(2005 Code, § 100.62)
§ 54.047 NOTICES.
   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the Town of any
unusual flows or wastes that are discharged accidentally or otherwise to the
wastewater system.
(2005 Code, § 100.63)
§ 54.048 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   All provisions of this subchapter, and limits set herein, shall comply with
any applicable state and/or federal requirements now, or projected to be in
effect.
(2005 Code, § 100.64)
§ 54.049 TAMPERING.
   No authorized persons shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment
which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(2005 Code, § 100.65)
§ 54.050 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Public Works Director, Inspector and other duly authorized
employees of the Town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter. The Public Works Director or his or her representative shall have
no authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical,
oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways
or facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Public Works Director or duly authorized employees
of the Town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or
death to Town employees and the Town shall indemnify the company against loss
or damage to its property by Town employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required
in §
54.040(C) of this chapter.
   (C)   The Public Works Director and other duly authorized employees of the
Town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all private properties through which the Town holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in fall accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(2005 Code, § 100.60)
SEWER CONSTRUCTION
§ 54.065 CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Department of Sanitation
Systems.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building service sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
(2005 Code, § 102.01)
§ 54.066 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The owner or his or her agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the Town obtainable in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer. The
permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Public Works Director.
(2005 Code, § 102.02)
§ 54.067 INSPECTION FEE.
   An inspection fee shall be paid with the filing of the application for a
hook-on connection.
(2005 Code, § 102.03)
§ 54.068 GENERAL CONNECTION FEE.
   A hook-on fee, as listed in the Fee Schedule in Ch. 35 of this code of
ordinances, shall be charged for all connections made to the Town municipal
wastewater system, including any connections made to private contract sewers in
or out of the Town limits. The hook-on fee shall be paid prior to actual
connection to the Town wastewater system.
(2005 Code, § 102.04)
§ 54.069 MULTIPLE DWELLING CONNECTION FEE.
   In addition to the hook-on fee in §
54.068 of this chapter, in the case of multi-family dwelling units, a fee as
listed in the Fee Schedule in Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances, per unit,
shall be charged for each and every unit beginning with the second unit. The
hook-on fee for multi-family dwellings shall be paid prior to actual connection
to the Town wastewater system.
(2005 Code, § 102.05)
§ 54.070 HOOK-ON FEES.
   (A)   In the event that any application for hook-on fee requires definition
as to what category shall be applied for the payment of fees, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall refer such application to the Public Works Director for
determination and disposition.
(2005 Code, § 102.06)
   (B)   Any industrial, commercial or non-residential user shall pay hook-on
fees in lieu of the fee provided for in §
54.068 of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 102.07)
§ 54.071 INCREASE IN WATER METER SIZE.
   Present industrial, commercial or non-residential users now receiving
sanitary wastewater service who apply for a larger water meter than they now
have shall pay for the difference in cost at the time of the filing of the
application between the size of the meter they now have and the one applied
for, according to the charges set forth in §
54.070 of this chapter. No credit shall be given in the case of a downward size
revision.
(2005 Code, § 102.08)
§ 54.072 OWNER TO PAY INSTALLATION COST.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building service sewer shall be borne by the owner.
(2005 Code, § 102.09)
§ 54.073 OWNER TO INDEMNIFY TOWN FOR LOSS.
   The owner of the property shall indemnify the Town from any loss or damage
that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building service sewer.
(2005 Code, § 102.10)
§ 54.074 EACH BUILDING TO HAVE SEWER CONNECTION.
   A separate and independent building service sewer shall be provided for
every building. However, where one building stands at the rear of another on
any interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the building
service sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building service sewer.
(2005 Code, § 102.11)
§ 54.075 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building service sewers may be used in connection with new buildings
only when they are found on examination and tested by the Public Works Director
to meet all the requirements of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 102.12)
§ 54.076 SIZE AND SLOPE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The size and slope of the building service sewer shall be subject to
the approval of the Public Works Director, but in no event shall the diameter
be less than six inches.
   (B)   The slope of a six-inch pipe shall be not less than one-eighth inch
per foot.
(2005 Code, § 102.13)
§ 54.077 SERVICE SEWER MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No building service sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three
feet of any bearing wall which might thereby be weakened, whenever possible the
building service sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation below
the basement floor.
   (B)   The building service sewer shall be laid at a depth which will afford
protection from frost.
   (C)   The building service sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in
straight alignment insofar as possible. Changes in direction with respect to
the building service sewer shall be made only with properly curved pipe and
fittings.
(2005 Code, § 102.14)
§ 54.078 LACK OF GRAVITY FLOW.
   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity
flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall be lifted
by approved artificial means and discharged to the building service sewer.
(2005 Code, § 102.15)
§ 54.079 OPEN TRENCH EXCAVATIONS REQUIRED.
   All excavations required for the installation of a building service sewer
shall be open trench work, unless otherwise approved by the Public Works
Director.
(2005 Code, § 102.16)
§ 54.080 JOINTS GENERALLY.
   All joints and connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight.
(2005 Code, § 102.17)
§ 54.081 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR TO SUPERVISE CONNECTION.
   The applicant for a building service sewer permit shall notify the Public
Works Director when the building service sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection of the building service sewer to
the public sewer shall be made under the supervision of the Public Works
Director or his or her representative.
(2005 Code, § 102.18)
§ 54.082 EXCAVATION SAFETY PRECAUTIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installations shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
(2005 Code, § 102.19)
§ 54.083 DAMAGE TO PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Town.
(2005 Code, § 102.20)
§ 54.084 COMMERCIAL HAULERS.
   (A)   A person who is a licensed commercial industrial waste hauler may
discharge compatible pollutants to the wastewater treatment plant at a time and
place and in such amounts as permitted by the Public Works Director. Wastewater
so received must have been generated from within St. Joseph County. Application
to the Public Works Director and approval must be secured prior to any actual
dumping along with payment of dump fees as listed in the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A listing of all wastes and source information must be submitted with
each application.
(2005 Code, § 102.22)
DISCHARGE OF WASTEWATERS
§ 54.095 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (Pub. Law No. 92-
500) also known as the Clean Water Act of 1977, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq. (Pub. Law No. 95-217); as well as any guidelines, limitations and
standards promulgated by the Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to the
Act.
      APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any pretreatment limit or prohibitive
standard (federal and/or local) contained in this subchapter deemed to be the
most restrictive which non-domestic users will be required to comply with.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director in an NPDES state with an approved state
pretreatment program and the Administrator of the EPA in a non-NPDES state or
NPDES state without an approved state pretreatment program.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER. An authorized
representative of an industrial user may be:
         (a)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice-
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
         (b)   A general partner or proprietor, if the industrial user is a
partnership or proprietorship, respectively; and
         (c)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated
above, if such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
      AVERAGE MONTHLY DISCHARGE LIMITATION. The highest allowable average of
“daily discharges” over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all daily
discharges measured during a calendar month divided by the number of daily
discharges measured during that month.
      BENEFICIAL USES. These uses include, but are not limited to, domestic,
municipal, agricultural and industrial use, power generation, recreation,
aesthetic enjoyment, navigation, and the preservation and enhancement of fish,
wildlife and other aquatic resources or reserves, and other uses, either
tangible or intangible, as specified by state or federal law.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. Of sewage, sewage effluent, polluted
waters or industrial wastes shall mean the quantity of dissolved oxygen in
milligrams per liter required during stabilization of the decomposable organic
matter by aerobic biochemical action under standard laboratory procedures for
five days at 20°C. The laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance
with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
      BOARD. It is the governing body of the sewage system of the Town, which
is a public utility.
      BUILDING OR HOUSED DRAIN. The lowest horizontal piping of building
drainage system which receives the discharge from waste, and other drainage
pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to a point approximately
five feet outside the foundation wall of the building.
         (a)   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain which conveys
sanitary or industrial sewage only.
         (b)   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys storm
water or other clear water drainage, but no wastewater.
      BUILDING FOR HOUSE/LATERAL SEWER. The extension from the building drain
to the sewage system or other place of disposal.
         (a)   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys
sanitary or industrial sewage only.
         (b)   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer which conveys storm
water or other clear water drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
      CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National categorical pretreatment standards or
pretreatment standard.
      CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or COD. Of sewage, sewage effluent, polluted
waters or industrial wastes is a measure of the oxygen equivalent of that
portion of the organic matter in a sample that is susceptible to oxidation by a
strong chemical oxidant. The laboratory determination shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
      COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH
and fecal coli form bacteria, plus additional pollutants if the treatment works
was designed to treat such pollutants, and in fact does remove such pollutants
to a substantial degree. The term “substantial degree” is not subject to
precise definition, but generally contemplates removals in the order of 80% or
greater. Minor incidental removals in the order of 10% to 30% are not
considered substantial. Examples of the additional pollutants which may be
compatible include:
         (a)   Chemical oxygen demand;
         (b)   Total organic carbon;
         (c)   Phosphorous and phosphorous compounds;
         (d)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
         (e)   Fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
      COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A composite sample should contain a minimum of eight
discrete samples taken at equal time intervals over the compositing period or
proportional to the flow rate over the compositing period. More than the
minimum number of discrete samples will be required where the wastewater
loading is highly variable.
      DAILY DISCHARGE. Discharge of a pollutant “measured during a calendar day
or any 24-hour period that reasonably represents the calendar for purposes of
sampling”.
      DEPARTMENT. The Town’s wastewater treatment plant, including the
wastewater collection system.
      DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Wastewater from typical residential users and having
pollutant characteristics of not greater than 250 mg/l BOD and 250 mg/
l suspended solids.
      EASEMENT. An acquired legal right of the specific use of land owned by
others.
      EFFLUENT. Water, together with any wastes that may be present, flowing
out of a drain, sewer, receptacle or outlet.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
      FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal
tract of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator
of pollution.
      FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility.
      FOREMAN. Administrative head of sewer maintenance.
      GARBAGE. Any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking or dispensing of
food and from handling, storage or sale of produce.
      GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time
basis with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration
of time.
      GREASE AND OIL. A group of substances including hydrocarbons, fatty
acids, soaps, fats, waxes, oils or any other material that is extracted by a
solvent from an acidified sample and that is not volatilized during the
laboratory test procedures. GREASES AND OILS are defined by the method of their
determination in accordance with Standard Methods.
      GREASE AND OIL OF ANIMAL AND VEGETABLE ORIGIN. Substances of
biodegradable nature such as are discharged by meatpacking, vegetable oil and
fat industries, food processors, canneries, restaurants.
      GREASE AND OIL OF MINERAL ORIGIN. Substances that are less readily
biodegradable than grease and oil of animal or vegetable origin; and are
derived from a petroleum source. Such substances include machinery lubricating
oils, gasoline station wastes, petroleum refinery wastes, storage depot wastes.
      GROUNDED (SHREDDED) GARBAGE. Garbage that is shredded to such a degree
that all particles will be carried freely in suspension under the conditions
normally prevailing in the sewage system, with no particle being greater than
one-half inch in dimension.
      HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks, such as chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, vacuum pump trucks and the like.
      INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
      INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial or commercial establishment manufacturing
or processing facility that discharges industrial waste to a publicly owned
treatment works.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or form of
energy discharged, permitted to flow or escape from an industrial,
manufacturing, commercial or business process or from the development, recovery
or processing of any natural resource carried on by a person and shall further
mean any waste from an industrial user.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTE PERMIT. A permit to deposit or discharge industrial
waste into any sanitary sewer as issued by the POTW.
      INFILTRATION. The water entering a wastewater system, including
wastewater service connections, from the ground, through such means as, but not
limited to defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls.
      INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration
and inflow without distinguishing the source.
      INFLOW. The water discharged into a wastewater system, including service
connections from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard and area drains, foundation drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole
covers, cross-connections from storm sewers and combined sewers, catch basins,
storm waters, surface run-off, street wash waters or drainage. (INFLOW does not
include, and is distinguished from, infiltration.)
      INFLUENT. The water, together with any wastes that may be present,
flowing into a drain, sewer, receptacle or outlet.
      INSPECTOR. A person authorized by the Town.
      INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment
processes or operations which contributes to a violation of any requirement of
the Town’s NPDES permit and as defined in 40 C.F.R.§ 403.3(k), 1-28-1981,
Federal Register 403.3(i). The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or
disposal by the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345) or
any criteria, guideline or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste
Disposal Act (SWDA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the Clean Air Act, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§
2601 et seq., or more stringent state criteria (including those contained in
any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 6941 et seq.) applicable to the method of disposal or use employed
by the POTW.
      MAJOR CONTRIBUTOR. A contributor that:
         (a)   Has a flow of more than 25,000 gallons per average workday;
         (b)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined
in § 307 of the Federal Act;
         (c)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
         (d)   Has in its wastes toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to § 307
of the Act, of state statutes and rules; or
         (e)   Is found by the Town, state control agency or the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have significant impact, either singly
or in combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater
treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality or air
emissions generated by the system.
      MAXIMUM DAILY DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS. Highest allowable daily discharge.
      NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C.§ 1317(b) and (c)) which
applies to a specific category (SIC No.) of industrial users and specifies
quantities or concentrations of pollutants which may be discharged.
      NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE
STANDARD. Any regulation developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the Act
and 40 C.F.R. § 403.5 and includes specific prohibitions or limits as developed
by a POTW, either as a requirement of an approved POTW pretreatment program or
an NPDES permit.
      NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
      NEW SOURCE. Any source, the construction of which is commenced after the
publication of proposed regulations prescribing a § 307(c) (33 U.S.C. § 1317
(c)) categorical pretreatment standard which will be applicable to such source,
if such standard is thereafter promulgated within 120 days of proposal in the
Federal Register. Where the standard is promulgated later than 120 days after
proposal, a NEW SOURCE means any source, the construction of which is commenced
after the date of promulgation of the standard.
      NPDES PERMIT. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit
setting forth conditions for the discharge of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant to § 402 of
Pub. Law No. 95-217, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
      NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to health or offensive to the
senses or an obstruction to the free use of property so as to interfere with
the comfort or enjoyment of life or property.
      PASS THROUGH. The discharge of pollutants by an industrial user through
the POTW into navigable waters in quantities or concentrations which are a
cause of, or significantly contribute to, a violation of any requirement of the
POTW’s NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) and as defined in 40 C.F.R.§ 403.3(p).
      PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, partnership, co-
partnership, joint stock company, trust, estate, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency, the state, the United States of
America, or other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine; the singular shall
include the plural where indicated by the context.
      pH. The logarithm (to the base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration of a solution expressed in gram atoms per liter of solution.
      POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock sand cellar
dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged into water.
      POLLUTION. An alteration of the quality of the waters of the state by
waste to a degree which unreasonably affects such waters for beneficial uses or
facilities which serve such beneficial uses. The human-made or human-induced
alteration of the chemical, physical, biological and radiological integrity of
water.
      PREMISES. A parcel of real estate including any single improvement
thereon which is determined by the Town to be a single user for purposes of
receiving, using and payment for service. Any additional improvement on the
same parcel of real estate which is determined by the Town to be a user shall
be separately connected to the sewerage for the purpose of receiving, using and
payment for service.
      PRE-TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination
of pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction or alteration
can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, process changes
or by other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(d); and shall
include all applicable rules and regulations contained in the Code of Federal
Regulations as published in the Federal Register, under § 307 of Pub. Law No.
95-217, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317, under regulation 40 C.F.R. part 403 pursuant to
the Act, and amendments.
      PRE-TREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on
an industrial user.
      PROPER OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Procedures executed in a prudent, cost-
effective and workmanlike manner which achieve the highest and/or required
effluent quality of industrial discharge attainable in conformance with the
best available technology and practices. PROPER OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
requirements include avoidance of operational error, adherence to manual
instructions, preventive maintenance, avoidance of careless or improper
operation, neat accurate sampling, analysis and records retention; storage of
process chemicals, lubricants, solvents and the like, in a safe and organized
manner, avoidance of accidental spillage, keeping operating logs and any other
activities which produce the desired effluent quality.
      PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. The administrative head of the wastewater
treatment plant and collection system.
      PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by §
212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is owned in this instance by the Town.
This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant, but does not include pipes, sewers or other conveyances not
connected to a facility providing treatment. For the purposes of this
subchapter, POTW shall also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the
POTW from persons outside the Town who are, by contract or agreement with the
Town, users of the Town’s POTW. Also known as SEWAGE WORKS.
      POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
      RECEIVING STREAM. The watercourse, stream or body of water receiving the
waters finally discharged from the wastewater treatment plant.
      SANITARY SEWAGE. The waste from water closets, urinals, lavatories,
sinks, bathtubs, showers, basement drains, household laundries, garage floor
drains, drinking fountains, stable floor drains and all other water-carried
waste, except industrial wastes.
      SEWAGE SYSTEM. The network of publicly owned sewers and appurtenances
used for collecting, transporting and pumping wastewater to the wastewater
treatment plant.
      SEWAGE WORKS. Sewers, wastewater treatment plant, sewage system and any
associated structures or equipment. Also known as POTW.
      SEWER. A pipe or conduit laid for carrying wastewater or other liquids.
         (a)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which carries storm, surface, ground
water runoff and wastewater.
         (b)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting property
have equal rights and which is controlled by public authority, including the
following elements.
            1.   COLLECTION SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
            2.   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to
transport wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
            3.   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under
pressure.
            4.   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewage
system at which wastewater is pumped to higher level.
         (c)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries wastewater and to which
storm, surface and ground waters and unpolluted industrial wastewater are not
intentionally admitted.
         (d)   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm, surface and ground
water drainage, but excludes wastewater.
      SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial or industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment
plant or air pollution control facility or any other waste having similar
characteristics and effects as defined in standards issued under §§ 402 and 405
of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1342 and 1345 and in the applicable
requirements under §§ 3001, 3004 and 4004 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (Pub.
Law No. 94-580), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6921, 6924 and 6944.
      SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than five minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
of flow during normal operation and shall adversely affect the sewage works.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
      STANDARD METHODS. Shall mean the laboratory procedures set forth in the
latest edition, at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, prepared and published jointly by the
American Public Health Association, the American Water Works Association and
the Water Pollution Control Federation.
      STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
      SURCHARGE. A charge for services in addition to the basic service charge.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids which either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be expressed in milligrams per
liter. Quantitative determination shall be made in accordance with procedures
set forth in Standard Methods.
      TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
      TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse effects such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological
manifestations, as defined in standards issued pursuant to the Clean Water Act
(Pub. Law No. 94-217), being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      TOXICANT. A substance that is known or suspected carcinogens, mutagens or
teratogens and substances present in industrial discharges with known toxic
effects on human and aquatic life which is among the list of elements and
compounds known as “priority pollutants” developed under the Clean Water Act.
      UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to sanitary sewers
and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
      UPSET. An exceptional incident in which a discharger unintentionally and
temporarily is in a state of non-compliance with the standards set forth in
this subchapter due to factors beyond the reasonable control of the discharger,
and excluding non-compliance to the extent caused by operational error,
improperly designed pretreatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance or
careless or improper operation thereof.
      USER. Any person that discharges, causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the sewage system.
      USER CLASSES. The Industrial class shall include any user, identified in
the Standard Industrial classification Manual of 1972, Office of Management and
Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following divisions: Division A
-Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing; Division B - Mining; Division D -
Manufacturing; Division E - Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Services; and Division I - Services. The non-industrial class shall
include all users whose wastes are segregated domestic wastes or wastes from
sanitary conveniences where regular domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences where regular domestic wastes are those generated by normal
domestic activity.
      VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 550°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
      WASTE. Includes sanitary sewage and any and all other waste substances,
liquid, solid, gaseous or radioactive, associated with human habitation, or of
human or animal origin, or from any producing, processing, manufacturing or
industrial operation of whatever nature, including such waste placed within
containers or whatever nature prior to, and for purposes of disposal.
      WASTEWATER. The water-carried waste from residences, business buildings,
institutions and industrial establishments, singular or in any combination,
together with such ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
      WASTEWATER CONSTITUENTS AND CHARACTERISTICS. The individual chemical,
physical, bacteriological and radiological parameters, including volume, flow
rate and such other parameters that serve to define, classify or measure the
contents, quality, quantity and strength of wastewater.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures
used for treating wastewater.
      WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
      WATERS OF THE STATE. Any water, surface or underground, within the
boundaries of Indiana, except confined waters in sewers, tanks and the like.
   (B)   Word usage.
      (1)   The use of the word shall indicates a mandatory condition.
      (2)   The use of the word may indicates a discretionary condition.
   (C)   Abbreviations. The following abbreviations shall have the designated
meanings:
      40 C.F.R. part 403. General Pretreatment Regulations, as published in the
Federal Register on 6-26-1978 and on 1-28-1981 and in subsequent amendments
thereto.
      ASTM. American Society for Testing Materials.
      BOD. Biochemical oxygen demand.
      C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
      COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
      EPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
      ISBH. Indiana State Board of Health.
      l. Liter.
      mg. Milligrams.
      mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
      NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
      O&M. Operation and maintenance.
      POTW. Publicly owned treatment works.
      RCRA. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (Pub. Law No. 94-580), being
42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
      SIC. Standard Industrial Classification.
      SWDA. Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
      TSS. Total suspended solids.
      U.S.C. United States Code.
      WPCF. Water Pollution Control Federation.
(2005 Code, § 102.21)
§ 54.096 OBJECTIVES AND PURPOSES.
   (A)   This subchapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the
publicly owned treatment works (POTW) and enables the Town to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws required by the Clean Water Act of 1977,
being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. and the General Pretreatment Regulations of 40
C.F.R. part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipality
wastewater system which will interfere with the normal operation of the system
or contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent introduction of pollutants into the POTW which do not
receive adequate treatment in the POTW, and which will pass through the system
into receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
system; and
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludge from the system.
   (C)   (1)   This subchapter provides for the regulation of direct and
indirect dischargers to the municipal wastewater system through the issuance of
permits to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general
requirements for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement
activities, requires user reporting, assumes that existing customer’s capacity
will not be pre-empted and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable
distribution of costs resulting from the program established herein.
      (2)   This subchapter does not provide for the recovery of operations,
maintenance or replacement costs of the POTW or the costs associated with the
construction of collection and treatment systems used by industrial
dischargers, in proportion to their use of the POTW, which are the subject of a
separate ordinance.
      (3)   This subchapter shall apply to the Town and to persons outside the
Town who are, by contract or agreement with the Town, users of the Town POTW.
      (4)   This subchapter is a supplement to Ord. 4-78 as amended.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Public Works Director of
the Town’s wastewater utilities (POTW) shall administer, implement and enforce
the provisions of this subchapter.
(2005 Code, § 102.21)
§ 54.097 GENERAL REGULATIONS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or
indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the operation
or performance of the POTW. These general prohibitions apply to all such users
of a POTW whether or not the user is subject to national categorical
pretreatment standards or any other national, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements.
      (2)   A user may not contribute the following substances to any POTW:
         (a)   Any liquids, solids or gases which, by reason of their nature or
quantity, are, or may be sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances either alone or by interaction with other substances to cause fire
or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the POTW or to the operation
of the POTW. At no time, shall two successive readings on an explosion hazard
meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the
system) be more than 10% of the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter.
Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene,
naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes,
peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides
and any other substances which the Town, the state or EPA has notified the user
is a fire hazard or a hazard to the system. Solid or viscous substances which
may cause obstruction to the flow in a sewer or other interference with the
operation of the wastewater treatment facilities such as, but not limited to:
grease, garbage with particles greater than one-half inch in any dimension,
animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings,
entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or
marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent
grains, spent hops, wastepaper, wood, plastics, gas, tar, asphalt residues,
residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud or glass
grinding or polishing wastes, butchers offal or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing interference with the proper operation of the
sewage system or the wastewater treatment plant;
         (b)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 6.0, unless the POTW is
specifically designed to accommodate such wastewater, or wastewater having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and/or personnel of the POTW. Any wastewater containing toxic
pollutants in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
pollutants, to injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a toxic effect in the
receiving waters of the POTW, or to exceed the limitation set forth in a
categorical pretreatment standard. A toxic pollutant shall include, but not be
limited to, any pollutant identified pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act. Any
noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either singly or by
interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public nuisance or
hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers for
maintenance and repair. Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its
limits and restrictions set forth in the Town’s NPDES permit. Any substance
with objectionable color not removed in the treatment process, such as, but not
limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions. Any wastewater having a
temperature which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant
resulting in interference; but in no case, wastewater with a temperature at the
introduction into the POTW which exceeds 40°C (104°F) or any liquid or vapor
discharged into the wastewater system having a temperature higher than 150°F
(65°C). Any unpolluted water including, but not limited to, non-contact cooling
water;
         (c)   Any waters or wastes containing acid metallic pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions; and
         (d)   Any toxic radioactive isotopes of such half life or
concentration as exceeds limits established by federal regulations. The
radioactive isotopes I 131 and P 32 used in hospitals are not prohibited, if
they are properly diluted before being discharged into the sewage system. Any
waters or wastes containing any toxic substances in quantities that are
sufficient to interfere with the biochemical processes of the wastewater
treatment plant, that will pass through the plant into the receiving stream in
amounts exceeding the standards set by federal, interstate, state or other
competent authority having jurisdiction, or contaminate sewage sludge, that
contain iron or any other toxic ions, compounds or substances in concentrations
or amounts exceeding the limits established from time to time by the Town that
exert an excessive chlorine requirement on the POTW. Any unusual volume of flow
or concentration of wastes constituting “slugs” that for a duration of five
minutes or more have a concentration of flow or more than five times the
average concentration of the BOD, the suspended solids or flow of the
customer’s sewage discharged during a 24-hour period of normal operation and
are released in a single extraordinary discharge event which causes
interference to the POTW. Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids or
dissolved solids of such character and quantity that unusual provision,
attention and expense would be required to handle such materials at the
wastewater treatment plant, its pumping station or other facilities. Any
substance which may cause the POTWs effluent or any other product of the POTW
such as residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for reclamation and reuse
or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case, shall a substance
discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in non-compliance with sludge use
or disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under § 405 of the
Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1345; any criteria, guidelines or
regulations affecting sludge use or disposal developed pursuant to the Solid
Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the Clean Air Act, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§
2601 et seq., or state criteria applicable to the sludge management method
being used. Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a
public nuisance.
      (3)   When the Public Works Director determines that a user(s) is
contributing to the POTW, any of the above enumerated substances in such
amounts as to interfere with the operation of the POTW, or Public Works
Director, the POTW shall:
         (a)   Advise the user(s) of the impact of the contribution on the
POTW; and
         (b)   Require pretreatment and/or procedures to correct the
interference with the POTW and eliminate the prohibited discharge.
   (B)   Specific pollutant limitations. No person shall discharge wastewater
containing in excess of the following concentrations at the point(s) where such
wastewater enters the sewage system based upon a 24-hour by-flow composite
sample and upon the average monthly discharge. Multiple industrial wastewater
discharges from a permitted facility may be combined in a flow weighted manner
to determine compliance with the following limitations for a 24-hour composite
sample.
Maximum Concentration (mg/1) after 6-30-1984 Daily Maximum
Maximum Concentration (mg/1) after 6-30-1984                Daily Maximum
Cadmium, total                                              0.75
Chromium, total                                             3.0
Copper, total                                               0.6
Cyanide, total by distillation                              1.0
Lead, total                                                 0.4
Mercury, total                                              0.001
Nickel, total                                               3.0
Silver, total                                               0.24
Zinc, total                                                 3.0
pH                                                          6.0 - 9.0
Total toxic organics (TTO) volatile, acid extractable, base 2.13
neutral extractable, pesticides 1 PCBs
Phenols, total                                              1.0
Oil & grease (animal or vegetable origin)                   200
Oil & grease (mineral or petroleum origin)                  100
TSS                                                         250
BOD5                                                        250
 
   (C)   Federal categorical pretreatment standards. Upon the promulgation of
the federal categorical pretreatment standards for a particular industrial
subcategory, the federal standard, if more stringent than limitations imposed
under this subchapter for sources in that subcategory, shall immediately
supersede the limitations imposed under this subchapter. The Public Works
Director shall notify all affected users of the applicable reporting
requirements under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12.
   (D)   Modification of federal categorical pretreatment standards. Where the
POTW achieves consistent removal of pollutants limited by federal pretreatment
standards, the POTW may apply to the approval authority for modification of
specific limits in the federal pretreatment standards. CONSISTENT REMOVAL shall
mean the average of the lowest 50% of the removals measured according to 40
C.F.R. § 403.7(b) and shall mean a reduction in amount of a pollutant in the
POTWs effluent or alternation of the nature of a pollutant during treatment at
the POTW when measured according to the procedures set forth in 40 C.F.R. §
403.7 of General Pretreatment Regulations for Existing and New Sources of
Pollution, promulgated pursuant to the Act. The POTW may then modify pollutant
discharge limits in the federal pretreatment standards if the requirements
contained in 40 C.F.R. § 403.7, are fulfilled and prior approval from the
approval authority is obtained.
   (E)   POTW right of revision. The POTW reserves the right to establish by
ordinance more stringent limitations or requirements on discharges to the
wastewater disposal system if deemed necessary to comply with the objectives
presented in §
54.096 of this chapter.
   (F)   Excessive discharge. No user shall ever increase the use of process
water or, in any way, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete
substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations
contained in the federal categorical pretreatment standards, or in any other
pollutant-specific limitation developed by the Town or state. (Comment:
dilution may be an acceptable means of complying with some of the prohibitions
set forth in division (A) above (e.g., the pH prohibition)). The POTW may
impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to meet the
pretreatment standards or requirements of this subchapter.
   (G)   Accidental discharges. Each user shall provide protection from
accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by
this subchapter. Where necessary facilities to prevent accidental discharge of
prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained at the owner or user’s
own cost and expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and operating
procedures to provide this protection shall be submitted to the POTW for
review, and shall be approved by the POTW before construction of the facility.
No user who commences contribution to the POTW after the effective date of this
subchapter shall be permitted to introduce pollutants into the system until
accidental discharge procedures have been approved by the POTW. Review and
approval of such plans and operating procedures shall not relieve the
industrial user from the responsibility to modify the user’s facility as
necessary to meet the requirements of this subchapter. In the case of an
accidental discharge, it is the responsibility of the user to immediately
telephone and notify the POTW of the incident. The notification shall include
location of the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume and
corrective actions.
   (H)   Written notice. Within seven days following an accidental discharge,
the user shall submit to the Public Works Director a detailed written report
describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user
to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the
user of any expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a
result of damage to the POTW, fish kills or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil
penalties or other liability which may be imposed by this section or other
applicable law.
   (I)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user’s bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call
in the event of a dangerous discharge. Employers shall insure that all
employees who may cause or suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are
advised of the emergency notification procedure.
   (J)   State requirements. State requirements and limitations on discharges
shall apply in any case where they are more stringent than federal requirements
and limitations or those in this subchapter or Ord. 4-78.
   (K)   Responsibility for obstructing or damaging sewers. If a public sewer
becomes obstructed or damaged because any of the aforementioned substances were
improperly discharged, the person or persons responsible for such discharge
shall be billed and shall pay for the expenses incurred by the POTW in cleaning
out, repairing or rebuilding the sewer.
   (L)   Special agreements. No statement contained in this section shall be
construed as prohibiting any special agreement or arrangement between the POTW
and any person whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may
be accepted by the POTW for treatment whether with or without pretreatment;
provided that, such agreement does not violate national categorical
pretreatment standards for the specific category of industrial user; provided
that, there is no impairment of the functioning of the sewage works by reason
of the admission of such wastes and provided that no extra costs are incurred
by the POTW without recompense by the person. All or certain industrial wastes
shall be excluded when conditions are such that NPDES permit restrictions
cannot be met. Surcharges shall be imposed by the POTW for any compatible
pollutant discharged in excess of the limits set forth herein. No new
connection shall be made unless there is flow capacity available in all down
stream sewers, lift stations, force mains and the wastewater treatment plant
including capacity for BOD and SS.
(2005 Code, § 102.21)
§ 54.098 ADMISSIBLE INDUSTRIAL WASTES; PRIOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The admission into the public sewers for any water or wastes
having:
         (a)   A five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 250 parts per
million by weight;
         (b)   Containing more than 250 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids;
         (c)   Containing any quantity or substances having the characteristics
described in §
54.097(A) of this chapter; or
         (d)   Having an average daily flow greater than 25,000 gallons shall
be subject to the review and approval of the Public Works Director.
      (2)   Where necessary in the opinion of the Public Works Director, the
owner shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may
be necessary to:
         (a)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 250 parts per million
and suspended solids to 250 parts per million by weight;
         (b)   Reduce the objectionable characteristics or constituents to
within maximum limits provided in §
54.097 of this chapter; and
         (c)   Provide control or flow equalization of such wastes described in
300 so as to avoid any “slug” loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to
the sewage works.
   (B)   Pretreatment facilities. When, after making such a review, the Public
Works Director concludes that, before the person discharges his or her wastes
into the public sewers, he or she must modify or eliminate those constituents
which would be harmful to the structures, processes or operations of the sewage
works or injurious to health, then the person shall either modify his or her
wastes at the point of origin or shall provide and operate at his or her own
expense such preliminary treatment or processing facilities as may be
determined to be necessary to render his or her wastes acceptable for admission
to the public sewers. Appropriate pretreatment technology includes control
equipment, such as equalization tanks or facilities, for protection against
“slugs” that might interfere with or otherwise be incompatible with the sewage
works. Where there is reason to believe that the use of equalization tanks or
other facilities which have potential for dilution is resulting in dilution,
the Public Works Director may impose mass limitations on the user employing
such tanks or other facilities.
   (C)   Prior approval of pretreatment facilities. Plans, specifications and
other pertinent information relating to proposed preliminary treatment and
processing facilities shall be submitted to the POTW through the Public Works
Director’s office for examination and approval and no construction of such
facilities shall begin until the POTW has given its written approval. Such
approval shall not exempt the person from the obligation to make further
reasonable adaptations of such facilities when such adaptations of such
facilities prove necessary to secure the results desired. Plans, specifications
and other pertinent information shall also be submitted to the Stream Pollution
Control Board for approval in accordance with Stream Pollution Control Board
Res. 330 I.A.C. 3.1-1 through 330 I.A.C. 3.1-3 (formerly No. SPC 15).
   (D)   Operation of pretreatment facilities. When such preliminary treatment
facilities are provided, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operating condition by the person at his or her own expense and
shall be subject to periodic inspection by the Public Works Director. The
person shall maintain suitable operating records and shall submit to the Public
Works Director such monthly summary reports of the character of the influent
and effluent as the latter may prescribe. The user shall notify the Public
Works Director immediately of any slug loading, as defined herein, and in
accordance with §§
54.100 and
54.999 of this chapter.
   (E)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors. Grease, oil and sand interceptors
shall be provided when, in the opinion of the Public Works Director, they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in
excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients;
except that, such interceptors shall not be required for private living
quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity
approved by the Public Works Director, and shall be located as to be readily
and easily accessible for inspection, and kept clean at all times. Grease and
oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of
substantial construction, water-tight and equipped with easily removable covers
which when bolted in place, shall be gas-tight and water-tight and capable of
the maximum flow rate of the pipe installed therein.
(2005 Code, § 102.21)
§ 54.099 CONTROL OF ADMISSIBLE INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   (A)   Major contributor permits.
      (1)   Any industrial user and any other user on demand of the Public
Works Director shall within 90 days of notice provide the POTW with sufficient
information to determine if that user be a major contributor, and shall be
required to obtain a permit which describes the wastewater constituents and
characteristics allowed and which sets forth the applicable surveillance
schedule and the monitoring requirements the user shall be subject to in order
to discharge into the POTW’s sewage system. A major contributor permit shall be
valid for four years unless process changes are made that, in the opinion of
the Public Works Director, alter the wastewater constituents and
characteristics significantly. In the event of such a change, a new application
shall be filed accordingly. A permit shall be renewed by new application at the
end of four years. The reapplication for renewal will be subject to normal
application fees in force at reapplication. Nothing in a major contributor
permit shall constitute an exception to the prohibitions and limitations on
wastewater admissibility as set forth herein. Major contributors are subject to
all applicable fees, rates and charges set forth in this subchapter.
      (2)   In support of the application, the user shall submit, in units and
terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
         (a)   Name, address and location, (if different from the address);
         (b)   SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
         (c)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including, but not
limited to, those mentioned in §
54.097 of this chapter as determined by a reliable analytical laboratory;
sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures
established by the EPA pursuant to § 304(g) of the Clean Water Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 1314 and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136, as amended;
         (d)   Time and duration of contribution;
         (e)   Average daily and three-minute peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any, in gallons per day.
All flows shall be measured by verifiable techniques unless cost and
feasibility prevent such measurement. In such case, other techniques may be
used if approved by the Public Works Director.
         (f)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all sewers, outfalls, storm sewers, wastewater connections,
inspection manholes, sampling chambers and appurtenances by the size, location
and elevation;
         (g)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
         (h)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in
the discharge which are limited by any Town, state or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user
to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
         (i)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet
the more stringent of Town, state or federal pretreatment standards; the
shortest schedule by which the user will provide such additional pretreatment.
The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance
date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. The following
conditions shall apply to this schedule.
            1.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form
of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (e.g., hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction and the
like).
            2.   No increment referred to in division (A)(2)(i)1. above shall
exceed nine months for any single step directed toward compliance.
            3.   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Public Works Director including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with
the increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which
it expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay, and
the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established. In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such
progress reports to the Public Works Director.
         (j)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
         (k)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
         (l)   Number and type of employees, and hours of operation of plant
and proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
         (m)   Description of accidental spill prevention control plan;
         (n)   Any other information as may be deemed by the POTW to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application; and
         (o)   Permit application shall be signed by a principal executive
officer of the user.
      (3)   The POTW will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may
require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data
furnished, the POTW may issue within 30 days of the date of acceptance, a
wastewater contribution permit subject to terms and conditions provided herein.
Within the 30-day period, the industrial user may review a draft permit and
provide comments to the POTW. The POTW may require compliance by industries in
the non-major classification which have a potential for discharging toxicants
and prohibited substances, by issuance of a general discharge permit. A general
discharge permit may be issued to users which are classified as non-major,
informing them of general prohibitive standards, limitations, accidental spill
notification requirements, residue disposal requirements and potential for
being sampled by the Town and subject to the same requirements of major
contributor permits.
   (B)   Permit modifications. The POTW reserves the right to amend any
wastewater discharge permit issued hereunder in order to assure compliance by
the POTW with applicable laws and regulations. Within nine months of the
promulgation of a national categorical pretreatment standard, the wastewater
contribution permit of users subject to such standards shall be revised to
require compliance with such standards within the time frame prescribed by such
standard. Where a user, subject to a national categorical pretreatment
standard, has not previously submitted an application for a wastewater
contribution permit as required by division (A) above, the user shall apply for
a wastewater contribution permit within 180 days after the promulgation of the
applicable national categorical pretreatment standard. This application shall
conform to the requirements of 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b)(1) through (b)(7). In
addition, the user with an existing wastewater contribution permit shall submit
to the Public Works Director within 180 days after the promulgation of an
applicable federal categorical pretreatment standard the information required
by divisions (H) and (I) below. All national categorical pretreatment standards
adopted after the promulgation of this subchapter shall be adopted by the Town
as part of this subchapter. This application shall conform to the requirements
of 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b)(1) through (b)(7). The user shall be informed of any
proposed changes in his or her permit at least 30 days prior to the effective
date of change. Any changes or new condition in the permit shall include a
reasonable time schedule for compliance.
   (C)   Permit conditions.
      (1)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this subchapter and all other applicable regulations, user
charges and fees established by the Town. Permits may contain the following:
         (a)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
         (b)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
         (c)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
         (d)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
         (e)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for
tests and reporting schedule;
         (f)   Compliance schedules;
         (g)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
         (h)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records
relating to wastewater discharge as specified by the Town, and affording POTW
access thereto;
         (i)   Requirements for notification of the POTW of any new
introduction of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume
or character of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the
wastewater treatment system;
         (j)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges as per §§
54.100 and
54.999 of this chapter;
         (k)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Town to ensure
compliance with this subchapter; and
         (l)   Requirements for the industrial user to prepare and submit an
accidental spill prevention plan as well as for reporting of spills of
prohibited materials.
      (2)   The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to
modification by the POTW during the term of the permit as limitations or
requirements as identified in §
54.097 of this chapter are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall
be informed of any proposed changes in his or her permit at least 30 days prior
to the effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit
shall include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
   (D)   Permit transfer. Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific
user for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be
reassigned or transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises
or a new or changed operation without the approval of the POTW. Any succeeding
owner or user shall comply with the terms and conditions of a new permit.
   (E)   Reporting requirements for permittee. Within 90 days following the
date for final compliance with applicable pretreatment standards whether local,
state or federal standard or, in the case of a new source, following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the Public Works
Director a report indicating the nature and concentration of all pollutants in
the discharge from the regulated process which are limited by pretreatment
standards and requirements and the average and maximum daily flow for these
process units in the user facility which are limited by such pretreatment
standards or requirements. The report shall state whether the applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on a consistent basis and,
if not, what additional O&M and/or pretreatment is necessary to bring the user
into compliance with the applicable pretreatment standards or requirements.
This statement shall be signed by an authorized representative of the
industrial user, and certified to by a qualified professional.
   (F)   Periodic compliance reports.
      (1)   Any user subject to a pretreatment standard, after the compliance
date of such pretreatment standard, or, in the case of a new source, after
commencement of the discharge into the POTW, shall submit to the Public Works
Director during the months of June and December, unless required more
frequently in the pretreatment standard or by the Public Works Director, a
report indicating the nature and concentration, of pollutants in the effluents
which are limited by such pretreatment standards. In addition, this report
shall include a record of all daily flows which during the reporting period
exceeded the average daily flow reported in division (C) above. Flows shall be
reported on the basis of actual measurement provided however, where cost or
feasibility constraints justify, the Public Works Director may accept reports
of average and maximum flows estimated by verifiable techniques. At the
discretion of the Public Works Director and in consideration of such factors as
local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles and the like, the Public
Works Director may agree to alter the months during which the above reports are
to be submitted.
      (2)   Reports of permittees shall contain the results of sampling and
analysis of the discharge, including the flow and the nature and concentration,
or production and mass where requested by the Public Works Director, of
pollutants contained therein which are limited by the applicable pretreatment
standards. The frequency of monitoring shall be prescribed in the applicable
pretreatment standard. The Public Works Director may impose mass limitations on
users which are using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or
requirements, or in other cases where the imposition of mass limitations are
appropriate. In such cases, the report required by division (F)(1) above shall
indicate the mass of pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards in the
effluent of the user. All analysis shall be performed in accordance with
procedures established by the Administrator pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act and
contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and amendments thereto or with any other test
procedures approved by the Administrator. Sampling shall be performed in
accordance with the techniques approved by the Administrator. (Comment: where
40 C.F.R. part 136 does not include a sampling or analytical technique for the
pollutant in question, sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance
with the procedures set forth in the EPA publication, Sampling and Analysis
Procedures for Screening of Industrial Effluents for Priority Pollutants,
April, 1977, and amendments thereto, or with any other sampling and analytical
procedures approved by the Administrator.)
   (G)   Major contributor permit applications; fees.
      (1)   Major contributors shall make applications for the proposed
discharge on a form provided by the Town. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, studies or other information
considered pertinent by the Public Works Director, to evaluate compatibility
with the sewage system. It is the purpose of charges and fees to provide for
the recovery of costs from users of the POTW for the implementation of the
program established herein. The applicable charges or fees shall be set forth
in the POTW’s schedule of charges and fees.
      (2)   The POTW may adopt charges and fees which may include:
         (a)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
POTW’s pretreatment program;
         (b)   Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
         (c)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction;
         (d)   Fees for permit applications;
         (e)   Fees for filing appeals;
         (f)   Fees for consistent removal (by the POTW) of pollutants
otherwise subject to federal pretreatment standards; and/or
         (g)   Other fees as the POTW may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
      (3)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this subchapter
and are separate from all other fees chargeable by the POTW.
   (H)   Fees. Permit fees for major contributors shall be as listed in the Fee
Schedule in Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances.
   (I)   Surveillance of major contributors.
      (1)   To establish a feasible surveillance schedule, the following
classes of major contributors are formed:
 
Minimum Surveillance Class Qualifications Schedule
A Flow of 100,000 gallons per day (0.1 Monthly or as required by Public Works
  MGD) and greater per average workday Director
  Flow from 0.025 MGD to 0.1 MGD per
  average workday or discharge with    Quarterly or as required by Public Works
B constituents or characteristics that Director
  result in a major contributor
  classification
 
      (2)   The surveillance period will normally be for a period of seven
consecutive days, but can be of longer or shorter duration at the discretion of
the Public Works Director. In cases where the surveillance period extends for a
greater number of consecutive days than seven, the POTW shall have the
prerogative of selecting the seven consecutive days of its choice for
establishing rates and charges. The POTW will sample and conduct surveillance
and inspection activities of major contributing and non-major industries when
deemed necessary by the Public Works Director to identify independent of
information supplied by industrial users, compliance or non-compliance with
applicable pretreatment standards. In addition to surveillance monitoring
conducted by the POTW, a major contributor shall conduct self-monitoring and
submit monthly monitoring reports to the POTW unless specified otherwise in the
users permit conditions or by the Public Works Director.
   (J)   Surveillance survey charge. The minimum charge for each surveillance
survey shall be as listed in the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances with a maximum charge for seven days of as
listed in the Fee Schedule. Surveillance survey charges are to be adjusted
annually if deemed necessary by the Public Works Director.
   (K)   Monitoring of major contributors.
      (1)   When required by the Public Works Director, a major contributor
shall install, at its own expense:
         (a)   A suitable control manhole (vault), together with such necessary
appurtenances in or on each building lateral sewer to facilitate observation,
sampling and measurement of the wastewater; and
         (b)   Such sampling devices as may be reasonably necessary, unless
otherwise instructed by the Public Works Director.
      (2)   A User may be required by the Public Works Director to install such
manholes (vault) to verify his or her status either as a major contributor or
otherwise. Such manholes (vaults) and sampling and testing devices shall be
provided and maintained to the Public Works Director’s satisfaction at the
expense of the user, but shall be under the control of the POTW. The POTW shall
provide monitoring equipment during a surveillance period. Monitoring equipment
shall, unless otherwise specified by the POTW, include a device for
automatically measuring and recording flow and a device for automatically
taking a composite by-flow sample of wastewater during a 24-hour period.
Laboratory procedures used in the examination of industrial wastes shall be
those set forth in Standard Methods. However, alternative methods for certain
analyses of industrial wastes may be used subject to mutual agreement between
the Public Works Director and the user; provided, they meet federal
requirements as set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and division (E) above. The
POTW shall charge to the user, the standard initial analyses of the user’s
wastes as well as other non-standard tests as required by the user’s specific
process waste loading. Regular periodic check analysis and analysis made by the
Public Works Director at the request of the user shall be charged to the user
according to the standard work order billing practice. All such analysis shall
be binding in determining strength of wastes surcharges and other matters
dependent upon the character and concentration of wastes.
   (L)   Use of representative analysis. Until an adequate analysis of a
representative sample of user’s wastes has been obtained, the POTW shall, for
the purpose of this subchapter, make a determination of the character and
concentration of the user’s wastes by using data based on analysis of similar
processes or data for his or her type of business that are available from the
U.S. Environmental Protective Agency or from industry-recognized authoritative
sources. This method, if selected by the POTW, shall continue at the POTW’s
pleasure or all data collected pertaining to industrial wastes including
records kept by each industrial user shall be subject to audit and review by
the Environmental Protection Agency or approval authority upon request. The
Town shall annually publish in the local newspaper a list of the users which
were not in compliance with any pretreatment requirements or standards at least
once during the 12 previous months. The notification shall also summarize any
enforcement actions taken against the user(s) during the same 12 months.
   (M)   Confidential information.
      (1)   Information and data obtained from reports, questionnaires, permit
applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall be
available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction unless
the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction
of the Town that the release of such information would divulge information,
processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of
the user. When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available upon written
request to governmental agencies for uses related to this subchapter, the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit, state disposal
system permit and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that, such
portions of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state
agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be
recognized as confidential information. Information accepted by the POTW as
confidential shall not be transmitted to any governmental agency or to the
general public by the POTW until and unless a ten-day notification is given to
the user. A person who is licensed commercially or industrial waste hauler may
discharge compatible pollutants to the treatment plant at a given time and
place and in such amounts as permitted by the Public Works Director.
      (2)   Application to the Public Works Director and approval must be
secured prior to any actual dumping along with payment of dump fees as listed
in the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   A listing of all wastes and source information must be submitted
with each application.
   (N)   Industrial pretreatment residues. Sludge from an industrial or
commercial pretreatment system or liquid wastes and industrial sludges
transported by waste haulers shall not be placed into the sewage works. Such
sludge and wastes shall be disposed of by a licensed hauler in a site approved
by the State Board of Health in accordance with requirements of §§ 402(b) and
405 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1342(b) and 1345, and§§ 3001,
3004 and 4004 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6921, 6924
and 6944, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976
(RCRA, Pub. Law No. 94-580, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.).
(2005 Code, § 102.21)
§ 54.100 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   General. The POTW may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or
a wastewater contribution permit when such suspension is necessary, in the
opinion of the POTW, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health
or welfare of persons, to the environment, causes interference to the POTW or
causes violation to any condition of its NPDES permit. Any person notified of a
suspension of the wastewater treatment service and/of the wastewater
contribution permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the contribution. In
the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily with the suspension
order, the POTW shall take such steps as deemed necessary including immediate
severance of the wastewater connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the
POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The POTW shall reinstate the
wastewater contribution permit and/or the wastewater treatment service upon
proof of the elimination of the non-complying discharge. A detailed written
statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any further occurrence shall be
submitted to the POTW within seven days of the date of occurrence. The POTW may
randomly sample and analyze the effluent from industrial users and conduct
surveillance and inspection activities in order to identify, independent of
information supplied by industrial users, occasional and continuing non-
compliance with pretreatment standards. The results of these surveillance and
inspection activities shall be made available to the Regional Administrator or
Director upon request.
   (B)   Revocation of permit. Any user who violates the following conditions
of this subchapter, or applicable state and federal regulations, is subject to
having his permit revoked in accordance with the procedures hereof:
      (1)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of his or her discharge;
      (2)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring; or
      (4)   Violation of conditions of the permit, or this subchapter, or any
final judicial order entered with respect thereto.
   (C)   Notification of violation; administrative adjustment. Whenever the
Town finds that any user has violated or is violating this subchapter,
wastewater contribution permit or any prohibition, limitation of requirements
contained herein, the Town may serve upon such person a written notice either
personally or by certified or registered mail return receipt requested, stating
the nature of the violation. Within 30 days of the date of receipt of the
notice, a plan for the satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted by
the user, either personally or in writing to the Town and/or advising of its
position with respect to the allegations. Thereafter, the parties shall meet to
ascertain the veracity of the allegations and where necessary, establish a plan
for the satisfactory correction thereof.
   (D)   Show cause hearing. Where the violation of division (C) above is not
corrected by timely compliance by means of the administrative adjustment, the
Town may order any user which causes or allows conduct prohibited by division
(B) above, to show cause before the Town or its duly authorized representative,
why the proposed permit revocation action should not be taken. A written notice
shall be served on the user by personal service, certified or registered,
return receipt requested, specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held
by the Town or its designee regarding the violation, the reasons why the
enforcement action is to be taken, the proposed enforcement action, and
directing the user to show cause before the Town or its designee why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the hearing
shall be served no less than ten days before the hearing. Service may be made
on any agent, officer or authorized representative of a user. The proceedings
at the hearing shall be considered by the Town which shall then enter
appropriate orders with respect to the alleged improper activities of the
discharger. Appeal of such orders may be taken by the user in accordance with
applicable local or state law.
   (E)   Judicial proceedings. Following the entry of any order by the Town
with respect to the conduct of a user contrary to the provisions of division
(B) above, the Attorney for the Town may, following the authorization of such
action by the Town, commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable
relief in the appropriate local court in accordance with procedures established
in §
54.999 of this chapter.
   (F)   Enforcement actions; annual publication. A list of all significant
dischargers which were the subject of enforcement proceedings pursuant to this
section during the 12 previous months, shall be annually published by the Town
in the largest daily newspaper, published in the municipality in which the Town
is located, summarizing the enforcement actions taken against the dischargers
during the same 12 months whose violations remained uncorrected 45 or more days
after notification of non-compliance; or which have exhibited a pattern of non-
compliance over that 12-month period, or which involve failure to accurately
report non-compliance.
   (G)   Right of appeal. Any user or any interested party shall have the right
to request in writing an interpretation or ruling by the Town on any matter
covered by this subchapter and shall be entitled to a prompt written reply. In
the event that such inquiry is by a user and deals with matters of performance
or compliance with this subchapter or deals with a wastewater discharge permit
issued pursuant hereto for which enforcement activity relating to an alleged
violation which is the subject, receipt of a user’s request shall stay all
enforcement proceedings pending receipt of the aforesaid written reply. Appeal
of any final judicial order entered pursuant to this subchapter may be taken in
accordance with local and state law.
   (H)   Operating upsets.
      (1)   Any user which experiences an upset in operations which places the
user in a temporary state of non-compliance with this subchapter or a
wastewater discharge permit issued pursuant hereto shall inform the Public
Works Director thereof within 24 hours of first awareness of the commencement
of the upset. Where such information is given orally, a written follow-up
report thereof shall be filed by the user with the POTW within five days. The
report shall specify:
         (a)   Description of the upset, the cause thereof and the upset’s
impact on a discharger’s compliance status;
         (b)   Duration of non-compliance, including exact dates and times of
non-compliance, and if the non-compliance continues, the time by which
compliance is reasonably expected to occur; and
         (c)   All steps taken or to be taken to reduce, eliminate and prevent
recurrence of such an upset or other conditions of non-compliance.
      (2)   A documented and verified bona fide operating upset shall be an
affirmative defense to any enforcement action brought by the Town against a
user for any non-compliance with the ordinance or any wastewater discharge
permit issued pursuant hereto, which arises out of violations alleged to have
occurred during the period of the upset.
   (I)   Falsifying of information. Any person who knowingly makes any false
statements, representation, record, report, plan or other document filed with
the Town or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under these regulations shall be
considered in violation of this subchapter.
(2005 Code, § 102.21)
§ 54.101 ACCESS TO PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The Public Works Director and other duly authorized employees of the utility
bearing proper credential and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. Entry shall
normally be made during daylight or operating hours or at reasonable times. The
Public Works Director or his or her representative shall have no authority to
inquire into any processes beyond that point having a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways of facilities for waste
treatment. While performing the necessary work on private properties referred
to herein, the Public Works Director or duly authorized employees of the
utility shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established
by the company and the Town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage
to its property by utility employees and against liability claims and demands
for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing
out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions. The Public
Works Director and other duly authorized employees of the utility bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the Town holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within said
easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement shall be done
in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to
the private property involved.
(2005 Code, § 102.21)
§ 54.102 RECORDS RETENTION.
   (A)   All users subject to this subchapter shall retain and preserve for no
less than three years any records, books, documents, memoranda, reports,
correspondence and any and all summaries thereof, relating to monitoring,
sampling and chemical analysis made by or in behalf of a user in connection
with its discharge. All records which pertain to matters which are the subject
of administrative adjustment or any other enforcement or litigation activities
brought by the Town pursuant hereto shall be retained and preserved by the user
until all enforcement activities have concluded and all periods of limitation
with respect to any and all appeals have expired.
   (B)   The POTW shall retain and preserve all permit files, records,
enforcement activity records for no less than three years.
(2005 Code, § 102.21)
§ 54.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
54.035 through
54.050 of this chapter shall be punished by a fine or penalty as listed in the
Appendix: Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 100.67)
   (C)   Any user who is found to have violated an order of the Town or who has
failed to comply with any provision of §§
54.095 through
54.102 of this chapter shall be punished by a fine or penalty as listed in the
Appendix: Fines and Penalties in Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 102.21)
CHAPTER 55: NET ENERGY METERING
Section
   
55.01   Preamble
   
55.02   Town encourages investment
   
55.03   Definition
   
55.04   Offering net metering
   
55.05   Billing
   
55.06   Interconnection agreement
   
55.07   Net metering tariff
§ 55.01 PREAMBLE.
   (A)   The Town owns and operates its own Electric Utility. The Town Council
has determined that the development of a net metering program in the Town may
encourage the use of renewable energy resources and renewable energy
technologies as well as promote the wise use of the state’s natural energy
resources to meet growing electricity demand.
   (B)   Net metering is an arrangement of equipment for the production of
electricity from renewable generation sources, such as solar or wind, that are
owned and operated by single phase customers of the Town Utility which allows a
customer to offset its use of electricity by spinning the customer’s electric
meter backwards, effectively crediting the customer for electricity contributed
to the grid.
   (C)   Under a net metering arrangement, in those instances when the net
metering customer’s facility is not producing sufficient electricity to meet
the customer’s needs, the customer-generator purchases electricity from the
Utility under a typical retail service schedule or tariff. Conversely, any
electricity produced by a customer in excess of the customer’s needs is fed
into the Utility grid and offsets the customer’s electric bill.
   (D)   The Town Council believes development of a net metering program that
encourages energy users to become more energy efficient, reduces demand and
potentially reduces energy bills, is an appropriate undertaking for the benefit
of ratepayers and is in the public interest.
   (E)   The safety of Town Utility workers and the general public requires
inspection and testing of equipment arranged for the production of electricity
from solar, wind, biomass, geothermal or hydroelectric facilities that are
owned and operated by residential, commercial or industrial customers of the
Town Utility and connected to the Utility’s grid.
(Ord. 2015-19, passed 11-16-2015)
§ 55.02 TOWN ENCOURAGES INVESTMENT.
   The Town encourages interested citizens and businesses to invest in
renewable electric energy generation systems and enter into a net metering
arrangement with the Municipal Electric Utility of the Town.
(Ord. 2015-19, passed 11-16-2015)
§ 55.03 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELIGIBLE NET METERING CUSTOMERS. Include single phase customers in good
standing that own and operate a renewable generating facility that:
      (1)   Has a nameplate capacity less than or equal to ten kilowatts (kW);
      (2)   Is located on the customer’s premises and is operated by the
customer; and
      (3)   Is used primarily to offset all or part of the customer’s own
electricity requirements.
(Ord. 2015-19, passed 11-16-2015)
§ 55.04 OFFERING NET METERING.
   The Town Council authorizes the Utility to offer net metering to eligible
net metering customers on a first come, first served basis. The Utility shall
limit the aggregate amount of net metering facility nameplate capacity from all
eligible net metering customers to 0.1% of the Utility’s most recent summer
peak load.
(Ord. 2015-19, passed 11-16-2015)
§ 55.05 BILLING.
   The Utility shall measure the difference between the amount of energy
delivered by the Utility to the eligible net metering customer and the amount
of energy generated by the eligible net metering customer and delivered to the
Utility, if the eligible net metering customer generates more energy than it
consumes in a month, the customer shall receive a bill credit from the Utility
for the amount of surplus energy generated. The Utility shall not purchase or
wheel power produced by an eligible net metering customer’s facilities.
(Ord. 2015-19, passed 11-16-2015)
§ 55.06 INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENT.
   (A)   In accordance with the terms of the net metering tariff, the Utility
shall enter into an interconnection agreement with the eligible net metering
customer, which incorporates technical interconnection requirements and does
not conflict with this chapter before the net metering facility may be
interconnected with the Utility’s system.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to connect or maintain
the connection of a renewable generating facility to the Utility’s system
without first executing an interconnection agreement with the Utility. Any
person or entity found to be in violation of this section shall be fined as set
out in the Appendix: Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2015-19, passed 11-16-2015)
§ 55.07 NET METERING TARIFF.
   The following net metering tariff shall be adopted as the rates, terms and
conditions under which the Utility will offer net metering to eligible net
metering customers.
Walkerton Net Metering Tariff
Walkerton Net Metering Tariff
Availability
Net metering is provided upon request and on a first come, first served basis. Net
metering is available to single phase customers in good standing that own and operate a
renewable generation source (such as solar or wind). The nameplate rating of customer’s
generator must not exceed ten kW. Customers served under this tariff must also take
service from the Utility under the otherwise applicable standard service tariff.
Definitions
NET METERING means measuring the difference in an applicable billing period between the
amount of electricity supplied by Utility to customer who generates electricity using
an eligible renewable generation source and the amount of electricity generated by such
respective customer that is delivered to Utility.
Rate
Customer charge: As set out in the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances.
Billing
The measurement of net energy supplied by Utility and delivered to Utility shall be
calculated in the following manner. Utility shall measure the difference between the
amount of electricity delivered by Utility to customer and the amount of electricity
generated by the customer and delivered to Utility during the billing period, in
accordance with normal metering practices. If the kWh delivered by Utility to the
customer exceeds the kWh delivered by the customer to Utility during the billing
period, the customer shall be billed for the kWh difference. If the kWh generated by
the customer and delivered to Utility exceeds the kWh supplied by the Utility to
customer during the billing period, the customer shall be credited in the next billing
cycle for the kWh difference. When customer elects to discontinue net metering service,
any unused credit will be granted to Utility. The Utility shall not purchase or wheel
power produced by net metering facilities. Energy charges will be in accordance with
the lowest energy charge in the standard tariff that would apply if the customer did
not participate in net metering under this tariff and any applicable energy cost
adjustment, tracker or other riders applicable to the standard tariff.
Metering
The customer’s standard meter, if capable of measuring electricity in both directions
will be used. If Utility determines new metering is necessary, the Utility will install
metering capable of net metering at the customer’s expense. Additionally, the Utility
reserves the right to install, at its own expense, a meter to measure the output of the
renewable generation system.
Terms and Conditions
In order to be eligible for net metering, the customer’s generator must meet the
following requirements.
   a.   All kWh must be generated from the output of solar, wind, biomass, geothermal,
hydroelectric or other renewable generation sources;
   b.   The generation equipment must be operated by the customer and located on the
customer’s premises;
   c.   The generator must operate in parallel with the Utility’s transmission and
distribution facilities without adversely affecting the Utility’s system and equipment
and without presenting safety hazards or threats to the reliability of service to the
Utility, its personnel and other customers. The customer is required to sign the
interconnection agreement to safeguard Utility employees;
   d.   The customer’s generation must be intended primarily to offset all or part of
the customer’s requirements for electricity;
   e.   The nameplate rating of customer’s generator must not exceed ten kW and the
customer’s generation must satisfy the interconnection requirements specified below.
Customer shall submit an application for interconnection service including an
application fee as set out in the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 and will execute an interconnection agreement acceptable to the Utility.
Customer shall maintain homeowners, commercial or other insurance providing coverage in
the amount of at least $100,000 for the liability of the insured against loss arising
out of the use of generation equipment associated with net metering under this tariff.
The supplying of, and billing for, service and all conditions applying thereto, are
subject to the Utility’s General Terms and Conditions.
Issued Date: ______________________________________________________________
Effective:
______________________________________________________________
 
(Ord. 2015-19, passed 11-16-2015)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PEDESTRIANS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRUCKS AND OTHER LARGE VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
75.   PARKING RULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Signs, signals and markers; when placed
   
70.03   Compliance with automatic signal devices
   
70.04   Procedure upon approach to automatic signal devices
   
70.05   Compliance with stop, yield, slow or parking signs
   
70.06   General parking; responsibility
   
70.07   Enforcement of ordinances
   
70.08   Police officers, school crossing guards having authority to regulate
traffic
   
70.09   Defacement of devices
   
70.10   Application of regulations
   
70.11   Loading and unloading
   
70.12   Non-exclusive jurisdiction
   
70.13   Effective date
Administration
   
70.25   Duty of Police Department
   
70.26   Records of traffic violations
   
70.27   Procedures
   
70.28   Traffic accidents; reports and studies
   
70.29   Drivers’ files
   
70.30   Annual traffic safety report
   
70.31   Non-exclusive jurisdiction
Noise Limits and Control
   
70.45   Definitions
   
70.46   Heavy motor vehicles; noise limit
   
70.47   Excessive noise
   
70.48   Signaling devices
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Motor Vehicles of the State of Indiana.
   OPERATOR. Includes the driver or rider of any vehicle, as defined herein.
   OWNER. The last known record title holder to a vehicle according to the
records of the Department under the provisions of I.C. 9-13-2-121.
   PARK. Includes the leaving or standing, attended of any vehicle in any
street, as defined herein, within the Town.
   PERSONS. Every natural person, firm, corporation, co-partnership or
association.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or
make arrests for violations of traffic violations.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. All privately owned property which is not classified
within the definition of “public premises”.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The department of local government which is assigned the
local responsibility to adopt local regulations concerning public premises.
   PUBLIC PREMISES. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or municipally owned property.
   STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of public for purposes of
vehicular traffic. The term includes an alley.
(I.C. 9-13-2-175)
   VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, automobile, motorcycle, truck, trailer, semi-
trailer, truck-trailer, bus, school bus, house car or motored bicycle or any
other mode of motorized transportation.
(2005 Code, § 59.1)
§ 70.02 SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKERS; WHEN PLACED.
   The Town Council, through the Street Department, shall cause to be placed
and maintained official signs, signals and street markings at places and points
where necessary and practicable for the purpose of regulating the operation of
moving vehicles upon the streets and for the purpose of regulating the parking
of vehicles.
(2005 Code, § 59.2)
§ 70.03 COMPLIANCE WITH AUTOMATIC SIGNAL DEVICES.
   Wherever the Town Council has stationed that any street intersection within
the Town any automatic signal device for the purpose of regulating the
operation of moving vehicles upon the street, it shall be the duty of all
persons driving or operating any such vehicles, to be governed by and obey the
signals given by such device.
(2005 Code, § 59.3)
§ 70.04 PROCEDURE UPON APPROACH TO AUTOMATIC SIGNAL DEVICES.
   Any driver approaching any automatic signaling device, when the same is set
against him or her, shall bring his or her vehicle to a stop before entering
upon the intersecting street and shall not proceed farther until signaled to
go. When left hand turns are permitted, a driver desiring to make such a turn
shall drive as closely as safe and practicable to such signal and then stop
until the signal is set for travel in the direction he or she desires to go.
(2005 Code, § 59.4)
§ 70.05 COMPLIANCE WITH STOP, YIELD, SLOW OR PARKING SIGNS.
   Wherever the Town Council has stationed upon the streets and terraces of the
Town any stop, yield, slow or parking sign for the purpose of regulating the
operation of moving or standing vehicles upon the streets, it shall be the duty
of all persons driving or operating such vehicles to be governed by and obey
the signs given by such signs.
(2005 Code, § 59.5)
§ 70.06 GENERAL PARKING; RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   (1)   Parking longer than ten days prohibited. It shall be unlawful
for any person to park a vehicle within the street pavement for longer than ten
consecutive days without moving the same.
      (2)   Parking a truck larger than a pickup. It shall be unlawful for any
person to park any truck larger than a pickup within the street pavement after
7:00 p.m.
(2005 Code, § 59.6)
   (B)   Prohibited in specified places. No person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or to avoid
conflict with law or the direction of a police officer or traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
      (a)   On a sidewalk;
      (b)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (c)   Within an intersection;
      (d)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (e)   On a crosswalk;
      (f)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (g)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop, sign
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (h)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on a curve immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone unless a
traffic authority indicates a different length by signs or markings;
      (i)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (j)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of such entrance, when property sign posted;
      (k)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (l)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of the street;
      (m)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street or within
a street tunnel;
      (n)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping; and/or
      (o)   On any terrace of the Town.
(2005 Code, § 59.7)
   (C)   Responsibility of owner of vehicle. No person shall allow, permit or
suffer any vehicle registered in his or her name to stand or park in any street
in the Town in violation of any of the provisions of this traffic code
regulating the standing or parking of vehicles.
(2005 Code, § 59.8)
§ 70.07 ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCES.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to enforce the provisions of
this traffic code.
(2005 Code, § 59.9)
§ 70.08 POLICE OFFICERS, SCHOOL CROSSING GUARDS HAVING AUTHORITY TO REGULATE
TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Police officers and school crossing guards or other designees as
appointed by the Chief of Police as Traffic Offers placed at street
intersections in the congested district and elsewhere within the Town shall
have power to regulate traffic, both of vehicles and pedestrians.
   (B)   All persons should obey any orders by said Traffic Officer.
(2005 Code, § 59.10)
§ 70.09 DEFACEMENT OF DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact
alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control
device, any railroad sign or signal, any inscription shield or any insignia
thereon, or any part thereof.
   (B)   Any person in violation of this section shall make restitution to the
Town and pay the designated fine set forth in §
70.99 of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 59.11)
§ 70.10 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   This traffic code shall be constructed in connection with all other
ordinances now in force and effect of the Town regulating the parking of
automobiles or other motor vehicles in the Town.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall not be constructed as
permitting the parking of any vehicle mentioned herein at any place or for any
length of time or in any manner now prohibited by any ordinance now regulating
the time, place or manner of parking motor vehicles in the Town.
(2005 Code, § 59.12)
§ 70.11 LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   It shall be unlawful for any semi-truck, tractor or tractor trailer designed
for use in handling merchandise, livestock or other freight, whether loaded or
empty, to use or park in residential streets unless the vehicle is actually
engaged in making deliveries of merchandise of freights, dwellings or places of
business located along either side of the street and then only for the purpose
of loading or unloading merchandise or freight at those places.
(2005 Code, § 59.13)
§ 70.12 NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION.
   The Walkerton Chief of Police or a Walkerton police officer may file any
motor vehicle violation committed within the Town in any other court of
competent jurisdiction in lieu of using the provisions of this traffic code.
(2005 Code, § 59.17)
§ 70.13 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This traffic code was in full force and effect after its passage and
publication.
(2005 Code, § 59.19)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 70.25 DUTY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to enforce the traffic
regulations of the Town and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic in the Town, to make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate
accidents and to cooperate in the administration of the traffic laws and in
developing ways and means to improve traffic conditions, and to carry out those
duties specially imposed upon the Police Department by this traffic code and
the traffic ordinances of the Town.
(2005 Code, § 60.02)
§ 70.26 RECORDS OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   The Police Department shall keep a record of all violations of the traffic
ordinances of the Town or of the state vehicle laws of which any person has
been charged, together with a record of the final disposition of all such
alleged offenses. Such record shall be so maintained as to show all types of
violations and the total of each. Said record shall accumulate during at least
a five-year period and from that time on the record shall be maintained
complete for at least the most recent five-year period.
(2005 Code, § 60.03)
§ 70.27 PROCEDURES.
   The following procedures shall be applicable to traffic violations:
   (A)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   Whenever any police officer, deputy police officer, employed as
such by the Town Council and while acting as an officer, finds the provisions
of any ordinance enacted to regulate traffic or promote safety in or on the
streets, alleys, highways and sidewalks of the Town have been violated by the
owner or operator of any vehicle, the officer shall notify the owner or
operator in writing of the violation.
      (2)   The police officer shall use the approved e-ticket and the
procedures in place by the Town of Walkerton Police Department, show the
specific violation, the state license number of the vehicle and the owner’s
name, if it is at all possible to obtain it. All notices shall be signed by the
police officer issuing it. One copy of the notice shall be presented to the
owner of the vehicle or its representative when found in charge of the vehicle.
If neither the owner, nor his or her representative, can be found in possession
of the vehicle, the posting of the notice in a conspicuous place upon the
vehicle shall be deemed sufficient and effective notice of the violation. One
copy of the notice shall be filed in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   In the event the police officer is unable to serve the notice of
the violation upon the owner of the vehicle or his or her representative, the
violation shall be reported by the officer to the Town Court and a notice of
the violation shall then be served upon the owner by mailing it by certified
mail to the usual or last known address of the owner and this shall constitute
sufficient and effective notice.
   (B)   Duty of violator to report. The owner or operator of a vehicle who has
been notified of a violation of any traffic regulation or safety measure
according to any of the methods of notification prescribed in division (A)(2)
above shall, within three business days after notification, present himself or
herself, together with the notice, at the office maintained by the Town Court.
   (C)   Guilty plea, fine payment. Whenever any violator presents himself or
herself at the office maintained by the Town Court in accordance with the
provisions of division (B) above, he or she may, if he or she desires, plead
guilty and pay the designated fine set forth in division (F)(1) below.
   (D)   Receipt for fine payment records. Upon payment of the fine provided in
division (F)(1) below, the Town Court shall issue a receipt to the person
paying the fine. It shall be the duty of the Town Court to keep a correct
record showing the amount paid, the date of payment, the number of the state
license, the name of the owner, the violation for which the fine was paid and
whether the violation is the first, second or third offense. It is further made
the duty of the Town Court to account for all fines assessed and collected by
him or her and to pay them into the General Continuing Education Fund of the
Town.
   (E)   Failure of violator to report. When a violator of traffic regulations
or safety measures is notified according to the provisions of this subchapter
and fails to report according to the provisions of this subchapter, a warrant
shall be issued for the arrest of the violator and, if he or she is located, he
or she will be prosecuted in court.
   (F)   Penalties.
      (1)   For the violation of any traffic regulation or safety measure, the
violator, upon the presentation of himself or herself at the office maintained
by the Town Court the appropriate fine pursuant to the Penalty Appendix and the
Fee Schedule.
      (2)   All forms for records of violations and notices of violations shall
be serially numbered. For each month and year, a written record shall be kept
available to the public showing the disposal of all such forms. All such
records and reports shall be public records.
(2005 Code, § 60.04)
§ 70.28 TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS; REPORTS AND STUDIES.
   The Walkerton Police Department shall maintain a suitable system of filing
traffic accident reports. Such reports shall be available for the use and
information of the Town and State of Indiana.
(2005 Code, § 60.05)
§ 70.29 DRIVERS’ FILES.
   (A)   The Police Department shall maintain a suitable record of all traffic
accidents, warnings, arrests, convictions and complaints reported for each
driver, which records shall be filed alphabetically under the name of the
driver concerned.
   (B)   The Police Department shall study the cases of all the drivers charged
with frequent or serious violations of the traffic laws or involved in frequent
traffic accidents or any serious accident, and shall attempt to discover the
reasons therefore, and shall take whatever steps are lawful and reasonable to
prevent the same or to have the licenses of such persons suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Such records shall accumulate during at least a five-year period and
from that time on such records shall be maintained complete for at least the
most recent five-year period.
(2005 Code, § 60.07)
§ 70.30 ANNUAL TRAFFIC SAFETY REPORT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall monthly prepare reports which shall be
provided to the Town Council, reporting accidents and tickets. The Chief of
Police shall also annually prepare the same report and present it to the Town
Council.
   (B)   Such report shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The number of traffic accidents, the number of persons killed, the
number of persons injured and other pertinent traffic accident data;
      (2)   The number of traffic accidents investigated and other pertinent
data on the safety activities of the police; and
      (3)   The plans and recommendations of the Division for future traffic
safety activities.
(2005 Code, § 60.08)
§ 70.31 NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION.
   The police officer may file any motor vehicle violation having been
committed within the Town with any court of competent jurisdiction in lieu of
using the provisions of this traffic code.
(2005 Code, § 60.12)
NOISE LIMITS AND CONTROL
§ 70.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All
terminology used in this subchapter, not defined below, shall be in conformance
with applicable publications of the American National Standards Institute
(ANSI) or its successor body.
   A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The sound pressure level in decibels as measured on
a sound level meter using the A-weighing network. The level so read is
designated dB(A) or dBA.
   LIGHT MOTOR VEHICLE. Any automobile, van, motorcycle, motor driven cycle,
motor scooter or light truck with gross vehicular weight of less than 8,000
pounds.
   MODIFIED EXHAUST SYSTEM. It is an exhaust system in which:
      (1)   The original noise abatement devices have been physically altered
causing them to be less effective in reducing noise;
      (2)   The original noise abatement devices have been either removed or
replaced by noise abatement devices which are not as effective in reducing
noise as the original devices; or
      (3)   Devices have been added to the original noise abatement devices,
such that noise levels are increased.
   NOISE. Any sound which annoys or disturbs humans or which causes or tends to
cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans.
   NOISE LEVEL. The A-weighted sound level produced by a light motor vehicle.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, partnership or corporation, and
includes any officer, employee, department, agency or instrumentality of a
state or any political subdivision of a state.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. This means an instrument which includes a microphone,
amplifier, RMS detector, integrator or time averager, output meter and weighing
networks used to measure sound pressure levels. The instrument shall comply
with the standards for Type 1 or Type 2 sound level meters as specified in
American National Standards Institute Standard ANSI SI.4-1 971 or its
successor.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. Twenty times the logarithm to the base ten of the
ration of the RMS sound pressure to the reference pressure of 20 micropascals.
The SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL is expressed in decibels.
(2005 Code, § 63.01) (Ord. 86-003, passed 7-28-1986)
§ 70.46 HEAVY MOTOR VEHICLES; NOISE LIMIT.
   (A)   For the purposes of this subchapter, HEAVY MOTOR VEHICLE shall mean
any motorized vehicle with a gross vehicular weight of more than 8,000 pounds.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause noise levels from the
operation of a light motor vehicle in excess of 80 dBA and from a heavy motor
vehicle in excess of 95 dBA in any area within the corporate limits of the
Town. Measurement shall be made on pedestrian walkways or on other suitable
locations at a point closest to the street in accordance with procedures
outlined in the Code of Recommended Practices on file with the Town Clerk.
(2005 Code, § 63.02) (Ord. 86-003, passed 7-28-1986)
§ 70.47 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   In addition to the prohibition provided for in §
70.46 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor
vehicle which causes excessive noise levels as a result of a defective or
modified exhaust system, or as a result of unnecessary rapid acceleration,
deceleration, revving or tire squeal. At the request of the operator of the
light motor vehicle, the officer can administer a stationary motor vehicle
noise test as outlined in the Code of Recommended Practices on file with the
Town Clerk- Treasurer. The stationary motor vehicle noise test can provide
information as to the extent of defectiveness of the exhaust system or as to
whether excessive noise levels were cause by improper operation of the light
motor vehicle.
(2005 Code, § 63.03) (Ord. 86-003, passed 7-28-1986)
§ 70.48 SIGNALING DEVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any horn or other
audible signaling device on any motor vehicle, except in an emergency or when
required by law.
   (B)   Burglar alarms on light motor vehicles shall only be of the electronic
signaling type which transmit a non-audible signal to a receiver which can be
carried by the owner or operator of the vehicle.
(2005 Code, § 63.04) (Ord. 86-003, passed 7-28-1986)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalty schedule.
      (1)   Penalties will be assessed for the following violations:
         (a)   For improper parking;
         (b)   For non-moving traffic; and
         (c)   For moving traffic violations:
            1.   Stop sign violations;
            2.   Improper parking;
            3.   Speeding not in excess of 15 miles over the speed limit;
            4.   Speeding in excess of 15 mph over the limit, but not more than
25 miles over the limit;
            5.   Speeding in excess of 25 miles over the speed limit;
            6.   Yield sign violations; and
            7.   All other moving violations.
      (2)   Each violation above constitutes an infraction. A penalty will be
assessed pursuant to the Appendix: Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances, upon conviction by the Town Court Judge as
per provisions set herein. Those persons receiving citations should contact the
court before their appearance date to determine their fines and costs.
(2005 Code, § 59.14)
   (B)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   Whenever the Walkerton Chief of Police or the Town of Walkerton
police officers find the owner or operator of any vehicle or other person has
committed any action which is declared unlawful by the provisions of state
traffic statutes or Town ordinances, such officers shall give uniform traffic
citation to such person of such violations. All uniform traffic citation shall
be serially numbered and shall contain the following:
         (a)   The specific violation with which the violator is charged;
         (b)   The license plate number and type of vehicle;
         (c)   The name and address of the owner of the vehicle and the
operator of the vehicle, if possible to obtain same;
         (d)   The location of the violation;
         (e)   The name of the officer;
         (f)   The date of the violation; and
         (g)   The date the violator is to be in the Town Court.
      (2)   The notice shall also contain the following statement:
            “From the time of the violation to the court date as shown on the
Uniform Traffic Citation of the Violation, the violator may bring the Uniform
Traffic Violation to the Walkerton Town Court, Walkerton Municipal Building,
301 Michigan, Walkerton, Indiana 46574, or mail the fine to such address within
the said time. The Town Court shall send a judgment letter notifying the
violator of nonpayment, of the possible suspension of their driving privileges
by the Department of Motor Vehicles and filing of additional charges pursuant
to I.C. 34-28-5-1 et seq.”
(2005 Code, § 59.15)
   (C)   Payment of fines.
      (1)   Any person receiving a uniform traffic citation for a traffic
violation pursuant to the provisions of this traffic code shall, prior to the
court date on the citation, appear at the Town Court, 301 Michigan, Walkerton,
Indiana 46574 and pay the imposed penalty by depositing such amount along with
the uniform traffic citation. The Town Court shall send a judgment letter to
those who do not comply with the above. This judgment letter will indicate
payment and notification of the possible suspension of driving privileges by
the Department of Motor Vehicles and filing of additional charges pursuant to
I.C. 34-28-5-1 et seq.
      (2)   In addition to the penalties provided for herein, the Walkerton
Chief of Police or police officers may cause any vehicle parked in violation of
any provision of state traffic statutes or Town ordinances to be removed to a
private garage or place where the same shall be impounded and retained. Such
vehicle shall be released only upon order of the Walkerton Chief of Police or
Deputy Chief of Police after payment of the fine required by this traffic code
to be paid in compromise of such violation and all costs of towing and storage.
(2005 Code, § 59.16)
CHAPTER 71: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
71.01   Pedestrians subject to traffic-control signals
   
71.02   Pedestrians’ right-of-way
   
71.03   Pedestrians to keep right
   
71.04   Crossing at right angles
   
71.05   When pedestrian shall yield right-of-way
   
71.06   Prohibited crossing
   
71.07   Pedestrians walking on roadways
   
71.08   Pedestrians soliciting rides or businesses
   
71.09   Drivers to exercise due care
   
71.10   Use of roller skates and similar devices
§ 71.01 PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals, but, at all other
places, pedestrians shall be granted those rights and be subject to the
restrictions stated in this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 64.01)
§ 71.02 PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to any pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall suddenly leave
a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle,
which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(2005 Code, § 64.02)
§ 71.03 PEDESTRIANS TO KEEP TO RIGHT.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(2005 Code, § 64.03)
§ 71.04 CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb, except
in a crosswalk.
(2005 Code, § 64.04)
§ 71.05 WHEN PEDESTRIAN SHALL YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) above have no application under the conditions
stated in §
71.06 of this chapter when pedestrians are prohibited from crossing at certain
designated places.
(2005 Code, § 64.05)
§ 71.06 PROHIBITED CROSSING.
   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place, except in a crosswalk.
(2005 Code, § 64.06)
§ 71.07 PEDESTRIANS WALKING ON ROADWAYS.
   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to
walk along or upon an adjacent roadway. Where sidewalks or marked walkways are
not provided, any pedestrian walking along and upon a highway shall when
practicable walk only on the left side of the roadway or its shoulder facing
traffic which may approach from the opposite direction.
(2005 Code, § 64.07)
§ 71.08 PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person shall stand on a street or highway for the purpose of
soliciting a ride, employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall stand on or in proximity to a street or highway for
the purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked
or about to be parked on a street or highway.
(2005 Code, § 64.08)
§ 71.09 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subchapter, every driver of
a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon
any roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and
shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(2005 Code, § 64.09)
§ 71.10 USE OF ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES.
   No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle or similar device, shall go upon any roadway, except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk, and, when so crossing, such person shall be granted all
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
This section shall not apply upon any street when set aside as a play street as
authorized by this traffic code.
(2005 Code, § 64.10)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
72.01   Traffic laws apply
   
72.02   Traffic-control devices; obedience
   
72.03   Number on bicycle limited
   
72.04   Riding on streets
   
72.05   Pedestrian has right-of-way
   
72.06   Handlebars
   
72.07   Equipment required
   
72.08   Speed limits
   
72.09   Parking
   
72.10   Parental responsibility
   
72.11   Provisions of code applicable
   
72.13   Violations; handling procedure
   
72.14   Riding on sidewalks
BICYCLES
§ 72.01 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY.
   Any person operating a bicycle upon a street shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle under the laws of the state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles and under
Ch. 74 of this code of ordinances, except as to special regulations in this
subchapter and except as to those provisions of state law and
Ch. 74 of this code of ordinances which, by their nature, can have no
application.
(2005 Code, § 67.01)
§ 72.02 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; OBEDIENCE.
   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs and other devices applicable to vehicles unless
otherwise directed by a police officer. Whenever authorized signs are erected,
including that no right or left or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a
bicycle shall disobey the direction of any such sign, except where such person
dismounts from a bicycle to make any such turn; in which event, such person
shall then obey the regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(2005 Code, § 67.02)
§ 72.03 NUMBER ON BICYCLE LIMITED.
   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto. No bicycle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(2005 Code, § 67.03)
§ 72.04 RIDING ON STREETS.
   (A)   A person operating a bicycle upon a street shall ride as near to the
right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Bicycles shall be ridden in single file when passing other vehicles or
other objects in the roadway, and at no time shall bicycles be ridden more than
two abreast.
(2005 Code, § 67.04)
§ 72.05 PEDESTRIAN HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   When a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person shall yield
the right-of-way to any pedestrian. Persons riding bicycles should give an
audible signal a reasonable distance before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian.
(2005 Code, § 67.05)
§ 72.06 HANDLEBARS.
   The hands of the operator shall be on the handlebars at all times, except
while in the act of signaling.
(2005 Code, § 67.06)
§ 72.07 EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Light required. When in use during the period of darkness, each
bicycle shall be equipped with and shall display a white light on the front
thereof, said lamp to be securely fastened to the bicycle, and plainly
discernable from a distance of 300 feet ahead under normal atmospheric
conditions, and a red reflector on the rear thereof, which shall be plainly
visible at night in the lawful lights of motor vehicles for a distance of 200
feet to the rear under like conditions.
(2005 Code, § 67.07)
   (B)   Warning device required.
      (1)   No person shall ride a bicycle unless it is equipped with a
suitable bell or other warning device audible for a distance of 100 feet or
more.
      (2)   Whistles or sirens are prohibited as warning devices.
(2005 Code, § 67.08)
   (C)   Brakes required. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which
will enable the operator to make the braked wheels skid on a dry, level, clean
pavement.
(2005 Code, § 67.09)
§ 72.08 SPEED LIMITS.
   No person shall operate his or her bicycle at a speed greater than permits
him or her to bring his or her vehicle to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
(2005 Code, § 67.10)
§ 72.09 PARKING.
   (A)   Bicycles shall be parked in bicycle racks or other designated areas.
   (B)   In the event that the above are unavailable, the bicycle may be parked
against the curb or alongside a building in a manner so as not to obstruct
vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
(2005 Code, § 67.11)
§ 72.10 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   No parent or guardian shall authorize or knowingly permit his or her child
or ward to violate any of the provisions of this subchapter.
(2005 Code, § 67.12)
§ 72.11 PROVISIONS OF CODE APPLICABLE.
   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply whenever a bicycle is
operated upon any street, sidewalk, alley or upon any public path set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(2005 Code, § 67.13)
§ 72.13 VIOLATIONS; HANDLING PROCEDURE.
   Upon the violation of any of the provisions of this traffic code by any
person, the owner of the bicycle which was being used by such person at the
time of the violation may voluntarily deliver, surrender and turn said bicycle
over to the Police Department for impoundment for a period not exceeding 30
days; provided, however, that, if the person violating is under the age of 17
years, and the prosecution for the violation would be handled under the statute
therefore provided, the Chief of Police, at his or her discretion, may
determine that such voluntary impoundment of the bicycle is sufficient
deterrent and punishment to the person so violating and, thereupon, may refuse
to prosecute for such violation.
(2005 Code, § 67.14)
§ 72.14 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business district.
Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person shall yield
the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal before
overtaking and passing a pedestrian.
(2005 Code, § 67.60)
CHAPTER 73: TRUCKS AND OTHER LARGE VEHICLES
Section
Trucks
   
73.01   Definition
   
73.02   Trucks restricted
   
73.03   Truck routes designated
   
73.04   Parking in residential areas
   
73.05   Parking in business districts
   
73.06   Special permits
   
73.07   Parking over one hour
Weight Regulations
   
73.20   Load restrictions
   
73.21   Commercial vehicles
   
73.22   Load restrictions during certain hours
   
73.23   Removal; penalties
TRUCKS
§ 73.01 DEFINITION.
   A TRUCK is any motor vehicle designed, used or maintained, primarily for the
transportation of property, unless the vehicle has a maximum capacity of one
ton or less unloaded.
(2005 Code, § 66.01)
§ 73.02 TRUCKS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No driver of a truck shall operate it upon any street which is not
posted as a truck route, except for the purpose of making a delivery or
carrying on business in the block in which such truck is being operated or
driven.
   (B)   (1)   Any driver making such a delivery shall enter the street at the
first intersection nearest the point of delivery and leave such street at the
first intersection after such delivery.
      (2)   It is the intent of this section that any driver making such a
delivery or carrying on business on a street other than a truck route shall use
the shortest possible route to and from a truck route for purposes of making
the delivery or carrying on the business.
(2005 Code, § 66.02)
§ 73.03 TRUCK ROUTES DESIGNATED.
   The Town Council shall have the authority to designate and to order posted
streets as truck routes as deemed necessary.
(2005 Code, § 66.03)
§ 73.04 PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   No person shall park or cause to be parked any truck upon any street in the
Town located in an area zoned primarily for residential purposes; provided,
however, this section shall not apply to the parking of trucks in any area,
regardless of zoning designation, for purposes of making a delivery or carrying
on business.
(2005 Code, § 66.04)
§ 73.05 PARKING IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   No person shall park or cause to be parked any truck on any street within
the central business district of the Town; provided, however, that, a truck may
park in the area for the purpose of loading or unloading freight between the
hours of 6:00 p.m. and 11:00 a.m. In the event of an emergency, exceptions to
this section may be permitted by specific authorization of a police officer.
(2005 Code, § 66.05)
§ 73.06 SPECIAL PERMITS.
   Except for highways under state control, no trucks shall be operated in any
residential district within the Town between the hours of 5:30 p.m. and 7:00
a.m.; provided that, upon application showing undue hardship, a special permit
may be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer for the operation of a truck in
contravention of this subchapter.
(2005 Code, § 66.06)
§ 73.07 PARKING OVER ONE HOUR.
   No person shall park a bus or truck of more than one-half ton capacity on
any street or alley for a period of more than one hour, nor in any angle
parking space at any time.
(2005 Code, § 66.07)
WEIGHT REGULATIONS
§ 73.20 LOAD RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate
any vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts posted at any time
upon any of the streets or parts of streets so designated.
   (B)   No person shall park or leave standing any truck of a greater weight
than one-ton rated load capacity on any Town street or public parking area;
except that, trucks over such weight may be parked or standing only while
loading or unloading cargo.
(2005 Code, § 65.01)
§ 73.21 COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   Commercial vehicles exceeding 5,000 pounds gross weight shall be restricted
at all times to those streets or parts of streets as posted by signs; except
that, such vehicles may be operated thereon for the purpose of delivering or
picking up materials or merchandise and then only by entering such street at
the intersection nearest the destination of the vehicle and proceeding thereon
no farther than the nearest intersection thereafter. Commercial and other
vehicles exceeding one-ton load rated capacity shall be restricted from use of
any and all residential zoned streets, highways, alleys and such public
thoroughfares (except where such street is a state or federal highway passing
through a residential zone); except that, such vehicles may be operated
thereupon for the purpose of delivering or picking up cargo or merchandise and
then only by entering such street and using such streets that are approved for
the most practical and direct route in the opinion of the local police.
(2005 Code, § 65.02)
§ 73.22 LOAD RESTRICTIONS DURING CERTAIN HOURS.
   Except on state highways or state controlled highways, no commercial vehicle
with a gross weight in excess of 10,000 pounds shall be operated in any
residential district in said Town between the hours of 5:30 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
provided, in the event that this restriction shall result in an undue hardship
or unfair competition, the Walkerton Police Department and its officers shall
have the power to authorize the issuance of special permits from time to time
as deemed necessary for the protection of the rights of any individual, firm or
corporation.
(2005 Code, § 65.03)
§ 73.23 REMOVAL; PENALTIES.
   It is provided that in addition to any penalty provided for in the Town
code, any truck or vehicle in violation of this subchapter may be ordered to be
removed or may be removed by the Chief of Police or any police officer at the
expense of the driver of said vehicle, its owner, or person in possession of
such truck or vehicle.
(2005 Code, § 65.04)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
74.01   Definitions
   
74.02   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
   
74.03   Required obedience
   
74.04   Public employees to obey traffic regulations
   
74.05   Authorized emergency vehicles; right-of-way
   
74.06   Accident reports
   
74.07   Animal rider and push carts
   
74.08   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
74.09   When traffic devices required
   
74.10   Traffic-control signs; legend
   
74.11   Pedestrian control signals
   
74.12   Flashing signals
Standards and Regulations
   
74.25   Interference and unlawful display
   
74.26   Turning; at intersections; limitations
   
74.27   Speed; state laws applicable
   
74.28   Authority to install traffic-control devices
   
74.29   U-turns
   
74.30   One-way streets and alleys
   
74.31   Stop and yield signs
   
74.32   Emerging from alley, driveway or building
   
74.33   Obstruction of intersection
   
74.34   Following fire apparatus
   
74.35   Crossing fire hose
   
74.36   Funeral or other processions
   
74.37   Driving on sidewalks
   
74.38   Backing
   
74.39   Motorcycles
   
74.40   Attaching to vehicles
   
74.41   Unlawful riding
   
74.42   Play streets
   
74.43   Motorized golf cart regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 74.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public or private vehicular right-of-way primarily designed to
serve as secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose
principal frontage is on some other street.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Fire department vehicles, police vehicles and
such ambulances and emergency vehicles of Town departments or public service
corporations as are designated or authorized by the Town Chief of Police.
   BICYCLE. Any foot-propelled vehicle, irrespective of the number of wheels in
contact with the ground, upon which any person or persons ride.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily for
the transportation of goods or property by a business.
   CROSSWALK. The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway. Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or
elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other
markings on the surface.
   DISTRICTS. The business and residential districts are hereby defined as
designated in the zoning ordinances of the Town which are now in effect, or
which may become effective in the future.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading and unloading of freight.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two highways which join one another at or approximately at right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways joining at any
other angle may come in conflict.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
attached to or propelled by a self-propelled vehicle.
   MOTORCYCLE. A motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a tractor.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this traffic code placed or erected by the authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic.
   PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, and whether or not
accompanied by an operator, for a period of time in excess of two minutes.
   PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE. A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. An officer of the Police Department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of
traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. A way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner and by those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a
highway includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY, as used
herein, shall refer to any such roadway separately, but not to all such
roadways collectively.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STOP, STOPPING or STANDING.
      (1)   When required, means complete cessation of movement.
      (2)   When prohibited, means any stopping or standing of a vehicle,
whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-
control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH-HIGHWAY. Any street or highway or portion thereof at the entrances
to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by
law to stop before entering or crossing the same and when stop signs are
erected as provided in this traffic code.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any street for the purposes
of travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. A device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
proceed, placed in accordance with the provisions of this traffic code.
   VEHICLE. Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved exclusively by human
power.
(2005 Code, § 61.01)
§ 74.02 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department or such
officers as are assigned by the Chief of Police to enforce all street traffic
laws of the Town and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic
in the Town.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department or such officers as are assigned by
the Chief of Police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand
or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided that, in the event of fire
or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers
of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department, when in uniform, may direct or assist
the police in directing traffic.
(2005 Code, § 61.02)
§ 74.03 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE.
   (A)   It is an infraction for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this chapter.
   (B)   Further, no person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any
lawful order or direction of a police officer or Fire Department official.
(2005 Code, § 61.03)
§ 74.04 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States Government, the state,
county or Town, and it shall be unlawful for any said driver to violate any of
the provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter
or by state statute.
(2005 Code, § 61.04)
§ 74.05 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES; RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when operating
any such vehicle in an emergency, may exercise the privileges set forth in this
section, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, but subject to the
conditions herein stated. Said driver may:
         (a)   Park or stand at any location;
         (b)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
         (c)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he or she does
not endanger life or property; and/or
         (d)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning
in specified directions.
      (2)   The exemptions herein granted shall apply only when the driver of
any said vehicle shall sound a bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be
reasonably necessary, and when the vehicle is equipped with at least one
lighted lamp displaying a red or blue light visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of 500 feet from the front of such vehicle; except
that, an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be
equipped with or display a red or blue light visible from in front of the
vehicle.
      (3)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of any
vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons,
nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of his or
her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(2005 Code, § 61.05)
   (B)   (1)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
displaying at least one lighted lamp exhibiting a red or blue light visible
from the front of such vehicle, and when said driver is giving audible signal
by siren, bell or exhaust whistle: the driver of every other vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to,
and as close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear
of any intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(2005 Code, § 61.06)
§ 74.06 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
property damage or injury to or death of any person shall immediately by the
quickest means of communication give notice of such accident to the Police
Department if such accident occurs within the Town.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an
accident resulting in property damage or injury to or the death of any person
shall, within five days after such accident forward a written report of such
accident to the Police Department, or a copy of any report he or she is
required to forward to the state. The provisions of this division (A)(2) shall
not be applicable when the accident has been investigated at the scene by a
police officer while such driver was present.
      (3)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of giving
immediate notice of an accident as required in this section and there was
another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the accident capable of doing
so, such occupant shall give, or cause to be given, the notice not given by the
driver.
      (4)   Whenever the driver is physically incapable of making a written
report of an accident as required herein and such driver is not the owner of
the vehicle, then the owner of the vehicle involved in such accident shall
within five days after learning of the accident make such report not made by
the driver.
(2005 Code, § 61.07)
   (B)   All written accident reports made by drivers, owners or occupants of
vehicles involved in accidents as required herein shall be without prejudice to
the individual so reporting and shall be for the confidential use of the Police
Department or other governmental agencies having use for the records for
accident prevention purposes; except that, the Police Department may disclose
the identity of a person involved in an accident when such identity is not
otherwise known or when such person denies his or her presence at such
accident. No such report shall be used as evidence in any trial, civil or
criminal, arising out of any accident; except that, the Department shall
furnish upon demand of any person who has, or claims to have, made such a
report or upon demand of any court, a certificate showing that a specified
accident report has or has not been made to the Police Department solely to
prove a compliance or a failure to comply with the requirements that such a
report to be made to the Department.
(2005 Code, § 61.08)
§ 74.07 ANIMAL RIDER AND PUSH CARTS.
   Every person propelling any push cart or riding an animal upon a roadway,
and every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except
those provisions of this chapter which, by their very nature, can have no
application.
(2005 Code, § 61.09)
§ 74.08 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   No driver of any vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any traffic-
control device placed in accordance with the ordinances of the Town, unless
otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to the exceptions herein
granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle.
(2005 Code, § 61.10)
§ 74.09 WHEN TRAFFIC DEVICES REQUIRED.
   No provision of this chapter for which signs or markings are required shall
be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged
violation an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section
does not state that signs are required, such section shall be effective even
though no signs are erected or in place.
(2005 Code, § 61.11)
§ 74.10 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS; LEGEND.
   (A)   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
the words “go”, “caution” or “stop”, or exhibiting different colored lights
successively, one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used and said terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles
and pedestrians as follows.
      (1)   Green alone or “go”. Vehicular traffic facing the signal may
proceed straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place
prohibits either such turn. But vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning
right or left, shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the
time such signal is exhibited. Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across
the roadway within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
      (2)   Yellow alone or “caution” when shown following the green or “go”
signal. Vehicular traffic facing the signal is hereby warned that the red or
“stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or “stop”
signal is exhibited. Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that
there is insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then
starting to cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
      (3)   Red alone or “stop”. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none,
then before entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or
“go” is shown alone. No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway
unless he or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular
traffic.
      (4)   Red with green arrow. Vehicular traffic facing the signal may
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow but shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection. No pedestrian
facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he or she can do so safely
and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (B)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable, except as to those provisions which by their
nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a stop or
marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the
absence of any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
(2005 Code, § 61.12)
§ 74.11 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“wait” or “don’t walk” are in place, such signals shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   “Walk”. Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway
in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the
drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   “Wait” or “don’t walk”. No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway
in the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed
his crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety zone
while the wait signal is showing.
(2005 Code, § 61.13)
§ 74.12 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a traffic
sign or signal, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red. When a red lens is illuminated with intermittent
flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk
at an intersection or at a limit line when marked or, if none, then before
entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject to the
rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow. When a yellow lens is illuminated with intermittent
flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the intersection or past such
signal only with caution.
(2005 Code, § 61.14)
STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS
§ 74.25 INTERFERENCE AND UNLAWFUL DISPLAY.
   (A)   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact
alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove any traffic-control device or any
inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any other part thereof.
(2005 Code, § 61.15)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of
any highway any unauthorized sign, marking or device which purports to be or is
an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device, or which
attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic-control device or any
sign or signal.
      (2)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
      (3)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon
private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional
information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
      (4)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(2005 Code, § 61.16)
§ 74.26 TURNING; AT INTERSECTIONS; LIMITATIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows.
   (A)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   The approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the
right half of the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and after entering the
intersection. The left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to
the right of the centerline of the roadway being entered.
   (C)   The approach for a left turn from a two-way street onto a one-way
street shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest
the centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection. A left turn from a one-way street onto a two-way
street shall be made by passing to the right of the centerline of the street
being entered upon leaving the intersection.
   (D)   Where both streets or roadways are one-way, both the approach for a
left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable to the left
hand curb or edge of the roadway.
(2005 Code, § 61.17)
§ 74.27 SPEED; STATE LAWS APPLICABLE.
   The state traffic laws regulating the speed of vehicles shall be applicable
upon all streets within the Town, except as the Town Council may declare and
determine upon the basis of engineering and traffic investigation that certain
speed regulations shall be applicable upon specified streets, in which event it
shall be prima facie unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in
excess of any speed so declared by the Board when signs are in place giving
notice thereof.
(2005 Code, § 61.18)
§ 74.28 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The Chief of Police shall place and maintain traffic-control signs, signals,
markers and devices when, and as required, under the traffic ordinances of the
Town to make effective the provisions of said ordinances, and may place and
maintain such additional traffic-control signs, signals, markers and devices as
he or she may deem necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic ordinances
of the Town or under state law, or to guide or warn traffic.
(2005 Code, § 61.19)
§ 74.29 U-TURNS.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction upon any street in a business district, and shall not
upon any other street so turn a vehicle unless such movement can be made in
safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(2005 Code, § 61.20)
§ 74.30 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys and parts of
alleys which have been designated as one-way streets or alleys, vehicular
traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when signs indicating the
direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where
movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(2005 Code, § 61.21)
§ 74.31 STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Every stop sign erected pursuant to this article shall bear the word
“stop” in letters not less than eight inches in height, and every yield sign
shall bear the word “yield” in letters not less than seven inches in height.
Such signs shall at nighttime be rendered luminous by efficient reflecting
elements on the face of the sign, or by internal or external illumination.
Every stop and yield sign shall be located as near as practicable to the
nearest line of the cross walk on the near side of the intersection or, if
none, at the nearest line of the roadway.
(2005 Code, § 61.22)
   (B)   When stop signs are erected, as provided for in this traffic code, at
or near the entrance to an intersection, a driver of a vehicle shall stop his
or her vehicle at such sign or at a clearly marked stop line of the crosswalk
on the near side of the intersection or, if no crosswalk, at the nearest line
of the roadway. Only after making a complete stop may the driver of a vehicle
proceed into the intersection, and then only after yielding to other vehicles
not so obliged to stop.
(2005 Code, § 61.23)
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle upon approaching an intersection where there
is placed a “yield” sign shall stop his vehicle or slow it down or shall so
control his vehicle so as to yield the right-of-way to any approaching vehicles
which are so close as to constitute an immediate hazard. Only after having so
yielded or having stopped in order to yield may the driver then proceed.
(2005 Code, § 61.24)
§ 74.32 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, sound his or her horn, yielding
the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision and,
upon entering the roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on said roadway.
(2005 Code, § 61.25)
§ 74.33 OBSTRUCTION OF INTERSECTION.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(2005 Code, § 61.26)
§ 74.34 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS.
   No driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall follow
any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500 feet
or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus has
stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(2005 Code, § 61.27)
§ 74.35 CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department
when laid down on any street, alley or driveway without the consent of the Fire
Department official in command.
(2005 Code, § 61.28)
§ 74.36 FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to
the right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle
ahead as closely as is practical and safe.
   (B)   A funeral procession shall be identified as such by the display upon
the outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other identifying insignia or by
such other method as may be determined and designated by the Police Department.
   (C)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a
funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such
vehicles are conspicuously designated as required in division (B) above. This
provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by
traffic- control signals or police officers.
(2005 Code, § 61.29)
§ 74.37 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area, except
at a permanent or temporary driveway.
(2005 Code, § 61.30)
§ 74.38 BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(2005 Code, § 61.31)
§ 74.39 MOTORCYCLES.
   A person operating a motorcycle shall not ride other than upon a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto or carry any other person, except upon a
firmly attached seat to the operator’s rear or sides. No person shall ride upon
a motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached seat to the rear or side of the
operator.
(2005 Code, § 61.32)
§ 74.40 ATTACHING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon a
roadway.
(2005 Code, § 61.33)
§ 74.41 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No person shall ride upon any portion of a vehicle not designed or intended
for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to any employee
engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or to persons riding within truck
bodies in space intended for merchandise.
(2005 Code, § 61.34)
§ 74.42 PLAY STREETS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall have the authority to declare any street or
part thereof a play street and to place appropriate signs or devices in the
roadway indicating and helping to protect the same.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part
thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street
or portion thereof, except drivers of vehicles having business or whose
residences are within such closed area, and then any said driver shall exercise
the greatest care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof.
(2005 Code, § 61.35)
§ 74.43 MOTORIZED GOLF CART REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   This section is adopted in the interest of public safety. Golf
carts are not designed or manufactured to be used on public streets and roads,
and the town does not advocate or endorse the use and operation of such on the
town streets. All persons operating golf carts must be observant of, and
attentive to, the safety of themselves and others, including, but not limited
to, passengers, other motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians.
      (2)   All persons who choose to operate a golf cart or ride as a
passenger within the town do so at their own peril, and the town assumes no
liability for the operation of golf carts within the town.
      (3)   This section does not authorize any other vehicle, including, but
not limited to, ATVs, go-carts, lawn mowers, off-terrain vehicles, or motorized
wheelchairs, to operate on the streets, roads, highways, and alleys of the
town. This section only allows the operation of golf carts on streets, roads,
highways, and alleys under the jurisdiction of the town.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AUTHORIZED STREETS. All such streets, roads, highways, and alleys within
the corporate limits of the town that are under the town's jurisdiction and
which have been authorized for golf cart travel. The designation of authorized
streets is subject to amendment from time to time by the Town Council. State
and federal highways and county roads are not authorized streets under this
section.
      DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license valid for the operation of a motor vehicle on
public roads and highways in the State of Indiana, which such is issued by the
State of Indiana or another state.
      FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability coverage applicable to the golf cart
compliant with the provisions of this section. The financial responsibility
obligation is greater than required by Indiana law applicable to motor vehicles
operated on the public highways of the State of Indiana.
      GOLF CART. A four-wheeled motor vehicle, that is not capable of exceeding
speeds of 25 miles per hour in ordinary operation, and was originally
specifically designed and intended to transport one or more individuals and
golf clubs for the purpose of playing the game of golf on a course specifically
used for golf or as modified by adding a second bench seat.
      WALKERTON GOLF CART PERMIT (WGCP).  The permit required for any golf cart
operating on the streets of the town pursuant to this section.
   (C)   Permitted use; time of operation; rule of operation.
      (1)   Manner of operation, in general. No person shall operate a golf
cart within the town except as hereinafter provided.
      (2)   Registration required. No person may operate a golf cart on any
street, road, highway, or alley within the town without first registering the
golf cart as described in division (F) of this section.
      (3)   Negligent or reckless operation prohibited.  No person shall
operate a golf cart in a negligent or reckless manner so as to endanger the
operator or person or property of another or to cause injury or damage thereto.
      (4)   Towing.  No person shall use a golf cart vehicle to tow any other
item, vehicle, or thing whatsoever; with the exception however, that this
prohibition is not intended to apply to official participants in parades,
festivals, or similar special events.
      (5)   Under-age operation prohibited.  Operation of golf carts on any
public street, road, highway, or alley by any individual who is not properly
licensed to operate a motor vehicle in the State of Indiana is prohibited.
      (6)   Time of operation. No person may operate a golf cart on any street,
road, highway, or alley in the town between sunset and sunrise, unless the
vehicle has a night time WGCP. No golf cart may be operated in the town after
11:00 p.m.
      (7)   Operation prohibited when visibility is impaired. No person may
operate a golf cart on a street, road, highway, or alley in the town during any
weather event or similar event where visibility is impaired by fog, heavy rain,
smoke, or when there is insufficient light making it impossible to see a person
or vehicle on the roadway at a distance of 300 feet or more.
      (8)   Compliance with rules of the road. All golf carts shall operate
cautiously and courteously, and shall comply with all rules of the road as set
forth by the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles or as otherwise set forth in
Indiana law, including traffic patterns and operating the vehicle on the right
side of the road.
      (9)   Yielding right-of-way. Golf carts shall yield the right-of-way to
faster moving vehicles, and shall not obstruct traffic flow, by pulling off to
the right side of the roadway if needed to permit faster moving vehicles to
pass.
      (10)    Maximum occupancy, passenger conduct. The number of persons
traveling in a golf cart on a town street, road, highway, or alley shall not
exceed the amount of seating available in the vehicle. No object or person's
body part shall project from the vehicle when the vehicle is in motion. All
children shall be properly supervised by an adult. No person shall stand while
the golf cart is in motion.
      (11)   Parking.  Golf carts shall comply with the provisions of
Chapter 75 of this code pertaining to parking of motor vehicles. Golf carts
may, however, share a parking space with one other golf cart so long as there
is no encroachment on another parking space.
   (D)   Required equipment. 
      (1)   The following minimum requirements apply to each golf cart operated
on the town streets, roads, highways, and alleys and no WGCP may be issued to a
vehicle that is not in compliance with these minimum requirements:
         (a)   Brakes in good working condition;
         (b)   INDOT approved slow moving vehicle sign affixed to the vehicle
in accordance with Indiana law (to the rear of the vehicle); and
         (c)   Golf carts must be equipped with:
            1.   A rear view mirror;
            2.   A manufacturer's serial number;
            3.   Front and rear reflectors;
            4.   Working rear brake lights visible from a minimum distance of
500 feet; and
            5.   Any additional equipment required by the town or State of
Indiana by regulation or rule.
      (2)   If the golf cart is to be driven at night, golf cart must be
equipped with two operating headlights, with one on each side of the golf cart,
and two operating tail lights with brake lights, with one on each side of the
vehicle, both of which must be visible from a distance of 500 feet.
   (E)   License required. Golf carts may only be operated by persons who hold
a valid motor vehicle operator's license which is issued by the State of
Indiana or another state.
   (F)   Golf cart registration; insurance.
      (1)   Registration required. In order to operate a golf cart on any town
street, road, highway, or alley, registration of the golf cart is required and
placement of a Walkerton Golf Cart Permit ("WGCP") must be affixed to the front
driver's side area of the golf cart. The WGCP must be affixed to the golf cart
whenever it is operated on streets, roads, highways, or alleys of the town.
Vehicle authorized for night time operation will have a different colored
sticker when the WGCP is issued that must be affixed to the front driver's side
of the vehicle. The WGCP shall be valid for one calendar year.
      (2)   Annual fee. The annual fee for each golf cart permit shall be fixed
at $25 for a day time only WGCP, which shall be due at the time of
registration, or $30 for a day and night time WGCP, which shall be due at the
time of registration.
      (3)   Inspection. Prior to each WGCP issuance, the Police Department or
his/her appointee shall complete an inspection of the golf cart to ensure the
golf cart complies with all requirements of the town and State of Indiana and a
written report of inspection shall be completed by the Police Department.
      (4)   Registration and inspection location. Registration and inspection
of golf carts shall occur, by appointment, at the Police Department, 300
Illinois Street, Walkerton, Indiana 46574.
      (5)   Disqualification. No WGCP shall be issued to any person who was
cited and convicted of WGCP violation within the previous 12 months.
      (6)   Operation without a WGCP. No person shall operate a golf cart on
any town street, road, highway, or alley without a WGCP. Any person who
operates a golf cart on a town street, road, highway, or alley without a WGCP
will be in violation of this section and subject to the penalties set forth
below, and also subject to all Indiana State Laws.
      (7)   Application form and procedures. To initiate an application for
WGCP, golf cart owners must complete the "Application to Operate Golf Cart" and
provide proof of liability insurance. Applicants will also arrange with the
Police Department for an inspection of the golf cart. Completed forms and
documentation of insurance shall be maintained by the Police Department.
      (8)   Insurance and proof of insurance. No person shall operate a golf
cart on the streets, roads, highways, or alleys of the town if financial
responsibility is not in effect with respect to the golf cart. A person who
operates a golf cart on the streets, roads, highways, and alleys of the town
shall, at all times, maintain insurance for the operation of said golf cart in
the following amounts:
         (a)   One hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) for bodily injury to or
the death of one individual;
         (b)   Five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) for bodily injury to or
the death of two or more individuals in any one accident; and
         (c)   Twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) for damage to or the
destruction of property in one accident.
      (9)   Proof of insurance. No WGCP may be issued to any applicant without
valid proof of liability insurance as approved by the Police Department. Proof
of insurance must be kept on the golf cart along with the WGCP.
      (10)   Uniqueness. A WGCP is unique to a single, specific golf cart and
may not be used to act as a WGCP for any other vehicle other than the golf cart
for which the WGCP was issued.
      (11)   Any golf cart permits issued by another entity will still be
required to be registered by the town. The operator and passengers of the golf
cart shall still be subject to the rules and regulations as outlined in this
section.
   (G)   Designation of roadway.
      (1)   Traffic rules and regulations. Operators of golf carts shall follow
and remain compliant with all applicable Indiana State Laws, which govern the
use of public roads, including laws that prohibit or regulate the use or
possession of alcoholic beverages, controlled substances, and illegal drugs.
Operators shall further comply with all laws prohibiting the operation of a
motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol or drugs.
      (2)   Operation on public sidewalk prohibited. No golf cart shall be
operated on a public sidewalk, nor operated on that portion of the road located
between the curb line and the sidewalk or property line referred to as the
parking area except for the purposes of crossing the same to a public street
upon which operation is authorized under this section. Further, no golf carts
shall be operated on any walking path or park in the town.
   (H)   Removal of debris. Anyone removing a wrecked or damaged golf cart from
a street or highway must also remove any glass or foreign material from the
golf cart.
   (I)   Enforcement of fines.
      (1)   Any act or omission constituting a violation of this section, which
shall include failure to comply with or to maintain compliance with any
requirements herein delineated, constitutes a violation of this section. A
person convicted of a violation of this section shall be subject to a fine of
$200 per violation.
      (2)   Each day any violation of this section occurs will constitute a
separate violation of this section, and the violator shall be fined an
additional fine of $25 per day. All fines and fees shall be payable to the town
and paid to the Town Court.
   (J)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Town government activities. Employees, agents, and officials of
Town Government, if and while engaged in town government business, are exempt
from the application of this section.
      (2)   Parades, festivals, and special events. Subject to the discretion
of the Town Council, temporary exceptions to the rules set forth in this
section may be granted to official participants in parades, festivals, or other
special events.
   (K)   Implementation; liability. The intent of this section shall not be
construed as a representation, opinion, claim, warrant, or guarantee that
operating any particular golf cart on any town street, road, highway, or alley
is safe, advisable, or that any person is competent to so operate such a golf
cart. The town, the Town Council, the Chief of Police, and any town employees
assume no liability after issuing a WGCP. The town expressly disclaims any
liability for personal injury, death, property damage, and other losses caused
or alleged to be caused or incurred by any person due to, or alleged to be due
to, the operation of a golf cart on a town street, road, highway, or alley.
(Ord. 2017-9, passed 1-8-2018)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
75.01   Method of parking
   
75.02   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited generally
   
75.03   Parking in alleys
   
75.04   Night parking prohibited
   
75.05   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
75.06   Parking prohibited on certain streets
   
75.07   Parking in congested locations
   
75.08   Parking on one-way roads
   
75.09   Municipal off-street parking
   
75.10   Parking limited
   
75.11   Parking for sale, washing or merchandise prohibited
   
75.12   Mobile homes and house trailers
Impoundment
   
75.25   Authority to impound
   
75.26   Notice of impoundment
   
75.27   Cost of impoundment
Snow Emergencies
   
75.40   Definitions
   
75.41   Parking on snow emergency routes
   
75.42   Parking on primary, secondary snow emergency routes
   
75.43   Condition of motor vehicles
   
75.44   Stalled vehicles
   
75.45   Declaration of snow emergency
   
75.46   Termination of parking prohibition
   
75.47   Interpretation
   
75.48   Impounded vehicles
   
75.49   Evidence
 
   
75.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 75.01 METHOD OF PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than
parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic
movement and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the
curb or edge of the roadway, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, no person shall stand or park a
vehicle on the left hand side of a one-way street other than parallel with the
edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and with
the left-hand wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the curb or edge of the
roadway.
   (C)   (1)   Upon those streets which have been signed or marked by the Chief
of Police for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than
at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or
markings.
      (2)   The vehicle must enter the parking space with a forward movement.
(2005 Code, § 62.01)
§ 75.02 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED GENERALLY.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions
of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk or between sidewalk and curb;
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
   (G)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (H)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless the
Chief of Police has indicated a different length by signs or markings;
   (I)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   (J)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the
side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of
said entrance (when sign properly posted);
   (K)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (L)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
   (M)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within a
highway tunnel;
   (N)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
   (O)   On the traveled portion of any roadway, which does not have a curb or
gutter, when such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic. No
person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control into any such
prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful; and/or
   (P)   In the front yard in a residential district, unless there is no other
parking option available.
(2005 Code, § 62.02)
§ 75.03 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of
the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such
position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(2005 Code, § 62.03)
§ 75.04 NIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No person, except physicians on emergency calls, shall park a vehicle on any
street in the central business district for a period of time longer than 30
minutes between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. of any day.
(2005 Code, § 62.04)
§ 75.05 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any street or highway for the principal
purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except for repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
(2005 Code, § 62.05)
§ 75.06 PARKING PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating no
parking up either or both sides of any street adjacent to any school property
when such parking would, in his or her opinion, interfere with traffic or
create a hazardous situation. When official signs are erected indicating no
parking upon such streets, no person shall park a vehicle in any such
designated place. The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to erect signs
indicating no parking upon any street when the width of the roadway does not
exceed 20 feet, or upon one side of a street as indicated by such signs when
the width of the roadway does not exceed 33 feet. When official signs
prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow streets as authorized herein, no
person shall park a vehicle upon any such street in violation of any such sign.
The Chief of Police is authorized to erect signs upon either or both sides of
any one-way street to prohibit the standing or parking of vehicles; and, when
such signs are in place, no person shall stand or park a vehicle upon such side
in violation of any such sign. The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to
prohibit parking on either or both sides of any street in the Town between the
hours and on days of the week specified by him or her, and to erect signs so
indicating.
(2005 Code, § 62.06)
§ 75.07 PARKING IN CONGESTED LOCATIONS.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley, in such
a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of
the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic. The Chief of
Police is hereby authorized to determine and designate by proper signs places
not exceeding 150 feet in length in which the stopping, standing or parking of
vehicles would create an especially hazardous condition or would cause unusual
delay in traffic. When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested
places as authorized herein, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in
any such designated place.
(2005 Code, § 62.07)
§ 75.08 PARKING ON ONE-WAY ROADWAYS.
   In the event a highway includes two or more separate roadways and traffic is
restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon either or both sides of such one-way roadway unless signs
are erected to permit such standing or parking. The Chief of Police is
authorized to determine when standing or parking may be permitted upon the side
of any such one-way roadway and to erect signs giving notice thereof.
(2005 Code, § 62.08)
§ 75.09 MUNICIPAL OFF-STREET PARKING.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to erect signs in “off-street”
parking areas maintained by the Town designating parking time limits in certain
portions so designated and the time limits adopted by resolution of the Town
Council.
(2005 Code, § 62.09)
§ 75.10 PARKING TIME LIMITED.
   (A)   Posted areas. When appropriate signs are erected in “off-street”
parking areas giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer
than the time specified.
(2005 Code, § 62.10)
   (B)   Parking limited. No person shall park or leave a vehicle unattended
for more than 24 hours in any municipal “off-street” parking area, nor shall
any person park or leave unattended a disabled or inoperable vehicle or a
vehicle with an expired license or registration in any municipal “off-street”
parking area.
(2005 Code, § 62.11)
§ 75.11 PARKING FOR SALE, WASHING OR MAINTENANCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park any motor vehicle, motorcycle, truck trailer, semi-
trailer, tractor, farm tractor, bus, school bus, house car or farm machinery on
any street, alley, roadway or highway for any of the following purposes:
   (A)   Displaying the vehicle for sale, trade, exchange or storage. STORAGE
means parking of new or used motor vehicles on public streets, alleys, roadways
or highways by new or used motor vehicle dealers or garage owners or operators;
and/or
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle, except for repairs
necessitated by breakdown, accident or other emergency to the extent necessary
to remove the vehicle from the street, alley, roadway or highway.
(2005 Code, § 62.50)
§ 75.12 MOBILE HOMES AND HOUSE TRAILERS.
   (A)   From and after passage of this section, it shall be unlawful to park a
house trailer, mobile home, house car, house bus or other portable housing
facility upon any lot or land within the corporate limits of the Town with the
intention of residing therein or as provision for others to reside therein for
a period of more than two weeks unless such lot or land shall have first been
approved by the State Board of Health as a “mobile home park” and all
conditions and facilities required by state law have first been provided.
(2005 Code, § 62.71)
   (B)   Each day a violation shall be and constitute a separate and specific
offense.
(2005 Code, § 62.72)
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 75.25 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND.
   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to remove a vehicle
from a street or highway to the nearest garage or other place of safety or to a
garage designated or maintained by the Police Department or otherwise
maintained by the Town under the following circumstances:
   (A)   When a vehicle is found unattended in any place as may be prohibited
by this chapter;
   (B)   When a vehicle upon a highway is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of such vehicle are,
by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to
provide for its custody or removal;
   (C)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street or alley or is so
parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic;
   (D)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street, alley or municipal
parking lot and is parked illegally or parked in a place as may be prohibited
by this chapter and such vehicle interferes with snow plowing, snow removal,
leaf removal, street cleaning or maintenance of streets or public utilities;
and
   (E)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a municipal parking lot and
remains there 24 hours after being tagged with a notice to remove by the Police
Department or such vehicle is inoperable, disabled or not currently licensed
and registered.
(2005 Code, § 62.12)
§ 75.26 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a street as authorized in this
section, or other place as is authorized in this section and the officer knows
or is able to ascertain from the registration records in the vehicle the name
and address of the owner thereof, such officer shall immediately give, or cause
to be given, notice in writing to such owner of the fact of such removal and
the reasons therefore and the place to which such vehicle has been removed. In
the event any such vehicle is stored in a public garage, a copy of such notice
shall be given to the proprietor of such garage.
(2005 Code, § 62.13)
§ 75.27 COST OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   The cost of such removal and the cost of such storage shall be borne by the
owner thereof and such vehicle shall be entitled to be held until such costs
are paid in full.
(2005 Code, § 62.14)
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 75.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRIMARY SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES. Those streets generally traversing the Town
and which are considered essential to the rapid movement of emergency vehicles
which normally carry the heaviest traffic volumes.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular traffic, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
   SECONDARY SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES. Those streets which provide access to
primary snow emergency routes and are frequently used by emergency vehicles.
   SNOW TIRES. Tires mounted on drive wheels of motor vehicles which are
specifically designed to give effective traction on snow, mud or ice-covered
streets by means of extra heavy-duty treads with special high-traction;
however, no tires so defined shall be construed to be a SNOW TIRE if it is
damaged or worn to the extent that its performance would be substantially
impaired.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way,
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic, including street parking easements.
   TIRE CHAINS. Any metal chains mounted on drive wheel tires of motor vehicles
which cross the tread of each tire laterally in at least three different
places.
(2005 Code, § 62.21)
§ 75.41 PARKING ON SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (A)   Whenever the Town Council President, Public Works Director or
Walkerton Chief of Police finds, on the basis of falling snow, sleet or
freezing rain, or on the basis of a forecast by the National Weather Service or
other weather service of snow, sleet or freezing rain, that weather conditions
will make it necessary that motor vehicle traffic be expedited and that parking
on Town streets be prohibited or restricted for snow plowing or other purposes,
he or she shall put into effect the parking prohibition on primary snow
emergency routes, as necessary, by declaring it in the manner prescribed in
this subchapter.
   (B)   Once in effect, a prohibition under this section shall remain in
effect until the street has been cleared. If an additional four inches or more
of snow or ice has accumulated, then the parking prohibition shall
automatically take effect again. While the prohibition is in effect, no person
shall park or allow to remain parked any vehicle on any which it applies.
(2005 Code, § 62.22)
§ 75.42 PARKING ON PRIMARY, SECONDARY SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the Town Council President, Public Works Director or
Walkerton Chief of Police finds, on the basis of falling snow, sleet, or
freezing rain, or on the basis of a forecast by the National Weather Service or
other weather service of snow, sleet or freezing rain, that weather conditions
will make it necessary that motor vehicle traffic be expedited and that the
parking on Town streets be prohibited or restricted from snow plowing, safety
or other purposes, he or she shall put into effect a parking prohibition on the
secondary snow emergency routes as necessary by declaring in a manner
prescribed by this subchapter.
      (2)   Once in effect, a prohibition under this section shall remain in
effect until terminated by announcement by the Town Council President in
accordance with this subchapter. While the prohibition is in effect, no person
shall park or allow to remain parked, any vehicle in any portion of a secondary
snow emergency route to which it applies.
(2005 Code, § 62.23)
   (B)   (1)   The following streets or portions of streets within the Town are
designated as primary snow emergency routes:
         (a)   The Town street commonly referred to as Highway 6 and the Town
street commonly referred to as S.R. 23 all running within the Town limits; and
         (b)   Washington Street between Highway 6 and S.R. 23; and Michigan
Street running between Highway 6 to Washington Street.
      (2)   All other streets or portions of street within the Town are
designated as secondary snow emergency routes.
(2005 Code, § 62.32)
   (C)   (1)   Primary and secondary snow emergency routes may be designated by
resolution of the Town Council.
      (2)   All secondary snow emergency routes will be plowed and cleared
first for traffic. Upon such streets after the initial plowing and clearing and
24 hours after the initial snow or ice accumulation, said streets will be open
and cleared back to the curb on an odd/even basis. The Town will open up the
odd numbered side of the secondary snow emergency routes first and all cars and
other vehicles shall be removed from said side of the street 24 hours after
said snow accumulation so that said street can be cleared back to the curb.
Secondary snow emergency routes shall then be plowed and cleared back to the
curb on the even numbered side of the streets. It shall be unlawful for anyone
to park any motor vehicle on the even numbered side of the street after the odd
numbered side of the street has been cleared.
(2005 Code, § 62.33)
§ 75.43 CONDITION OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on a primary
snow emergency route on which there is a covering of snow, sleet or ice, which
shall allow the vehicle to become stalled. It shall be unlawful for any person
operating a motor vehicle on a primary snow emergency route on which there is a
covering of snow, sleet or ice, upon which there is a parking prohibition in
effect to allow the vehicle to become stalled because motor fuel is exhausted
or the battery has become inoperative.
(2005 Code, § 62.24)
§ 75.44 STALLED VEHICLES.
   Whenever a vehicle becomes stalled for any reason, whether or not in
violation of this subchapter, or any part of a primary snow emergency route
during a declared snow emergency when a parking prohibition is in effect, the
person operating the vehicle shall take immediate action to have the vehicle
pushed or towed off the roadway and the primary snow-emergency route. No person
shall abandon or leave his or her vehicle in the roadway of a primary snow
emergency route regardless of whether he or she indicates, by reasons or
otherwise, that the vehicle is stalled, except for the purpose of securing
assistance during the actual time necessary to go to a nearby telephone or to a
nearby garage, gasoline station or other place of assistance and return without
delay. In no event shall a vehicle be abandoned for the purpose of getting
assistance for more than 30 minutes. Operators of vehicles must notify or
contact the Police Department within 30 minutes that they have secured service
or have been promised service or assistance to occur within a reasonable time.
(2005 Code, § 62.25)
§ 75.45 DECLARATION OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   In the event that the Town Council President, Public Works Director or
Walkerton Chief of Police determines because of weather conditions listed in §
75.43 of this chapter make it necessary to have motor vehicle traffic expedited
in the Town and parking prohibited, he or she may declare a snow emergency. The
Town Council President, Public Works Director or Walkerton Chief of Police
shall cause such declaration made pursuant to this subchapter to be publicly
announced by means of broadcast or telecast from stations with a normal
operating range covering the Town, and he or she may cause the declaration to
be further announced in newspapers of general circulation when feasible. Each
announcement shall describe the action taken by the Town Council President,
Superintendent of Streets or Walkerton Chief of Police including the time it
became or will become effective, and shall specify the streets where it is
effective. A designation of primary, secondary or snow emergency route shall be
sufficient designation of the streets to be effective. A parking prohibition
declared by the Town Council President shall specify whether it is applicable
to primary snow emergency routes only or both primary and secondary snow
emergency routes and shall not go into effect until at least two hours after it
has been announced or at least two times between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on
any day. Confirmation of a snow emergency can be obtained from the Town
dispatcher.
   (B)   The Town Council President shall make or cause to be made a record of
each time and date when any declaration is announced to the public in
accordance with this section.
(2005 Code, § 62.26)
§ 75.46 TERMINATION OF PARKING PROHIBITION.
   Whenever the Town Council President or Walkerton Chief of Police shall find
that some or all of the conditions which give rise to a parking prohibition in
effect because of the snow emergency declared pursuant to the terms of this
subchapter no longer exist, he or she may declare the prohibition terminated,
in whole or in part, in the manner prescribed by this subchapter, effective
immediately upon announcement.
(2005 Code, § 62.27)
§ 75.47 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Any provision of this subchapter which becomes effective by
declaration of the Town Council President upon the occurrence of certain
weather conditions shall, while temporarily in effect, take precedent over
other conflicting provisions of the law normally in effect.
   (B)   However, it shall not take precedent over provisions of the law
relating to traffic accidents, emergency travel of authorized emergency
vehicles or emergency traffic directions by a police officer.
(2005 Code, § 62.28)
§ 75.48 IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   Any vehicle parking on a primary or secondary snow emergency route in
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter may be impounded by the
Town police and no person shall recover any vehicle removed pursuant to this
section without first paying the costs of removal and the cost of storage. Any
payments required by this section shall not be construed as a penalty so as to
preclude prosecution for violation in the provisions of this subchapter.
(2005 Code, § 62.30)
§ 75.49 EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In any prosecution with regard to a vehicle parked or left in a place
where any condition in violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter
prove that the particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked or left
in violation of a provision of this subchapter, together with proof that the
defendant named in the complaint was at the time the registered owner of the
vehicle, shall constitute prima fascia evidence that the defendant was the
person responsible for having the vehicle parked or left in violation of this
subchapter.
   (B)   It is the specific intent of this provision to make the owner of a
motor vehicle responsible for the use and operation of the motor vehicle
regardless of who actually parks the vehicle in violation of this subchapter
for it is the owner who has control over who drives or operates his or her
motor vehicle.
(2005 Code, § 62.31)
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
pursuant to the Appendix: Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 62.15)
   (B)   (1)   Violation of §
75.12 of this chapter by any person, firm or corporation shall be punishable by
a fine pursuant to the Appendix: Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 62.73)
      (2)   From and after passage hereof, any person, firm or corporation who
furnishes utilities to such mobile home while in use in violation of §
75.12 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
pursuant to the Appendix: Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 62.74)
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
75.40 through
75.49 of this chapter shall be fined pursuant to the Appendix: Fines and
Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 62.34)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   JUNK AND ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
93.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION; FIREWORKS
      
95.   FAIR HOUSING; EQUAL OPPORTUNITY HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Weeds
   
90.01   Administration
   
90.02   Definition
   
90.03   Obnoxious weeds prohibited
   
90.04   Notice
   
90.05   Town to cut weeds
WEEDS
§ 90.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Walkerton Police Department shall be responsible for administration of
this chapter.
§ 90.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RANK, NOXIOUS AND TROUBLESOME VEGETATION OR WEEDS. Shall not exceed ten
inches in height and are as follows:
      (1)   Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense);
      (2)   Johnson grass and sorghum allium (Sorghous halepeuse);
      (3)   Bur cucumber (Sicyos angulatus);
      (4)   Marijuana (Cannabis sativa);
      (5)   Ragweed;
      (6)   Milkweed; and
      (7)   All such vegetation that is not generally cultivated for lawns,
landscaping, gardens, decoration or farming including, but not limited to,
briars, brambles, horseweed, brush thistles, tall grasses and other weeds which
have an adverse effect on agricultural production or cultivation or provide
harborage for rodents or other pests.
§ 90.03 NOXIOUS WEEDS PROHIBITED.
   No owner or occupant of any real estate within the Town shall permit any
obnoxious or troublesome weeds to grow or mature upon premises owned or
occupied by such person, or upon, in or along any of the sidewalks, streets or
alleys adjoining the same.
(2005 Code, § 75.01)
§ 90.04 NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the Police Department determines that violation of this
chapter exists, it shall give the owner (as determined by real estate tax
records of the county) written notice of the violation at the address real
estate taxes are billed, by regular United States mail, and post a copy on the
premises. The owner shall have days to abate the violation or appeal the same
to the Town Council. In the event of an adverse ruling by the Town Council, the
owner shall have ten days from the date of the decision to abate the violation.
   (B)   Whenever the municipality, after such notice, shall proceed to mow or
otherwise abate the violation, the Town shall send the owner a bill at the same
address as the notice above for the expenses related thereto and the owner
shall have 30 days to pay the same or appear the same as provided herein to the
Town Council. A bill not paid within 30 days of issuance or of the
determination of the appear shall be collected as provided in §
90.05 below.
§ 90.05 TOWN TO CUT WEEDS.
   If the owner of any real estate within the Town fails to destroy weeds
prohibited by §
90.02 of this chapter, it shall be the duty of the Town Council to employ some
suitable person to cut down and destroy such weeds. The expenses incurred with
regard to weed cutting by order of the Town Council shall be a lien against
such premises and may be entered upon the tax duplicate and collected as other
taxes, or such lien may be foreclosed against the premises as in the case of
mortgages.
(2005 Code, § 75.02)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Inspections
   
91.03   Barking dogs
Standards and Conditions
   
91.15   General animal care requirements
   
91.16   Sale of animals as novelties; use as prizes; exception
   
91.17   Motor vehicle accidents involving animals
   
91.18   Animals in motor vehicles
   
91.19   Poisoning animals
   
91.20   Trapping animals prohibited
   
91.21   Maximum number of dogs and cats
   
91.22   Acreage requirements
   
91.23   Prohibition of swine
   
91.24   Animal waste, dead animal removals
   
91.25   Animal bites and reports
   
91.26   Vaccination of dogs and cats
   
91.27   Interference with humane officer prohibited
   
91.28   Adopted animals; spaying and neutering
   
91.29   “Seeing eye” and “hearing” dogs prohibited
   
91.30   Confinement by other than Town officials; notice required
   
91.31   Breaking into animal shelter prohibited
   
91.32   Dangerous or poisonous animals prohibited
   
91.33   Impounding procedures
Permits, Registrations and Fees
   
91.45   Controlled animal permit
   
91.46   Pet shop/breeder permit
   
91.47   Dangerous animal/attack dog permit
   
91.48   Animal performance/exhibition permit
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To deposit, leave, drop off or otherwise dispose of any live
domestic animal without providing immediate humane care on any public or
private property.
   AGENT. Person(s) 18 years or older authorized by an owner to act in the
owner’s behalf.
   ALTERED ANIMAL. Any animal that has been operated on to prevent it from
procreating.
   ANIMAL. Any live non-human vertebrate creature, domestic, wild or exotic.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AGENCY. Any governmental or private entity charged with or
contracted with the given authority for the enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter for and on behalf of the Town.
   ANIMAL PERFORMANCES OR EXHIBITIONS. Any spectacle, performance, display,
act, exhibition or event in which an animal or animals are used.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. A facility or vehicle operated by a governmental or private
entity for the purpose of providing or promoting animal welfare and humane
treatment of animals.
   AT LARGE. Any animal that is not under restraint and not on the animal
owners’ property.
   ATTACK DOG. Any dog trained to attack upon command or those which do attack
or have attacked another animal or human being upon command. This definition is
intended to cover dogs bred for fighting, and shall include, but not be limited
to, the breed of dog commonly referred to as the American Pit Bull, or American
Pit Bull Terrier, or Pit Bull Terrier, or cross-breeds therewith, which breed
is hereby found and considered to be unsafe and potentially hazardous to the
citizens of the Town. This definition excludes K-9 Corps dogs in use by the law
enforcement agencies.
   AUCTION. Any place or facility where animals are regularly bought, sold or
traded by means of auction sale, except for those facilities otherwise defined
in this chapter or state law.
   BREEDER. Any person, for-profit business or corporation which harbors or
keeps dogs and/or cats, and allows or causes those animals to procreate for the
purpose of selling said animals for profit.
   CONTROLLED ANIMAL. Any animal not defined as a domestic animal in this
chapter, with the exception of small, non-poisonous aquatic or non-poisonous
amphibious animals, non-poisonous reptilian and caged birds, and possession of
which requires a valid Town controlled animal permit. Such CONTROLLED ANIMALS
shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   All poisonous animals, including rear-fang snakes;
      (2)   Apes: chimpanzees (Pan), gibbons (Hylobates), gorillas (Gorilla),
orangutans (Pongo) and siamangs (Symphalangus);
      (3)   Baboons (Papoe, Mandrilluis);
      (4)   Bears (Ursidae);
      (5)   Bison (Bison);
      (6)   Bobcats;
      (7)   Cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus);
      (8)   Crocodilians (Crocodilia);
      (9)   Constrictor snakes, including, but not limited to, boa, python and
anaconda;
      (10)   Coyotes (Canis latrans);
      (11)   Deer (Cervidae), includes all member of the deer family, for
example, white-tailed deer, elk, antelope and moose;
      (12)   Elephants (Elephas and Loxodonta);
      (13)   Game cocks and other fighting birds;
      (14)   Hippopotami (Hippopotamidae);
      (15)   Hyenas (Hyaenidae);
      (16)   Jaguars (Panthera onca);
      (17)   Leopards (Panthera pardus);
      (18)   Lions (Panthera leo);
      (19)   Lynxes (Lynx);
      (20)   Monkeys;
      (21)   Ostriches (Struthio);
      (22)   Piranha fish (Characidae);
      (23)   Pumas (Felis concolor); also known as cougars, mountain lions and
panthers;
      (24)   Rhinoceroses (Rhinocero tidae);
      (25)   Sharks (class Chondrichthyes);
      (26)   Snow Leopards (Panthera uncial);
      (27)   Spiders and insects which are poisonous;
      (28)   Tigers (Panthera tigris); and
      (29)   Wolves (Canis lupus).
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any animal:
         (a)   That has, off its owner’s property, attacked another animal or
livestock;
         (b)   Which has attacked or which has attempted to attack, unprovoked,
any human being, whether on or off the owner’s property;
         (c)   Which has bitten or attacked a person, causing wounds or
injuries creating a potential danger to the health and life of the victim; or
         (d)   Which is found to be at large three times or more.
      (2)   However, no animal shall be a DANGEROUS ANIMAL if injury or damage
is inflicted by that animal upon a person or another animal if such person or
other animal, at the time such injury or damage was sustained, was committing a
willful trespass upon premises occupied by the owner or keeper of the animal,
or was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the animal or was committing
or attempting to commit a crime. This definition excludes K-9 Corps dogs in use
by law enforcement agencies.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal that is a member of one of the following
species:
      (1)   Dog (Canis Familiaris);
      (2)   Cat (Felis Cattus or Felis Domesticus);
      (3)   Cattle (Bos Domesticus or Bos Taurus or Bos Indicus);
      (4)   Horse (Equus Caballus);
      (5)   Donkey (Equus Asinus);
      (6)   Sheep (Ovis Aries);
      (7)   Goat (Capra Hilrcus);
      (8)   Rabbit (Oryctolagus Cuniculus);
      (9)   Mouse (Mus Musculus);
      (10)   Rat (Rattus Rattus);
      (11)   Guinea Pig (Cavis Procellus);
      (12)   Hamster (Mesocriecetus Auratus);
      (13)   Gerbil (Gerbillus Gerbillius);
      (14)   Cow or Ox (Bovine); and
      (15)   Pigeon, homing or racing chicken, turkey, goose, duck.
   ESCAPE-PROOF ENCLOSURE. The owner’s home or an enclosure at least six feet
by 12 feet, constructed of ten-gauge commercial chain link steel wire at least
seven feet high above grade unless covered with a roof of similar wire, and two
feet of similar wire buried below grade unless there is a cement floor. (If the
dog escapes the enclosure, a five-sided enclosure on concrete will be
required.)
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal whose normal native habitat is not indigenous to
the continental United States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii, except fish, and
fur-bearing animals commercially bred for the furrier trade and birds protected
under federal laws and regulations.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. Any human or non-human warm blooded mammal that has been
bitten or in contact with any other animal known or reasonably suspected to
have been infected with rabies.
   FOWL. Any kind of wild or domestic bird, excluding homing or racing pigeons,
canaries, parrots or similar type of birds normally kept in cages.
   GUIDE DOGS. Dogs formally trained to assist disabled persons.
   HARBORING. The actions of any person that permit any animal habitually to
remain or lodge or to be fed within his or her home, store, enclosure, year or
place of business or any premises on which such person resides or controls. An
animal shall be presumed HARBORED if it is fed or sheltered for three
consecutive days or more.
   HUMANE OFFICER(S). Any person(s) and/or agency designated by the state, or
the Town, as a person(s) who is qualified to perform the duties required by the
law of the Town and state regarding animals.
   NOT-FOR-PROFIT. A business, association, or entity established or organized
as a “not-for-profit” corporation under state law or recognized as “not-for-
profit” by the Internal Revenue Service or the State Department of Revenue.
“For-profit” means all other types of businesses, associations or entities.
   OWNER. Any person age 18 years or older, partnership or corporation owning,
keeping or harboring one or more animals.
   PET. Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   PET SHOP. Any person, group of person, partnership or corporation, whether
operated separately or in connection with another business enterprise, engaged
in the humane care and possession for sale, display and sale of pets.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal or animals which:
      (1)   Interferes with passers-by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks other animals or persons;
      (3)   Is at large;
      (4)   Damages private or public property;
      (5)   Causes frequent or long continued loud noises or other sounds
common to its species which disturbs the comfort or repose of any person in the
immediate neighborhood;
      (6)   Causes foul or noxious odors which offend residents in the
neighborhood; and/or
      (7)   Is at large or on a public playground, swimming pool or school yard
unless the animal is authorized by school officials.
   RABIES VACCINATION. The injection by a licensed veterinarian of a dog or cat
or other animal with a rabies vaccine licensed by the U.S.D.A. State Board of
Health.
   RESTRAINT. The securing of an animal by leash or lead or confining it within
the real property limits of its owner or agent.
   STRAY. Any animal that is not within the real property limits of its owner
and is not under restraint or is unattended.
   VETERINARIAN. Any person licensed and accredited to practice veterinary
medicine in the state.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal not a domestic or exotic animal, with the exception
of small, non-poisonous aquatic or amphibious animals and small cage birds,
which are normally found in the wild state.
   ZOOLOGICAL PARK. Any facility, other than a pet shop or kennel, displaying
or exhibiting one or more species or non-domesticated animals operated by a
person, partnership, corporation or governmental agency that is established for
educational purposes and is properly zoned for such use and which possesses
valid licenses and permits as required under federal or state law.
(2005 Code, § 71.01) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 91.02 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of or perform any duty imposed by this chapter, or when there is
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building or upon any
premises any violation of the provisions of this chapter or state law, a health
officer, police officer or humane officer is authorized at all reasonable times
to inspect the same for compliance with the provisions of this chapter or any
state law; provided that:
      (1)   If the property is occupied, the officer shall first present proper
credentials to the occupant and request entry, explaining the reasons therefor;
and
      (2)   If the property is unoccupied, the officer shall make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other persons having control of the property and
request entry, explaining the reasons therefor.
   (B)   In the event the officer has reasonable cause to believe that the
keeping or maintaining of an animal(s) is so hazardous, unsafe, dangerous or
constitutes a public nuisance as to require immediate inspection to safeguard
the animal or the public health or safety, the officer shall first present
proper credentials and request entry, explaining the reasons therefor. If entry
is refused or cannot be obtained, the officer shall have recourse to secure
lawful entry and inspection of the property.
(2005 Code, § 71.29) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 91.03 BARKING DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation being the owner or
keeper of any dog and/or animals to permit such dog and/or animal to bark,
howl, whine or otherwise disturb or annoy any other resident of the said Town
for any single period of 15 minutes, nor for intermittent periods of shorter
duration than such shorter disturbances of the peace, shall occur more than
three times in any period of 24 hours.
(2005 Code, § 71.30) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
STANDARDS AND CONDITIONS
§ 91.15 GENERAL ANIMAL CARE REQUIREMENTS.
   Every owner and/or his or her agent within the Town shall see that each of
his or her animals:
   (A)   Is kept in a clean, sanitary and healthy manner and is not confined so
as to be forced to stand, sit or be in its own excrement;
   (B)   Has sufficient and wholesome food and water, which is proper and
nutritional for that species of animal;
   (C)   Has a proper and adequate structure provided that will protect that
animal from all elements of the weather and will allow that animal to stand,
sit and lie down without restriction, and is kept in a sanitary manner;
   (D)   If ill, diseased or injured, receives proper veterinary care as
necessary to promote the good health of the animal and prevent the transmittal
of a disease to other animals or human beings;
   (E)   Is not beaten, cruelly ill-treated, overloaded, overworked, tormented
or otherwise abused or neglected, nor shall any person cause, instigate or
permit any dogfight, cockfight, bullfight or other combat between animals or
between animals and humans;
   (F)   Is not physically altered in any manner by anyone other than a
veterinarian with the exception of tattooing for identification purposes and
grooming;
   (G)   Is not abandoned, neglected or tortured;
   (H)   Does not become a public nuisance;
   (I)   Does not become a dangerous animal;
   (J)   In the case of a dog or cat over the age of six months, is properly
vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian annually, or upon such
frequency as may be specified by Indiana Code, and such animals shall be
licensed as required by this chapter and state law;
   (K)   Is properly restrained; and
   (L)   In mating season, shall be kept in a secure enclosure in such a manner
that it cannot come into contact with another animal of the same species,
except for planned breeding.
(2005 Code, § 71.02) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 91.16 SALE OF ANIMALS AS NOVELTIES; USE AS PRIZES; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall display, sell offer for sale, barter or give away any
animal, reptile, fish or bird as a novelty or as an advertising device.
   (B)   No rabbit, chick, gosling, duckling, turkey or other fowl may be dyed
or otherwise colored artificially, nor may dyed or artificially colored
rabbits, chicks, goslings, ducklings, turkeys or other fowl be sold, offered
for sale, displayed, used as barter or given away.
   (C)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit the sale or display of
natural chicks, ducklings, goslings, turkeys or other domestic fowl in proper
brooder facilities by hatcheries or stores engaged in the business of selling
them to be raised for commercial purposes; nor shall this section prohibit a
pet shop holding a valid permit under this chapter, or a legitimate humane
society or animal shelter, from humanely caring for, adopting out or selling
animals as pets.
(2005 Code, § 71.03) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 91.17 MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENTS INVOLVING ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any person operating a motor vehicle who knowingly hits, runs over or
causes injury to an animal shall immediately notify the Police Department.
   (B)   Such notice shall include the motorist’s name, address, type of animal
hit and the location of the animal.
(2005 Code, § 71.04) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 91.18 ANIMALS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No animal shall be left in a motor vehicle when the conditions in that
vehicle would constitute a health hazard to that animal, or when the weather
would constitute a health hazard to such animal confined in said motor vehicle;
nor shall any person transport any animal in an unenclosed truck bed or open
portion of any vehicle unless the animal is enclosed in a cage which is
securely fastened to the vehicle.
(2005 Code, § 71.05) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 91.19 POISONING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit any known poisonous
substance in any of the street, alleys, parks, commons, yard or other places,
whether public or private, within the Town, so that the same shall be liable to
be consumed by any animal; provided that, it shall not be unlawful for a person
to expose on his or her own property common rat or mouse poison or insecticide,
unmixed or mixed only with vegetable substances, if used so as to restrict
access to the poison only to the targeted rodents or insects.
(2005 Code, § 71.06) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 91.20 TRAPPING ANIMALS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall trap for animals or fowl within the Town unless such trap(s)
are cage-type live trap(s) approved by a humane officer or the Town animal
control agency and issued for the control of nuisance animals. This prohibition
shall not apply to any trap specifically designed to kill rats, mice, gophers
or moles as long as the owner of the property is aware of where the trap(s) are
set.
(2005 Code, § 71.07) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 91.21 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS.
   No more than an aggregate of three dogs or cats over the age of six months
may be kept on any residential, commercial or other premises within the Town
unless the owner of the animals holds a valid pet shop/breeder permit,
whichever may be appropriate.
(2005 Code, § 71.08) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 91.22 ACREAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)    Any person desiring to keep any of the following named domestic
animals or fowl, except chickens, in the Town must have a minimum of five
contiguous acres of land in the Town, upon which the animals would be kept and
which acreage must be fenced to confine such animals:
         (a)    Cows, oxen, cattle, calves or other livestock;
         (b)   Donkeys, asses, burros, mules;
         (c)   Sheep;
         (d)   Goats;
         (e)   Roosters, geese, turkeys, ducks or other fowl, except racing or
homing pigeons;
         (f)   Bees; and
         (g)   Horses.
      (2)   The maximum number of such animals that may be maintained on such
property shall be determined in light of current animal husbandry and
veterinary standards.
   (B)   In no event shall the shelter and feeding station for any of the
animals or fowl designated in division (A) above be closer than 50 feet from
the adjoining property line, except for chickens for whom the shelter and
feeding station shall be no closer than ten feet from the adjoining property
line.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed or construed to prohibit the
keeping of bees in a hive, stand or box located or kept within a zoological
park, school or university building for the purpose of study or observation, as
long as the public safety is ensured.
   (D)   Any person desiring to raise rabbits or pets or racing or homing
pigeons within the Town must keep such animals and birds in safe and sanitary
conditions so that a public nuisance, as defined herein, is not created.
   (E)   The following provisions are for the keeping and raising of chickens.
      (1)   The term “chicken” does not include peacocks, turkeys, water fowl,
or any other animal contained within the definition of fowl.
      (2)   No roosters (male chickens) shall be kept.
      (3)   There shall be no more than four chickens on any parcel of land
less than one acre in size, and no more than 12 chickens on any parcel of land
regardless of the size of the parcel. Additionally, no chickens shall be
allowed unless all surrounding neighbors and lot owners (as hereinafter
defined) agree in writing to the presence of the chickens. SURROUNDING
NEIGHBORS include any parcel of real estate immediately adjacent to the parcel
where the chickens will be housed, or any parcel immediately and directly
across a road or other manner of public conveyance from the parcel where the
chickens will be housed.
      (4)   Chickens must be completely and securely enclosed and under the
control of the owner and on the owner’s property at all times.
      (5)   A CHICKEN COOP, an enclosed structure for harboring chickens that
provides shelter from the elements, shall be provided. The chicken coop must
provide adequate sun, shade and ventilation, and must be impermeable to
rodents, wild birds, predators (including cats and dogs), and the like. Only
one such structure shall be permitted on any parcel of land.
      (6)   The chicken coop, chicken pens, and surrounding areas shall be kept
clean, dry, odor free, and in a neat and sanitary condition at all times.
      (7)   Chickens and chicken coops shall be confined to the rear yard of
the property.
      (8)   All feed for chickens shall be stored in containers so as to
protect against intrusion by rodents and vermin.
      (9)   Any chickens kept in accordance with the provisions of this code
shall be for noncommercial, personal use only. Eggs and chicken manure shall
not be sold. There shall be no butchering of chickens on the premises.
(2005 Code, § 71.09) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992; Ord. 2021-7, passed 1-
24-2022)
§ 91.23 PROHIBITION OF SWINE.
   No person may keep within the Town, as presently or hereinafter established,
any swine or pig pens, or hog sties, which are hereby declared to be a nuisance
in the Town.
(2005 Code, § 71.09) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 91.24 ANIMAL WASTE, DEAD ANIMAL REMOVALS.
   (A)   Any owner or his or her agent taking the owner’s dog(s) or cat(s)
outside of the owner’s real property limits must immediately remove any
excrement deposited by the animal(s) on any such public or private property,
except in the case of a guide dog for a blind person or service dog for deaf or
physically disabled person.
   (B)   The owner of any dead animal shall remove and properly dispose of the
animal within 24 hours after its death. The real property owner is responsible
for removal of any strange animal carcass on such real property.
(2005 Code, § 71.10) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 91.25 ANIMAL BITES AND REPORTS.
   (A)   If any person is a victim of an animal bite, he or she shall
immediately notify the County Health Department and/or Town Police Department
of the incident, and provide a description of the animal and the
identification, if possible, of the owner. When an animal is determined to have
bitten a person, the animal shall be confined in quarantine for a period of not
less than 14 days.
   (B)   If the owner of an animal which has bitten a person has proof of
current rabies inoculations, the animal may be left in the charge of the owner,
under quarantine, unless, in the judgment of the humane officer, and based upon
considerations of public safety, the humane officer determines if it should be
removed to an animal shelter or veterinary hospital for the period of
observation.
   (C)   In addition to any other legal obligations prescribed by law, the
owner shall be liable for all costs incurred in the quarantine of the animal.
   (D)   If the ownership of the biting animal cannot be determined, or if the
owner does not furnish proof of current rabies inoculation, the animal shall be
impounded under the authority of the Town animal control agency and confined in
the animal control facility for the period of observation of not less than 14
days.
   (E)   Humane officers shall be empowered to enter onto private property for
the purpose of impounding animal(s) which are known to have bitten a person and
shall obtain legal process to do so if necessary.
   (F)   Unless otherwise provided, the Town and any of its agents shall comply
with the standards set forth in I.C. 15-2.1-6-1 through 15-2.1-6-13, entitled
“Rabies”.
(2005 Code, § 71.11) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 91.26 VACCINATION OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   No animal owner or his or her agent shall keep or harbor a dog or cat
over the age of six months unless it has been vaccinated annually by a licensed
veterinarian with anti-rabies vaccine.
   (B)   Proof of vaccination shall be maintained by the owner for display if
requested by the Town or its agents.
(2005 Code, § 71.12) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 91.27 INTERFERENCE WITH HUMANE OFFICER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter to interfere with or impede a humane
officer or officers in the performance of their duties set forth in this
chapter.
(2005 Code, § 71.13) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 91.28 ADOPTED ANIMALS; SPAYING AND NEUTERING.
   Any dog or cat adopted from a local humane society or animal care facility
must be spayed or neutered by a licensed veterinarian within 30 days of
adoption if the dog or cat is over six months of age. If the dog or cat is less
than six months of age upon adoption, it shall be spayed or neutered by a
licensed veterinarian upon reaching the age of six months. An exception is made
only if a licensed veterinarian certifies that said animal is physically unable
to undergo such an operation within the time limitations. The individual
adopting the dog or cat must sign a written agreement with the adopting
facility guaranteeing that such animal shall be neutered or spayed within the
time limitations specified in this section.
(2005 Code, § 71.14) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 91.29 “SEEING EYE” AND “HEARING” DOGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, operating or maintaining any
public place of business or conveyance into which the general public is invited
for any business purpose to debar or exclude therefrom any dog which has been
trained to assist the blind, the hearing impaired or physically disabled.
However, the dog must be in the company of the disabled person whom it was
trained to assist.
(2005 Code, § 71.15) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 91.30 CONFINEMENT BY OTHER THAN TOWN OFFICIALS; NOTICE REQUIRED.
   No person shall, without the knowledge or consent of the owner, hold or
retain possession of any animal of which he or she is not the owner for more
than 24 hours without first reporting the possession of the animal to a humane
officer, an animal control agency, or its designee, giving his or her name and
address, a description of the animal, a true and complete statement of the
circumstance under which he or she took possession of the animal and the
precise location where said animal is confined.
(2005 Code, § 71.16) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 91.31 BREAKING INTO ANIMAL SHELTER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break into any animal shelter wherein
animals are impounded by the Town or in any way remove or assist in the removal
of any animal from the described property without lawful permission.
(2005 Code, § 71.17) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 91.32 DANGEROUS OR POISONOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or possess within the Town any
poisonous animal, reptile, amphibian, fish or insect, any dangerous animal, or
any animal that poses a threat to public health and safety, and the same may be
impounded by the animal control agency and disposed of in the best interest of
the animal, and to protect the safety of the public and humane officers.
(2005 Code, § 71.18) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 91.33 IMPOUNDING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All animals found to be at large, stray or being a public nuisance may
be taken by the police or humane officer and impounded.
   (B)   If any dangerous, ferocious or vicious animal is found at large and
cannot be safely taken up and impounded, the animal may be tranquilized, slain
or humanely euthanized to prevent undue suffering, by a police officer or his
or her designee or a humane officer.
   (C)   The Town animal control agency shall have authority to take whatever
action is reasonably necessary, including humane euthanization, to deal with a
sick or injured animal, for the welfare of the animal and for the safety of
humane officers and the public.
(2005 Code, § 71.19) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
PERMITS, REGISTRATIONS AND FEES
§ 91.45 CONTROLLED ANIMAL PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess within the Town any
controlled animal or controlled animals as defined herein unless the owner of
said animal or animals possesses proper state and/or federal permits as
required for said animal or animals.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess within the Town any
protected or endangered species as may be listed or published from time to time
by any department or agency of the federal or state government, unless the
owner of said animal possesses proper state and/or federal permits.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess within the Town any
wild animal indigenous to the state unless said owner possesses proper state
and/or federal permits and a valid Town controlled animal permit.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess within the Town any
non-domestic animal unless said owner possesses proper state and/or federal
permits as required by law for said animal.
   (E)   This section shall not be deemed to prevent the importation,
possession, purchase or sale of any species by any institute of higher
learning, zoological park or persons holding valid state or federal permits.
(2005 Code, § 71.21) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 91.46 PET SHOP/BREEDER PERMIT.
   No person, partnership or corporation shall operate a pet shop or operate as
a breeder with less than five acres, as defined herein, in the Town, without
first obtaining from the applicable county and state agencies a pet shop/
breeder permit and pay the necessary fees.
(2005 Code, § 71.22) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 91.47 DANGEROUS ANIMAL/ATTACK DOG PERMITS.
   No person shall harbor, hold for sale, sell, keep or maintain in the Town
any dangerous animal or attack dog, unless:
   (A)   Such person or entity shall first submit a written application for and
obtain from the Town animal control agency a dangerous animal/attack dog
permit, which application shall be accompanied by a current photograph of the
animal being registered and written proof of liability insurance in the minimum
sum of $500,000;
   (B)   The dangerous animal/attack dog owner at all times maintains liability
insurance covering possible injury or damages caused by said dog in a minimum
amount of $500,000 coverage, and written agreement that the Town Code
Enforcement and Police Departments will be notified within 24 hours, excluding
Sundays and holidays, in the event that said insurance coverage is canceled or
discontinued;
   (C)   The dangerous animal/attack dog is at all times confined in an escape-
proof enclosure which protects the public from coming into direct contact with
the dangerous animal/attack dog;
   (D)   The dangerous animal/attack dog, when not confined, is muzzled and
reined or tethered to its master, owner or keeper, who must be over the age of
18 years and who, at all times, must maintain control over the animal to
prevent injury to any person or animal;
   (E)   The dangerous animal/attack dog, at all times, wears the registration
tag issued by the Town designating said animal as a registered dangerous
animal/attack dog;
   (F)   If, in the event that the animal is lost or escapes, the same will be
reported immediately to the Town and to the Town’s designated animal control
agency; and
   (G)   The property on which the dangerous animal/attack dog is kept is
posted with signs clearly visible from the closest street advising the general
public that a dangerous animal/attack dog is on the premises.
(2005 Code, § 71.23) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 91.48 ANIMAL PERFORMANCE/EXHIBITION PERMIT.
   (A)   Any entity wanting to do an animal performance or exhibition must
contact the Town Clerk- Treasurer and seek approval from the Town Council
before the scheduled event may take place.
   (B)   The applicant shall provide proof of insurance executed by a company
legally authorized to do business in the state in limits of liability not less
than the amounts set forth in state law.
   (C)   Any permit issued under the provisions of this section may be revoked
by the Town Council or its agent for violation of any local, county or state
law regulating such performance or exhibition.
(2005 Code, § 71.24) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any animal being possessed in violation of §
91.45 of this chapter may be seized by a humane officer and impounded. Any
person violating any of the provisions of §
91.45 of this chapter shall be fined pursuant to the Appendix: Fines and
Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 71.21) (Ord. 1992-04, passed 10-19-1992)
CHAPTER 92: JUNK AND ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
Junk Cars
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Prohibition
   
92.03   Removal
Abandoned Vehicles
   
92.20   Nuisance declared; public agency designated; revolving fund
   
92.21   Definitions
   
92.22   Procedure for notice, removal and disposal; fees
   
92.23   Exceptions
 
   
92.99   Penalty
JUNK CARS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. When used in conjunction with the term “vehicle”, means:
      (1)   Any vehicle located on public premises which does not have lawfully
affixed thereto or displayed thereon a valid unexpired license plate permitting
its operation upon the highways of the state;
      (2)   Any vehicle which is parked or located on public premises
continuously without being moved for a period of seven days, except before the
legal or temporary residence of the owner;
      (3)   Any vehicle parked or located on public premises illegally or in
such a manner as to constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of
pedestrian or other vehicle traffic on a public right-of-way, street or
highway;
      (4)   Any vehicle that is over five years old and mechanically
inoperable, and is left unattended on private premises in a location which is
visible from public premises for more than 30 days;
      (5)   Any vehicle that has remained on private premises without the
consent of the owner or person in control of such premises for more than 48
hours; and
      (6)   Any vehicle from which there has been removed the engine or
transmission or differential or which is otherwise partially-dismantled or
inoperable and left unattended on private premises in a location visible from
public premises or left unattended on public premises.
   BUREAU. The Bureau of Motor Vehicles of the state.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Bureau.
   DISPOSAL AGENT. Any firm or individual engaged in the business of converting
vehicles and parts of vehicles into processed scrap or scrap metal.
   OFFICER. Any Walkerton police officer or Code Enforcement Official.
   OWNER. The last known record title holder to a vehicle according to the
records of the Bureau under the provisions of I.C. I.C. 9-14-1 et seq.
   PARTS. All component parts of a vehicle which are in a state of disassembly
or are assembled with other vehicle component parts, but which, in their state
of assembly, do not constitute a complete vehicle.
   PERSON. All natural persons, firms, partnerships and corporations excluding
officer, as defined in §
92.02 of this chapter.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. All privately owned property which is not classified
within the definition of “public premises”.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The department of local government which has the authority to
authorize an agency for the local removal, storage and disposal of abandoned
vehicles.
   PUBLIC PREMISES. Any public right-of-way, street highway, alley, park or
other state, county or municipally owned property.
   VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, automobile, motorcycle, truck, trailer, semi-
trailer, truck tractor, bus, school bus, house car or motor bicycle or any
portion thereof.
(2005 Code, § 72.01)
§ 92.02 PROHIBITION.
   No person shall abandon his or her vehicle on any public premises or private
premises in a location which is visible from public premises.
(2005 Code, § 72.02)
§ 92.03 REMOVAL.
   (A)   The Police Department of the Town is the authorized agency assigned
the responsibility for removing vehicles defined as abandoned under the
provisions of this subchapter and of the Pub. Law No. 86 of 1972.
   (B)   Any vehicle which under the standards established by Pub. Law No. 86
of 1972 has an appraised value of less than $200 shall be subject to removal,
impoundment and sale by the public agency. After making a reasonable effort to
ascertain the owner or persons who may be in control of the abandoned vehicle
by inquiring of other persons in the neighborhood where the abandoned vehicle
is located, such vehicles shall be tagged by a police officer with a notice tag
affixed in a prominent place on such vehicle and said tag which shall be
prepared by the Police Department shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (2)   The vehicle or parts will be removed seven days thereafter,
impounded and subsequently disposed of;
      (3)   The owner will be held responsible for all costs incidental to the
removal, storage and disposal and, if not paid, the owner’s registration
privileges may be suspended;
      (4)   The owner may avoid costs or suspension of registration privileges
by removal of the vehicle or parts within seven days; and
      (5)   The date, officer’s name and the address and telephone number of
the public agency to contact for information.
   (C)   No impounded vehicle shall be sold by the public agency prior to the
expiration of 15 days from the date the public agency mails a written notice to
the owner advising him or her that his or her vehicle has been impounded and
must be removed from the impounding facility by the owner within 15 days of the
date of mailing the notice or the public agency will proceed to dispose of the
vehicle by sale to a disposal agent.
(2005 Code, § 72.03)
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 92.20 NUISANCE DECLARED; PUBLIC AGENCY DESIGNATED; REVOLVING FUND.
   (A)   Abandoned vehicles are detrimental to the health and safety of the
general public and are declared to be a public nuisance and a health and safety
hazard.
   (B)   The Town Council shall be the public agency responsible for the
removal, storage and disposal of abandoned vehicles. The Town Council shall act
through the Code Enforcement Office and may employ personnel and acquire
equipment, property and facilities and enter into contracts as necessary for
the purpose of removal, storage and disposition of abandoned vehicles.
   (C)   I.C. 9-22-1-1 et seq., the “Abandoned, Salvaged and Scrap Vehicles
Chapter”, as promulgated by the state legislature, is made a part of this
subchapter and shall govern all areas not specifically addressed herein.
(2005 Code, § 58.01) (Ord. 2001-09, passed 7-16-2001)
§ 92.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLES. Any of the following:
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (3)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property, for more than 24 hours;
      (4)   A vehicle from which there has been removed the engine,
transmission or differential, or that is otherwise partially dismantled or
inoperable and left on public property;
      (5)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or a public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance other than
this subchapter, if the vehicle once impounded is not claimed or redeemed by
the owner or his or her agent within 15 days of its removal; or
      (6)   A vehicle which is six or more model years old and mechanically
inoperable and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 21 days.
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAPYARD. A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, automobile wrecking or operating a junkyard.
   BUREAU. The Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   FISCAL BODY. The Town Council of the Town.
   OFFICER. A regular member of the Town Police Department and the Code
Enforcement Officer.
   OWNER. The last known record title holder of a vehicle, according to the
records of the Bureau.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, corporation, association, fiduciary or
government entity.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The Walkerton Town Council.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. A public right-of-way, highway, alley, sidewalk, park or
other municipal property.
   TOWING SERVICE. A business that engages in moving, removing, storing and
impounding disable vehicles.
   VEHICLES. An automobile, motorcycle, trailer, semi-trailer, tractor, bus,
school bus, recreational vehicle or motorized bicycle.
   VISIBLE FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY. A vehicle can be seen from public property and
includes vehicles which have been covered by a temporary covering that allows
the form and outline of the vehicle to remain visible from public property.
(2005 Code, § 58.01) (Ord. 2001-09, passed 7-16-2001)
§ 92.22 PROCEDURE FOR NOTICE, REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL; FEES.
   (A)   No person shall abandon a vehicle on any public or private property
without the permission of the person having the right to possession or control
of the property upon which the vehicle is left.
   (B)   The owner of the abandoned vehicle is responsible for the abandonment
and is liable, to the extent of the market value of the vehicle, for all of the
costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of same.
   (C)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of an abandoned
vehicle is $500 or less, the officer shall attach thereto in a prominent place
a notice tag containing the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer’s name, public agency and address and
telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   The vehicle is considered abandoned;
      (3)   The vehicle will be removed after 24 hours;
      (4)   The owner will be held responsible for all costs incidental to the
removal, storage and disposal; and
      (5)   The owner may avoid costs by removal of the vehicle within 24
hours.
   (D)   If the tagged vehicle which, in the opinion of the officer, has a
market value of less than $500, is not removed within 24 hours the officer
shall:
      (1)   Prepare a written abandoned vehicle report of the vehicle including
information on the condition, missing parts and other facts that substantiate
that the market value is less than $500;
      (2)   Take photographs to illustrate the condition of the vehicle;
      (3)   Immediately remove the vehicle to an automobile storage area or
scrapyard; and
      (4)   Within 24 hours after removal or disposal of the vehicle, the
Department of Code Enforcement shall forward a copy of the abandoned vehicle
report and photograph relating to same to the Bureau and shall retain the
original records and photographs for at least two years.
   (E)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of an abandoned
vehicle is $500 or more, the officer shall make reasonable effort to ascertain
the owner or person who may be in control of the vehicle by inquiry of other
persons in the neighborhood. Thereafter, the officer shall attach to the
vehicle in a prominent place a notice tag containing the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer’s name, public agency and address and
telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   The vehicle is considered abandoned;
      (3)   The vehicle will be removed after 24 hours;
      (4)   The owner will be held responsible for all costs incidental to the
removal, storage and disposal; and
      (5)   The owner may avoid costs by removal of the vehicle within 72
hours.
   (F)   (1)   If the tagged vehicle which, in the opinion of the officer, has
a market value of $500 or more is not removed within the 72-hour period, the
officer shall take photographs to illustrate the condition of the vehicle and
shall require the vehicle to be towed to a storage area.
      (2)   Within 72 hours after the removal of an abandoned vehicle to a
storage area, the Department of Code Enforcement shall prepare and forward to
the Bureau an abandoned vehicle report, including the make, model, engine
number if any, identification number and number of the license plate, and
request that the Bureau advise the Department of Code Enforcement of the name
and most recent mailing address of the owner and of any lienholder.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the requested information from the Bureau, the
Department of Code Enforcement shall advise the owner or any lienholder that
the vehicle has been impounded at a certain location and must be removed within
15 days of the date of the mailing the notice, and advising that the vehicle
will be disposed of after that time. The notice should also advise that all
costs incurred in removing and storing the vehicle are the owner’s legal
responsibility, and a detailed list of costs incurred to date and anticipated
costs shall be included.
      (4)   If the owner or lienholder appears prior to the disposal of the
vehicle and pays all costs incurred, he or she shall then be entitled to the
return of the vehicle. If the owner or lienholder does not appear in 15 days
after the mailing of notice, the Town Council shall sell the vehicle to the
highest bidder at a public sale conducted after notice under I.C. 5-3-1, except
only one newspaper insertion one week before the public sale is required.
      (5)   If the vehicle is in such condition that the vehicle identification
numbers or other means of identification are not available to determine the
owner of record with the Bureau, the vehicle may be disposed of without notice.
      (6)   The purchaser shall be furnished a bill of sale for each abandoned
vehicle sold by the Town.
   (G)   In accordance with this subchapter, the owner shall be charged a fee
for the towing and storage of his or her vehicle.
   (H)   Upon complaint of a private property owner or person in control of the
property upon which vehicle has been left for more than 24 hours without the
consent of the owner or person in control, an officer shall follow the
procedure set forth in this subchapter for removal of said vehicle.
   (I)   Neither the owner, lessee or occupant of the property from which an
abandoned vehicle is removed, or any public agency, towing sendee or automobile
scrapyard, is liable for any damage to the vehicle occurring during its
removal, storage or disposition.
(2005 Code, § 58.01) (Ord. 2001-09, passed 7-16-2001)
§ 92.23 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter does not apply to the following vehicles:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adopted or constructed
for operations on privately owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a members of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sales lot or at a commercial vehicle
servicing facility;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard; or
   (E)   A vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12 as an antique
motor vehicle.
(2005 Code, § 58.01) (Ord. 2001-09, passed 7-16-2001)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.03 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a Class C infraction and, upon
conviction thereunder, shall be fined pursuant to the Appendix: Fines and
Penalties in Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances. Each day violation is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such hereunder.
(2005 Code, § 72.06)
CHAPTER 93: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
False Alarms
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Fees; who assessed
   
93.03   Response to alarm
   
93.04   Appeal of imposition of fees
FALSE ALARMS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any mechanism, equipment or device which is designed or used
for the detection of an unauthorized entry into a building, structure, facility
or enclosed area or a device utilized to alert others of the commission of an
unlawful act, or a fire within a building, structure, facility or enclosed
area, said device emitting a sound or transmitting a signal message when
activated; provided, however, that, this definition does not include “local
alarm system”.
   FALSE ALARM.
      (1)   The activation of an alarm where the causal factor lacks validity
in its notification of the appropriate department.
      (2)   A non-exclusive listing of examples of factors lacking validity
shall include intentional, knowing, reckless or negligent activity on the part
of the user or person on the property; improper installation; equipment misuse,
malfunction or failure and the performance of alarm system maintenance work
without having first notified the Fire Department or Police Department of the
Town. A non- exclusive listing of alarms lacking validity, but which are
exempted from the preceding definition, shall be: telephone line interruptions
occurring outside of the premises where the alarm is located; alarms triggered
by severe weather conditions or any other act of God; alarm trouble
indications; and prearranged alarm system tests.
   LOCAL ALARM SYSTEM. A device alerting only individuals located upon the
premises which is subject to the commission of an unlawful act or fire, or the
threat of an unlawful act or fire. An example of a LOCAL ALARM SYSTEM includes,
but is not limited to, a home smoke detector or a home burglar alarm that does
not directly alert the Town Police Department or Town Fire Department by direct
telephonic or other means.
   SECOND-PARTY ALARM MONITORING AGENCY. Any private business, providing an
alarm monitoring service to another person or entity, which, in the event of an
activated alarm would telephone or otherwise notify the appropriate department
to report said alarm. Such a SECOND-PARTY ALARM MONITORING AGENCY is not
considered a “local alarm system”.
(2005 Code, § 50.01) (Ord. 1998-9, passed 9-8-1998)
§ 93.02 FEES; WHO ASSESSED.
   The owner of the property upon which an alarm system has been installed
shall be the party against whom fees shall be imposed under this subchapter.
There shall be no fees imposed for three false alarms in any calendar year.
However, upon the fourth false alarm in any calendar year, a fee as listed in
the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code or ordinances shall be imposed against the owner of the
real property upon which the alarm system has been installed. Upon the fifth
false alarm in any calendar year, a fee of $as listed in the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 shall be imposed. Upon the sixth and every subsequent false alarm in any
calendar year, the fee shall be as listed in the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35.
(2005 Code, § 50.02) (Ord. 1998-9, passed 9-8-1998)
§ 93.03 RESPONSE TO ALARM.
   (A)   Whenever an alarm system is activated in the Town, thereby requiring
an emergency response on the premises by the Police or Fire Department and to
which the Police or Fire Department responds, the senior officer on the
premises of the activated alarm system determines the alarm to be false, the
officer shall make a report of the false alarm and shall submit the same to the
Chief of the Department. If the Chief concurs that the alarm was false, then
notice of a false alarm shall be sent to the owner of the real property upon
which the alarm system has been installed. The Chief shall keep a record of the
number of false alarms for any particular property owner for each calendar
year.
   (B)   Upon the occurrence of the fourth false alarm in any calendar year,
the notice shall reflect the imposition of fees equal to those referred to
above.
(2005 Code, § 50.03) (Ord. 1998-9, passed 9-8-1998)
§ 93.04 APPEAL OF IMPOSITION OF FEES.
   The owner of property in which an alarm system has been installed may object
to the imposition of fees based upon this subchapter, and/or the determination
that false alarms have occurred on the premises. The owner may appeal the
decision to impose fees by filing a written objection with the Chief of the
Department within 30 days of the date of the notice. The decision of the Chief
of the Department shall be final for purposes of imposition of the fees
provided for herein.
(2005 Code, § 50.04) (Ord. 1998-9, passed 9-8-1998)
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION; FIREWORKS
Section
Smoke Detectors
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Smoke detectors required
   
94.03   Location
   
94.04   Sprinkler systems
   
94.05   Maintenance
   
94.06   Enforcement
Fireworks
   
94.20   Use, discharge or ignition prohibited
   
94.21   Definition
   
94.22   Permits required
   
94.23   Enforcement
Fire Control
   
94.35   Definitions
   
94.36   Open burning prohibited
   
94.37   Fires permitted
   
94.38   Variances
   
94.39   Accumulation and the like
   
94.40   Restriction for control of all fires
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Alarm Systems, see
Ch. 93
   Building Code, see §§
151.01 through
151.18
   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances, see
Ch. 90
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Ch. 153
SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME RENTAL. Any mobile home or trailer occupied by or offered for
occupancy to an individual or individuals as a residence on a rental basis.
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING UNIT. Any building that contains living quarters for
two or more occupancies, and shall include hotels, motels, boarding houses,
sleeping rooms, buildings of mixed occupancy, having any residential unit,
nursing homes, convalescent homes, licenses halfway houses or lodging houses.
   SLEEPING AREA. The area of a unit in which bedrooms or sleeping rooms are
located. Bedrooms or sleeping rooms separated by another use area such as a
kitchen or living room are separate SLEEPING AREAS, but bedrooms or sleeping
rooms separated by a bathroom are not separate SLEEPING AREAS.
   SMOKE DETECTOR. A device which detects particles or products of combustion
other than heat, approved by Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., or Factory
Mutual, equipped with a test button and may be either battery powered, minimum
nine-volt or 120 volt A.C.
(2005 Code, § 47.01)
§ 94.02 SMOKE DETECTORS REQUIRED.
   All multi-family dwelling units, motels, hotels, boarding houses, sleeping
room houses, mobile home rentals, and buildings of mixed occupancy having any
residential units located in the Town shall be equipped with approved smoke
detectors.
(2005 Code, § 47.02)
§ 94.03 LOCATION.
   Every owner, manager or agent of any multiple dwelling shall install in
every dwelling unit, not less than one approved smoke detector on the ceiling,
not less than eight inches from the ceiling and within 15 feet of all rooms
used for sleeping purposes. Smoke detectors shall be mounted on the ceiling or
wall at a point centrally located in the corridor or area giving access to the
rooms used for sleeping purposes. Where a common hallway is used, smoke
detectors shall be spaced not more than 30 feet apart in such hallway, and no
closer than 15 feet from cooking appliances.
(2005 Code, § 47.03)
§ 94.04 SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be required in buildings which
contain an approved automatic sprinkler system throughout.
(2005 Code, § 47.04)
§ 94.05 MAINTENANCE.
   At every change of tenant in every multi-dwelling, it shall be the
responsibility of the owner, manager or agent to test and ascertain that the
approved smoke detectors are in operable condition. It shall be unlawful for
any person to tamper or remove any smoke detector, except when it is necessary
for maintenance or inspection purposes. Any smoke detector removed for repair
or replacement must be reinstalled or replaced so that it is in place during
normal sleeping hours.
(2005 Code, § 47.05)
§ 94.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Department of the Town shall be
charged with the duty of enforcing the terms of this subchapter.
(2005 Code, § 47.08)
FIREWORKS
§ 94.20 USE, DISCHARGE AND IGNITION PROHIBITED.
   The use, discharge or ignition of consumer fireworks by any person or other
entity is prohibited in the corporate limits of the Town, except during the
following periods:
   (A)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. on July 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7
and 8;
   (B)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4; and
   (C)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
(Ord. 2007-9, passed 10-15-2007)
§ 94.21 DEFINITION.
   (A)   CONSUMER FIREWORK means a small firework that is designed primarily to
produce visible effects by combustion, and that is required to comply with the
construction, chemical composition and labeling regulations promulgated by the
United States Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 C.F.R. part 1507. The
term also includes some small devices designed to produce an audible effect,
such as whistling devices, ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of
explosive composition and aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of
explosive composition. Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a mixture
of charcoal, sulfur and potassium nitrate are not considered as designed to
produce an audible effect.
   (B)   CONSUMER FIREWORKS include:
      (1)   Aerial devices, which include sky rockets, missile type rockets,
helicopter or aerial spinners, Roman candles, mines and shells;
      (2)   Ground audible devices, which include firecrackers, salutes and
chasers; and
      (3)   Firework devices containing combinations of the effects described
in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above.
   (C)   CONSUMER FIREWORKS do not include:
      (1)   Dipped sticks or wire sparklers. However, total pyrotechnic
composition may not exceed 100 grams per item. Devices containing chlorate or
perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams in total composition per item;
      (2)   Cylindrical fountains;
      (3)   Cone fountains;
      (4)   Illuminating torches;
      (5)   Wheels;
      (6)   Ground spinner;
      (7)   Flitter sparklers;
      (8)   Snakes or glow worms;
      (9)   Smoke devices; and
      (10)   Trick noisemakers, which include party poppers, booby traps,
snappers, trick matches, cigarette loads and auto burglar alarms.
   (D)   The use, discharge or ignition of all other fireworks are governed by
state statutes.
(Ord. 2007-9, passed 10-15-2007)
§ 94.22 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Notwithstanding §
94.20 of this chapter, the use discharge or ignition of consumer fireworks may
be permitted with the approval of the Town Council on real estate owned by a
government entity. The approval shall specify the real estate upon which the
use, discharge or ignition will be permitted and the date(s) on which the use,
discharge or ignition will be permitted which may not exceed 72 hours.
(Ord. 2007-9, passed 10-15-2007)
§ 94.23 ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter shall be enforced in accordance with the applicable
provisions of the Town code as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2007-9, passed 10-15-2007)
FIRE CONTROL
§ 94.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF THE BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION. The Fire Chief of the Town Fire
Department or his or her designated representative.
   CORPORATE COUNSEL. The Town Attorney.
   INCINERATOR. Any engineered apparatus that burns waste substances with
controls on combustion factors including, but not limited to, temperature,
retention time and air.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Walkerton, St. Joseph County, Indiana.
   OPEN BURNING. The combustion of any matter in the open or in an open dump,
and the products of combustion are emitted directly into open air without
passing through a stack or chimney or combustion occurs in a devise other than
an approved incinerator or boiler.
   WOOD PRODUCTS. Materials derived from or consisting of wood or vegetation
including, but not limited to, paper, cardboard, rags, boards, branches, brush,
grass and leaves.
(2005 Code, § 70.81)
§ 94.36 OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED.
   No outdoor or open burning shall be conducted or permitted unless it fits
within an exemption under this statute or the party conducting said burning
obtains a permit from the Fire Chief.
(2005 Code, § 70.82)
§ 94.37 FIRES PERMITTED.
   (A)   The following types of fires are permitted:
      (1)   Fires celebrating school pep rallies;
      (2)   Fires celebrating scouting activities;
      (3)   Camp fires or fires for food preparation in adequate containers or
in safe areas;
      (4)   Residential burning of leaves during designated periods. Burning of
leaves shall be permitted from 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. at the following times
during the year, October 15 to November 15 and April 15 to May 15 of each year.
Only leaves may be burned. Open burning of other materials is prohibited.
Burning is prohibited in apartment complexes and mobile home parks; and
      (5)   Farm burning wood products derived from farming operations.
   (B)   All exemptions shall be subject to the following:
      (1)   Only wood products shall be burned unless otherwise stated above;
      (2)   If fires create an air pollution problem or a nuisance, they shall
be extinguished;
      (3)   All residential leaf and farm operations shall occur during
daylight hours during which the fires may be replenished, but only in such
manner that nearly all the burning material is consumed by 8:00 p.m.;
      (4)   No burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorology
conditions such as temperature inversions, high winds, air stagnation and the
like; and
      (5)   No burning shall be permitted when such burning is prohibited by
other valid ordinances of the Town.
(2005 Code, § 70.83)
§ 94.38 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Burning not exempted by the previous subsection may be permitted with
prior written approval of the Chief of the Fire Department furnishing fire
protection in the locale of such fire or his or her duly authorized
representative.
   (B)   Provided, however, that, the following types of burning may also
require approval of the County Health Officer or his or her designated agent:
      (1)   Emergency burning of petroleum products;
      (2)   Burning of refuse consisting of material resulting from a natural
disaster;
      (3)   Burning of highly explosive or other dangerous materials; and
      (4)   Any other burning which the Health Officer, or the designated agent
may from time to time so indicate.
(2005 Code, § 70.84)
§ 94.39 ACCUMULATION AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Any person who allows the accumulation or existence of combustible
material which constitutes or contributes to a fire causing air pollution shall
not be excused from responsibility therefor on the basis that said fire was
accidental or an act of God.
   (B)   The Fire Chief or his or her designated agent may impose any
reasonable restrictions on open burning which are reasonably required to
prevent the creation of a nuisance or hazard to the public health.
   (C)   No person shall conduct or allow to be conducted a salvage operation
involving open burning, or allow his or her property to be used for such open
burning.
(2005 Code, § 70.85)
§ 94.40 RESTRICTION FOR CONTROL OF ALL FIRES.
   (A)   No person shall set, start or attempt to set or start, a fire or
conflagration of any kind during any period of time within which the Town
Council have determined and made a general notification of such determination,
that the Town Council deem it necessary for the public safety and welfare to
prohibit all fires within the Town or other areas defined by said Town Council
during such period of time stated or until further notice from the Town
Council.
   (B)   No person shall cause or permit any fire to burn upon any public
street, alley, roadway or thoroughfare within the Town.
   (C)   No person shall set or start, or attempt to set or start, any fire in
violation of this subchapter, or without fully complying with the provisions of
this subchapter.
(2005 Code, § 70.86)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Failure to comply with the terms of §§
94.01 through
94.06 of this chapter shall result in charges being brought against the person
obligated herein to maintain the equipment as provided in §§
94.01 through
94.06 of this chapter and, upon conviction or violation of §§
94.01 through
94.06 of this chapter, such offending party shall be fined pursuant to the
Appendix: Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 47.07)
   (C)   Any person violating §§
94.20 through
94.23 of this chapter shall be subject to penalties pursuant to the Appendix:
Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   (1)   The Town Police Department shall enforce the provisions of §§
94.35 through
94.40 of this chapter with the assistance of the local Fire Department
authorities:
         (a)   Whenever a member of the Town Police Department or other person
charged with the enforcement of §§
94.35 through
94.40 of this chapter finds that any section or sections are being violated by
any person, he or she shall notify such person, in writing on a citation form
to be provided by the Town, of such violation. Such citation shall be issued
through the Police Department’s e-ticket software.
         (b)   One copy of such citation shall be presented to the violator. In
case such violator is not present, such citation may be left, in the case of
individuals, at the violator’s dwelling house or usual place of abode, or, in
the case of other persons, at the office or place of business of such other
persons or, in the case of all persons, in a manner reasonably calculated to
inform such person that he or she is in violation of §§
94.35 through
94.40 of this chapter.
         (c)   The citation shall require the notified person to appear within
seven days at the Town Court. The officer or person serving such citation shall
file the duplicate copy in the office of the Police Department. The person
notified of a violation of the regulations as provided in §§
94.35 through
94.40 of this chapter shall, within said time, answer the charges of the
violation or pay the prescribed fee. The amount of the fee shall be those set
forth in division (D)(1)(b) above.
      (2)   Any person found in violation of §§
94.35 through
94.40 of this chapter shall be fined pursuant to the Appendix: Fines and
Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 70.87)
(Ord. 2007-9, passed 10-15-2007)
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING; EQUAL OPPORTUNITY HOUSING
Section
Fair Housing
   
95.01   Policy statement
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Unlawful practice
   
95.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
95.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
95.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
95.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
95.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
95.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
95.10   Exemptions
   
95.11   Administrative enforcement
Equal Housing Opportunity
   
95.25   Definitions
   
95.26   Unlawful practices
   
95.27   Exemptions
   
95.28   Procedure
   
95.29   Remedies; violations
FAIR HOUSING
§ 95.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the Town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being Pub. L. 90-284, 82 Stat. 73,
as amended, the Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The State Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-9-
1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISABILITY.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; or
         (e)   Any other impairment.
      (2)   The term DISABILITY shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in the Controlled Substances
Act, being 21 U.S.C. § 802; nor does the term DISABILITY include an individual
solely because that individual is a transvestite.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
95.04, 95.05, 95.06, 95.07 or 95.08 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined herein.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, limited liability
companies, partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal
representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts,
unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases under Title 11 of the
United States Code, receivers and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 95.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (A)(2) below, §
95.09 of this chapter and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against
discrimination in the sale or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-
1 and in §
95.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
      (1)   All dwellings, except as exempted by division (A)(2) below and I.C.
22-9.5-3; and
      (2)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
95.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
         (a)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that, in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any
person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or
agent of any such broker, agent or salesperson, or person; and
            2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation hereof, but noting in this
provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters,
title companies and other such professional assistance as necessary to perfect
or transfer this title.
         (b)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied
or intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (B)   For the purposes of division (A)(2) above, a person shall be deemed to
be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 95.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
95.03 of this chapter and except as exempted by §§
95.03(A)(2) and
95.09 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin;
      (3)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or
published any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a disability
of:
         (a)   The buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   (a)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions
or privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services
or facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a disability of:
            1.   The person; or
            2.   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
            3.   Any person associated with that person.
         (b)   For purposes of this division (A)(7), DISCRIMINATION includes:
            1.   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the disabled person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises; except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
            2.   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules,
policies, practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to
afford such person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
            3.   In connection with the design and construction of covered
multi-family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months
after 9-13-1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
               a.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings
are readily accessible to and usable by disabled persons;
               b.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
disabled persons in wheelchairs; and
               c.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
                  i.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
                  ii.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and
other environmental controls in accessible locations; and
                  iii.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in
a wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
         (c)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and of the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility an
usability for physically disabled people (commonly cited as “ANSIA117.1”)
suffices to satisfy the requirements hereof.
   (B)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health of
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 95.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this subchapter prohibits a person engaged in the business
of furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors
other than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability or familial
status.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 95.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 95.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
95.03,
95.04,
95.05 or
95.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 95.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex,
disability, familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above;
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
      (3)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according
to local, state and federal law; and, if bodily injury results, shall be fined
not more a penalty pursuant to the Appendix: Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances or imprisoned not more than ten years, or
both; and if death results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of
years or for life.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 95.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. § 5.403 and 24 C.F.R. § 574.3, the definition of
“family” is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 95.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 shall be exempt
from the provisions of this subchapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any non-profit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin; nor shall anything in this subchapter prohibit a private club not in
fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this subchapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 95.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
subchapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set
forth in division (B) below shall be vested in the chief elected official of
the Town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the Town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this subchapter,
herein elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the sections of
this subchapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the chief
elected official of the Town shall refer all said complaints to the Commission
as provided for under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of
investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-
9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the Town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this
subchapter and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the
Commission to further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the Town or the chief elected official’s
designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any aggrieved
person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 1-20-2014)
EQUAL HOUSING OPPORTUNITY
§ 95.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATION or DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. Any difference in
treatment based upon race, color, religion, sex or national origin; or any act
that is unlawful under this subchapter.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Includes any person, as defined herein, engaged in
the business of lending money or guaranteeing losses.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION or DWELLING. Any building, mobile home or trailer,
structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as, or designed, or intended
for occupancy, as a residence by one or more families, and any vacant land
which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or location thereon of
any such building, mobile home or trailer, structure or portion thereof or any
real property, as defined herein, used or intended to be used for any of the
purposes set forth herein.
   MORTGAGE BROKER. An individual who is engaged in or who performs the
business or services of a mortgage broker as the same are defined by state
statutes.
   OPEN MARKET. The market which is informed of the availability for sale,
purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation, whether informed
through a real estate broker or by advertising by publication, signs or by
other advertising methods directed to the public or any portion thereof,
indicating that the property is available for sale, purchase, rental or lease.
   OWNER. Includes a lessee, sub-lessee, co-tenant, assignee, managing agent or
other person having the right of ownership or possession, or the right to sell,
rent or lease any housing accommodation.
   PERSON. Includes individuals, children, firms, associations, joint
adventures, partnerships, estates, trusts, business trusts, syndicates,
fiduciaries, corporations and all other groups or combinations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER or REAL ESTATE SALESPERSON. Includes any individual,
qualified by law, who, for a fee, commission, salary or for other valuable
consideration, or who with the intention or expectation of receiving or
collecting same, lists, sells, purchases, rents or leases any housing
accommodations, including options thereupon, or who negotiates or attempts to
negotiate such activities; or who advertises or holds himself or herself out as
engaged in such activities; or who negotiates or attempts to negotiate a loan,
secured by a mortgage or other encumbrance, upon transfer of any housing
accommodation; or who is engaged in the business of charging an advance fee or
contracting for collection of a fee in connection with a contract whereby he or
she undertakes to promote the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing
accommodation through its listing in a publication issued primarily for such
purpose; or an individual employed by or acting on behalf of any of these.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes buildings, structures, lands tenements, leaseholds,
cooperatives and condominiums.
(2005 Code, § 46.01)
§ 95.26 UNLAWFUL PRACTICES.
   In connection with any of the transactions set forth in this section which
affect any housing accommodation on the open market, or in connection with any
public sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation, it shall
be unlawful with the Town for a person, owner, financial institution, real
estate broker or real estate salesperson, or any representative of the above
to:
   (A)   Refuse to sell, purchase, rent or lease, or deny to or withhold any
housing accommodation from a person because of his or her race, color,
religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth;
   (B)   To discriminate against a person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation,
or in the furnishing of facilities of services in connection therewith;
   (C)   To refuse to receive or transmit a bona fide offer to sell, purchase,
rent or lease any housing accommodation from or to a person because of his or
her race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth;
   (D)   To refuse to negotiate for the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any
housing accommodation to a person because of his or her race, color, religion,
ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth;
   (E)   To represent to a person that any housing accommodation is not
available for inspection, sale, purchase, rental or lease when in fact it is so
available, or to refuse to permit a person to inspect any housing
accommodation, because of his or her race, color religion, or national origin,
sex or place of birth;
   (F)   To make, publish, print, circulate, post or mail, or cause to be made,
published, printed, circulated, posted or mailed, any notice, statement or
advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to sign or to use a form of
application for the sale, purchase, rental, lease or financing of any housing
accommodation, or to make a record of inquiry in connection with the
prospective sale, purchase, rental, lease of financing of any housing
accommodation, or to make a record of inquiry in connection with the
prospective sale, purchase, rental, lease or financing of any housing
accommodation, which indicates any discrimination or any intent to make a
discrimination;
   (G)   To offer, solicit, accept or use a listing of any housing
accommodation for sale, purchase, rental or lease with the understanding that a
person may be subjected to discrimination in connection with such sale,
purchase, rental or lease, or in the furnishing of facilities or services in
connection therewith;
   (H)   Induce directly or indirectly, attempt to induce directly or
indirectly, the sale, purchase, rental or lease, or the listing for any of the
above, of any housing accommodation by representing that the presence or
anticipated presence of persons of any particular race, color, religion, sex or
national origin or place of birth in the area to be affected by such sale,
purchase, rental or lease will or may result in either:
      (1)   The lowering of property values in the area;
      (2)   An increase in criminal or antisocial behavior in the area; or
      (3)   A decline in the quality of schools serving the area.
   (I)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale,
purchase, rental or lease, or the anticipated listing for any of the above, or
the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation in any area in
the Town of Walkerton for the purpose of including or attempting to induce any
such listing or any of the above transactions;
   (J)   To engage in, or hire to be done, or to conspire with others to commit
acts or activities of any nature, the purpose of which is to coerce, cause
panic, incite unrest or create or play upon fear, with the purpose of either
discouraging or inducing, or attempting to induce, the sale, purchase, rental
or lease, or attempting to induce, the sale, purchase, rental or lease, or the
listing for any of the above, of any housing accommodation;
   (K)   To retaliate or discriminate in any manner against a person because he
or she has opposed a practice declared unlawful by this subchapter, or because
he or she has filed a complaint, testified, assisted or participated in any
manner in any investigation, proceeding, hearing or conference under this
subchapter;
   (L)   To aid, abet, incite, compel or coerce any person to engage in any of
the practices prohibited by this subchapter; or to obstruct or prevent any
person from complying with the provisions of this subchapter; or any order
issued thereunder;
   (M)   By canvassing, to commit any unlawful practices prohibited by this
subchapter;
   (N)   Otherwise to deny to, or withhold any housing accommodation from a
person because of his or her race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin,
sex or place of birth;
   (O)   For any bank, building and loan association, insurance company or
other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business consists in
whole or in part, in the making of commercial real estate loans, to deny a loan
or other financial assistance to a person applying therefore for the purpose of
purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling, or to
discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount, interest rate,
duration or other terms or conditions of such loans or other financial
assistance, because of the race, color, religion, sex or national origin of
such person or of any person associated with him or her in connection with such
loan or other financial assistance or the purposes of such loan or other
financial assistance or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants
or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or
other financial assistance is to be made or given; or
   (P)   To deny any qualified person access to or membership or participation
in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’ organization or other
service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her in the terms or
conditions of such access, membership or participation, on account of race,
color, religion, sex or national origin.
(2005 Code, § 46.02)
§ 95.27 EXEMPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   A religious organization, association or society of any nonprofit
institution or organization operating, supervised or controlled by or in
conjunction with a religious organization, association, or society, which
limits the sale, rental or occupancy, of dwellings which it owns or operates
for other than commercial purposes to persons of the same religion, or which
gives reference to such persons, unless membership in such religion is
restricted on account of race, color, sex or national origin;
   (B)   A private club not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to
its primary purpose or purposes, provides lodgings which it owns or operates
for other than a commercial purpose, and which limits the rental or occupancy
of such lodgings to its members or gives preference to its members;
   (C)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided that,
such private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family
houses at any one time; provided further that, in the case of the sale of any
such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in such
house at the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of such
house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this division (C) shall
apply only with respect to one such sale within any 24- month period; provided
further that, such bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest
in, nor is there owned or served on his or her behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses at any one
time; provided further, the sale or rental of any such single-family house
shall be excepted from the application of this subchapter only if such house is
sold or rented:
      (1)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities or
the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson,
or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or
renting dwelling, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent,
salesperson or person; and
      (2)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice, of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of the provisions of 42 U.S.C. §
3604(c) or of this section; but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the
use of attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title; or
   (D)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
(2005 Code, § 46.03)
§ 95.28 PROCEDURE.
   Any person aggrieved by an unlawful practice prohibited by this subchapter
may file with the Clerk-Treasurer within 30 days after the aggrieved person
becomes aware of the alleged unlawful practice, and in no event more than 60
days after the alleged unlawful practice occurred. The Clerk-Treasurer or his
or her duly authorized representative shall investigate each complaint and
attempt to resolve each complaint. Failure to achieve a resolution acceptable
to both parties and compliance with this subchapter shall cause the Clerk-
Treasurer to forward the complaint and his or her findings to appropriate state
and federal officials.
(2005 Code, § 46.04)
§ 95.29 REMEDIES; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent any person from exercising any
right or seeking any remedy to which he or she might otherwise be entitled or
from filing his or her complaint with any appropriate governmental agency.
(2005 Code, § 46.05)
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this subchapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished as provided by law.
(2005 Code, § 46.06)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   CIRCUSES, CARNIVALS AND PARADES
      
111.   CONTRACTORS
      
112.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
113.   SIGNS AND ADVERTISING
      
114.   GARAGE AND YARD SALES
      
115.   TAXICABS
      
116.   SOLICITORS; ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND PEDDLERS
      
117.   JUNK DEALERS
CHAPTER 110: CIRCUSES, CARNIVALS AND PARADES
Section
   
110.01   License required; application, fee and exhibition
   
110.02   Use of streets
   
110.03   License revocation; procedure
   
110.04   License expiration
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION, FEE AND EXHIBITION.
   (A)   (1)   Any person or group of persons desiring to conduct a parade,
circus or carnival, or other similar event within the Town shall first obtain a
license from the office of the Economic Director. The Economic Director shall
keep a complete record in his or her office of all licenses issued.
      (2)   The application for such license shall be similar to the
application provided for in §
116.32(A) of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   No license fee shall be required under this chapter.
      (4)   All circuses, carnivals and parades or similar events coming within
the terms of this code are required to exhibit their license at the request of
any citizen.
(2005 Code, § 42.01)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a parade, circus or
carnival, or other similar event, within the Town without first having obtained
a license as herein provided.
(2005 Code, § 42.06)
§ 110.02 USE OF STREETS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the Town Council of the issuance of any
license for any circus, carnival or parade or similar event and, if the streets
of the Town or any other public place are required to be used therefor, the
same shall be done in conformity with the directions of said Town Council.
(2005 Code, § 42.02)
§ 110.03 LICENSE REVOCATION; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A license granted under this chapter may be subject to revocation on
the same basis as is provided in §
116.35(A) of this code of ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 42.03)
   (B)   The provisions of §
116.35(B) of this code of ordinances shall be applicable hereto.
(2005 Code, § 42.04)
§ 110.04 LICENSE EXPIRATION.
   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire at the time stipulated
on the license or upon revocation.
(2005 Code, § 42.05)
CHAPTER 111: CONTRACTORS
Section
   
111.01   Licensing registration required; annual renewal
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Regulations
   
111.04   Registration process
   
111.05   Non-transferability
   
111.06   Effective date
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 LICENSING REGISTRATION REQUIRED; ANNUAL RENEWAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to engage in business in the Town as a contractor
without first having registered as required by this chapter.
   (B)   Annual renewal of registration shall be required of contractors for
each year they wish to engage in business in the Town.
(Ord. 2001-08, passed 6-4-2001)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRACTOR. Anyone engaging for remuneration in the building construction
business of new construction, repair, alteration or remodeling, for which a
building permit is required, including plumbing, heating, air conditioning or
ventilating and electrical work.
   HANDYMAN. Any person providing for a fee, repair or maintenance services
which would not require a building permit. A HANDYMAN is exempt from the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2001-08, passed 6-4-2001)
§ 111.03 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any contractor engaging for remuneration in the building construction
business of new construction, repair, alteration or remodeling for which a
building permit is required shall be construed as doing business as a
contractor.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of all contractors to comply with the Building
Code adopted by Town and all other ordinances or regulations relating to new
construction, alterations, repairs and remodeling.
   (C)   Failure to comply with the Building Code and all other applicable
local, state and federal laws and regulations shall be grounds for suspension
or revocation of a building permit, issued hereunder, and may be grounds for
refusal to renew an application for a contractor’s licensing registration.
(Ord. 2001-08, passed 6-4-2001)
§ 111.04 REGISTRATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Application and forms. All forms required by this section shall be
made available in the office of the Building Commissioner and shall be kept on
file in that office. Every application for registration or renewal thereof, as
required by this section, shall be filed with the office of the Building
Commissioner. Such registrations shall be reviewed by the Building Commissioner
as to their content and applicability and shall be reviewed on an annual basis.
   (B)   Term of registration. All registrations received under this section
shall be for a term of one year commencing on the date of issuance.
   (C)   Proof of worker’s compensation coverage. Applicants must provide
written proof of worker’s compensation coverage, such as a certificate of
insurance, at the time of making application if they have any employees.
   (D)   Surety bond. Each applicant for registration must also provide a
surety bond payable to the Town in the penal sum of $5,000, conditioned upon
faithful compliance with the provisions of the Building Code as it relates to
work performed by the applicant, and agreeing to pay all damages, costs and
expenses caused by the applicant through failure to comply with such
provisions. Said surety bond, as approved by the Building Commissioner, shall
also be conditioned to reimburse the Town for all damages caused by any act or
omission of the contractor or any of his or her agents to any property which
the Town may own or for which it may be responsible, and to hold the Town free
and harmless from claims for damages on account of negligence of misfeasance or
malfeasance of the contractor and from all cost and expenses growing out of the
defense of these claims.
(Ord. 2001-08, passed 6-4-2001)
Editor’s note:
   See Ord. 2004-3, passed 6-21-2004, regarding bonding of contractors.
§ 111.05 NON-TRANSFERABILITY.
   The surety bond must be renewed each year. All contractor’s licensing
registrations issued under this chapter are non-transferable.
(Ord. 2001-08, passed 6-4-2001)
§ 111.06 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter was in full force and effect on 7-2-2001.
(Ord. 2001-08, passed 6-4-2001)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Upon learning that a person or entity is doing business as a
contractor, as defined herein, without having registered, a citation shall be
issued to said person or entity by the Building Commissioner of the Town for
each violation.
   (B)   Citations may be issued for each and every violation of the required
provisions of this chapter, and each such violation shall be treated as a
separate act for which a citation may be issued.
   (C)   Citations issued under this chapter shall contain the date, time, name
and address of the violator, the code section violated, the nature of the
violation, location of the violation, the name of the officer issuing the
citation and instructions as to the disposition of the citation(s).
   (D)   Each citation issued under this chapter shall impose a fine, pursuant
to the Appendix: Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances, payable through the office of the Violations
Bureau. If the contractor fails to pay any fine or penalty imposed on the
contractor pursuant to the terms of this chapter within 30 days, then the Town
may recover such fine or fines as have been imposed on said contractor from the
surety bond posted by said contractor.
   (E)   Additionally, whenever any work is being done contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, the Building Commissioner, or his or her designee,
may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on any persons engaged
in the doing or causing such work to be done, and any such persons shall
forthwith stop such work until authorized by the Building Commissioner, or his
or her designee, to proceed with the work.
   (F)   Any person who subsequently violates any provisions of this chapter in
the same year for which registration was required shall be subject to a civil
penalty pursuant to the Appendix: Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances.
   (G)   Each subsequent day of violation shall be considered a separate
offense for which a citation may be issued.
(Ord. 2001-08, passed 6-4-2001)
CHAPTER 112: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Title
   
112.02   Definitions
Franchise Regulations
   
112.15   Grant of authority
   
112.16   Duration of franchise and renewal
   
112.17   Service requirements, construction timetables and line extensions
   
112.18   Construction and technical standards
   
112.19   Transfers and assignments
   
112.20   Subscriber service rates
   
112.21   Payment of franchise fee
   
112.22   Required services and facilities
   
112.23   Use of streets
   
112.24   Indemnification and insurance
   
112.25   Letter of credit
   
112.26   Performance bond
   
112.27   Service standards
   
112.28   Subscriber policy
   
112.29   Complaint procedure
   
112.30   Availability of books and records
   
112.31   Other petitions and applications
   
112.32   Fiscal reports
   
112.33   Forfeiture and termination
   
112.34   Rights of individuals
   
112.35   Acceptance and effective date of franchise
   
112.36   Grantee’s application incorporated
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Walkerton Cable
Television Franchise”.
(2005 Code, § 95.1)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number and words in the
singular number include the plural number. The word “shall” is always mandatory
and not merely directory.
   CABLE CASTING. Programming carried on a cable system, exclusive of broadcast
signals, whether originated by the cable operator or any other party.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM or CATV SYSTEM. A system of antennas, cables, wires,
lines, towers, wave guides or other conductors, converters, equipment or
facilities designated and constructed for the purpose of producing, receiving,
transmitting, amplifying and distributing audio, video and other forms of
electronic or electrical signals located in the Town. Said definition shall not
include any such facility that serves or will serve only subscribers in one or
more multiple unit dwellings under common ownership, control or management and
does not use Town rights-of-way.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   GRANTEE. The party or parties to which a franchise under this chapter is
granted by the Town Council and its or their lawful successors and assigns.
   GROSS REVENUES. Any and all compensation in whatever forms, exchange or
otherwise derived from the provision of all cable services in the Town.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person, firm, corporation or other entity receiving or wired
to receive for any purpose the service of the grantee herein.
   TOWN. The Town of Walkerton, St. Joseph County, Indiana, in its present
incorporated form or as it may be changed by annexation.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Walkerton, St. Joseph County,
Indiana.
   TWO-WAY COMMUNICATIONS. The transmission of telecommunications signals from
subscriber locations or other points throughout the system back to the systems
control center as well as transmission of signals from the control center to
subscriber locations.
   USER. A party utilizing a cable television system channel for purposes of
production or transmission of material to subscribers as contrasted with
receipt in a subscriber capacity.
(2005 Code, § 95.2)
FRANCHISE REGULATIONS
§ 112.15 GRANT OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   There is hereby granted by the Town, to the grantee, the non-exclusive
franchise right and privilege to construct, erect, operate and maintain in,
upon, along, across, above and under streets, alleys, public ways and public
places now laid out or dedicated and all extensions thereof and additions
thereof in the Town poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes and
other television conductors and fixtures necessary for the maintenance and
operation in the Town of a cable television system for the purpose of
distributing television and radio programs and various communications and other
electronic signals to the public. The right so granted includes the right to
use and occupy said streets, alleys, public ways and public places and all
manner of easements for the purposes herein set forth in accordance with the
laws and ordinances of the state and the laws and ordinances of the Town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the right
to use and occupy said streets, alleys, public ways and places for the purpose
herein set forth shall not be exclusive and the Town Council reserves the right
to grant a similar use of said streets, alleys, public ways and places to any
other person or persons at any time during the term of this franchise.
(2005 Code, § 95.3)
§ 112.16 DURATION OF FRANCHISE AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   The duration of the rights, privileges and authorizations hereby
granted shall be 15 years from the date the franchise is awarded. The franchise
may be renewed by the Town upon application of the grantee pursuant to the
procedure established in division (B) below and in accordance with the then-
applicable law.
   (B)   (1)   At least 18 months prior to the expiration of the franchise, the
grantee shall inform the Town in writing of its intent to seek renewal of the
franchise and thereupon file with the Town a proposal for services.
      (2)   After giving public notice, the Town Council shall proceed to
determine whether the grantee has satisfactorily performed its obligations
under the franchise. In determining satisfactory performance, the Town Council
shall consider technical developments and performance of the system,
programming, other services offered, cost of services and any other particular
requirements set in this chapter; also the Town Council shall consider the
grantee’s proposal and its annual reports made to the Town and the FCC
provisions shall be made for public comment.
      (3)   A four-month period shall be provided to determine the grantee’s
eligibility for renewal.
      (4)   The Town Council shall then prepare within two months any
amendments to this chapter that it believes necessary.
      (5)   If, based upon the grantee’s performance during this franchise
term, the grantee’s new proposal and reports thereon and the public hearings,
the Town Council finds a renewal of the franchise with the grantee within the
public interest Town Council may enter into a renewal of the franchise with
grantee under such terms and conditions and for an additional term not to
exceed 15 years.
      (6)   In the event the grantee is determined by the Town Council to have
performed unsatisfactorily, the grantee will not be eligible to receive an
additional term and new applicants will be sought and evaluated and a franchise
award will be made by the Town Council to a new applicant.
(2005 Code, § 95.4)
§ 112.17 SERVICE REQUIREMENTS, CONSTRUCTION TIMETABLE AND LINE EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Within 24 months from the date of the award of this franchise the
grantee must make cable televisions service available to every dwelling unit
within the Town. The grantee must make cable televisions service available to
at least 50% of the dwelling units within the Town within one year from the
date of the award of the franchise.
   (B)   Any delay beyond the terms of this timetable unless specifically
approved by the Town Council will be considered a violation of this chapter for
which the provisions of either §§
112.33 and
112.99 of this chapter shall apply as determined by the Town Council.
   (C)   With respect to requests for connection requiring an aerial drop line
in excess of 200 feet, the grantee must extend and make available cable
television service to such residence at a connection charge not to exceed the
actual installation costs incurred by the grantee for this distance exceeding
200 feet.
   (D)   In no event shall construction begin any later than six months after
the date of certification from the FCC, a copy of which certification shall be
delivered to the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   The grantee shall extend the cable system into annexed areas of the
Town provided said area is not specifically already receiving service by
another company, within one year from the effective date of said annexation.
(2005 Code, § 95.5)
§ 112.18 CONSTRUCTION AND TECHNICAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   The grantee shall construct, install, operate and maintain its
system in a manner consistent with all laws, ordinances, construction
standards, governmental requirements, FCC technical standards and detailed
standards submitted by the grantee as part of its application, which standards
are incorporated by reference herein.
      (2)   In addition, the grantee shall provide the Town, upon request, with
a written report of the results of the grantee’s annual proof of performance
tests conducted pursuant to FCC standards and requirements.
   (B)   Construction, installation and maintenance of the cable communications
system shall be performed in an orderly and workmanlike manner. All cables and
wires shall be installed where possible, parallel with electric and telephone
lines. Multiple cable configurations shall be arranged in parallel and bundled
with due respect for engineering considerations.
   (C)   The grantee shall, at all times, comply with:
      (1)   National Electrical Safety Code of the Institute of Electrical and
Electronic Engineers;
      (2)   National Electric Code of the National Fire Protection Association;
      (3)   Applicable FCC or other federal, state and local regulations; and
      (4)   In any event the system shall not endanger or interfere with the
safety of persons or property in the franchise area or other areas where the
grantee may have equipment located.
   (D)   The Town shall retain the right to supervise all construction and
installation work performed subject to the provisions of this chapter and to
make such inspections as it may find necessary to ensure compliance with
governing ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 95.6)
§ 112.19 TRANSFERS AND ASSIGNMENTS.
   (A)   This franchise shall not be assigned or transferred either in whole or
in part or leased, sublet or mortgaged in any manner, nor shall title thereto,
either legal or equitable or any right, interest or property therein pass to or
vest in any person, either by the act of the grantee or by operation of law
without the consent of the Town Council; provided that, nothing in this
division (A) shall be deemed to prohibit a mortgage or pledge of the cable
television system, or any part thereof for the purpose of financing the cable
television system. The granting, giving or waiving of any one or more of such
consents shall not render unnecessary any subsequent consent or consents.
   (B)   The grantee shall promptly notify the Town of any actual or proposed
change in or transfer of or acquisition by any other party of control of the
grantee. The word “control”, as used herein, is not limited to major
stockholders, but includes actual working control in whatever manner exercised.
Every change, transfer or acquisition of control of the grantee shall make this
franchise subject to cancellation unless and until the Town Council shall have
consented thereto. For the purpose of determining whether it shall consent to
such change, transfer or acquisition of control, the Town Council may inquire
into the qualifications of the prospective controlling party and the grantee
shall assist the Town Council in any such inquiry. If the Town Council does not
schedule a hearing on the matter within 60 days after notice of the change or
proposed change and the filing of a petition requesting such consent, it shall
be deemed to have consented. In the event that the Town Council adopts a
resolution denying its consent and such change, transfer or acquisition of
control has been effected, the Town Council may cancel this franchise unless
control of the grantee is restored to a status acceptable to the Town Council.
   (C)   In the absence of extraordinary circumstances, the Town Council will
not approve any transfer or assignment of the franchise prior to substantial
completion of construction of the proposed system.
   (D)   The grantee shall not consolidate or merge or enter into any agreement
in restriction of competition with any other person, firm or corporation
engaged in the transmission of television signals by cable to members of the
public within limits of the Town and shall not purchase or otherwise acquire
all or any portion of any system or plant within the Town or any other person,
firm or corporation engaged in the transmission of televisions signals by cable
to members of the public within the limits of the Town without the prior
consent of the Town Council, which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld.
(2005 Code, § 95.7)
§ 112.20 SUBSCRIBER SERVICE RATES.
   (A)   Initial rates. The grantee may initially charge subscribers and users
of the CATV system for services up to the amounts specified in its schedule of
rates and charges as proposed in its franchise application and attached to the
ordinance codified herein as Exhibit “A”, which is adopted by reference as if
set out in full herein. Such maximum rates shall be in effect until the grantee
has completed the initial construction of the system as provided in §
112.17 of this chapter.
   (B)   Rate increases. Prior to any increase in the maximum rates and charges
to be charged, the grantee must petition the Town Council for a change in rates
by filing in triplicate a proposed rate schedule with the Town Clerk-Treasurer,
which petition shall include the justifications for the proposed schedule of
rates and charges. Said petition shall be filed at least 90 days prior to the
requested implementation date of the rate change. One copy of the petition
shall remain on file with the Town Clerk-Treasurer and be open for public
inspection.
      (1)   Within 90 days of the filing of the petition for rate change, the
Town Council shall hold an appropriate public hearing to consider the proposed
rate change, at which hearing all persons desiring to be heard, including the
grantee shall be heard on any matter, including, but not limited to, the
performance of this franchise, the grantee’s services and the proposed new
rates. Notice of any public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of
general circulation at least once but may be published two or more times;
provided that, one publication occurs not less than seven, nor more than 21,
days before said public hearing.
      (2)   Within 30 days after said hearing, the Town Council shall render a
written decision on the grantee’s petition, either accepting, rejecting,
modifying or deferring the same and reciting the basis of its decision. The
Town Council shall consider the following factors in approving or disapproving
the petition:
         (a)   The ability of the grantee to render system services and to
derive a reasonable profit therefrom under the existing rate schedule and under
the proposed rate schedule;
         (b)   The revenues and profits derived from systems services;
         (c)   The efficiency of the grantee;
         (d)   The quality of the services offered by the grantee;
         (e)   The extent to which the grantee has adhered to the terms of this
agreement; and
         (f)   Fairness to Town residents, subscribers and users.
      (3)   If the Town Council fails to render a written decision either
accepting, rejecting, modifying or deferring the grantee’s petition within 30
days after said hearings, the grantee shall thereafter be entitled to put its
proposed new rates into effect.
      (4)   The grantee’s petition for a rate increase shall include sufficient
materials so as to allow the Town Council to make a reasonable investigation of
the need for said rate increases.
(2005 Code, § 95.8)
§ 112.21 PAYMENT OF FRANCHISE FEE.
   (A)   The grantee shall pay to the Town for and in consideration of the
right and privilege to conduct cable television operations pursuant to this
franchise an annual fee in an amount equal to 3% of its gross revenues as
defined in §
112.02 of this chapter, which revenue is derived from the grantee’s cable
television operations in the Town with each year’s fee due and payable to the
Clerk-Treasurer of the Town by March 31 for the preceding calendar year.
   (B)   In the event of revocation or termination of this franchise, the final
annual fee payment shall be pro-rated from the immediately preceding January 1
to the date of termination of service.
   (C)   The grantee shall annually file with the Town Council by March 1 for
the preceding calendar year, an annual report of all revenues and expenses
within the Town. The Town Council may, at any reasonable time have access to
the grantee’s books and records for audit purposes upon providing the grantee
written notice for such access stating the reason therefor, at least 30 days
before exercising its rights to access as referred to in this division (C).
   (D)   In the event that any franchise payment or recomputed amount, cost or
penalty is not made on or before the applicable dates heretofore specified,
interest shall be charged daily from such date at an annual rate of 18%.
   (E)   The grantee shall, on or before March 1 of each year, file with the
Town Clerk-Treasurer, true and accurate maps or plats showing the location of
all existing cables, whether leased or owned outright. Attached to such maps or
plats shall be a list by address of current subscribers.
(2005 Code, § 95.9)
§ 112.22 REQUIRED SERVICES AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   The cable televisions system shall have at least 35 channels available
for immediate use.
   (B)   Such system shall maintain a plant having the technical capacity for
return or “two-way” communications.
   (C)   The grantee shall maintain at least one specially designated channel
for use by local educational or local government authorities and shall have
available upon reasonable notice, equipment for local production and
presentation of cable cast programs other than automated services and the
grantee shall permit its use for the production and presentation of public
access programs.
   (D)   The grantee shall incorporate into its cable television system, the
capacity which will permit the Town, in times of emergency, to override, by
remote control, the audio of all channels simultaneously. The grantee shall
designate a channel which will be used for emergency broadcasts of both audio
and video. The grantee shall cooperate with the Town in the use and operation
of the emergency alert override system.
   (E)   The grantee shall provide such additional services and facilities as
are contained in its application which is incorporated by reference herein.
   (F)   The grantor agrees to and shall furnish, without installation charge
or monthly service fee, a free connection to the local police station
facilities and one connection to all fire houses to the Community Building, to
the Public Library and any other building or buildings designated by the Town
Council and to all public and parochial, elementary and secondary schools
located with the Town limits.
(2005 Code, § 95.10)
§ 112.23 USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   All transmission and distribution structures, lines and equipment
erected by the grantee within the Town shall be so located as to cause minimum
interference with the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who
adjoin any of said streets.
   (B)   In case of disturbance of any street or paved area, the grantee shall,
at is own cost and expense and in a manner approved by the Town Council,
replace and restore such street or paved area in as good a condition as before
the work involving such disturbance was done.
   (C)   If, at any time during the period of the franchise, the Town shall
lawfully elect to alter or change the grade of any street, the grantee, upon
reasonable notice by the Town, shall remove, relay and relocate its poles,
wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes and other fixtures at its own
expense.
   (D)   Any poles or other fixtures placed in or adjacent to any street by the
grantee shall be placed in such manner as to comply with all requirements of
the Town.
   (E)   The grantee shall, at the request of any person holding a moving
permit issued by the Town, temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the
moving of buildings. The expense of such temporary removal or raising or
lowering of wires shall be paid by the person requesting the same and the
grantee shall have the authority to require such payment in advance. The
grantee shall be given not less than 48' hours notice to arrange for such
temporary wire changes. The Town or any other non-profit organization,
including historical societies, shall be exempt from any such charges.
   (F)   The grantee shall have the authority to trim trees upon and over
hanging streets of the Town so as to prevent the branches of such trees from
coming in contact with the wires and cables of the grantee; except that, at the
option of the Town, such trimming may be done by it or under its supervision
and direction at the expense of the grantee.
   (G)   In all sections of the Town where the cables, wires or other like
facilities of public utilities are placed under ground, the grantee shall place
its cables, wires or other like facilities under ground.
   (H)   At the expiration of the term for which the franchise is granted or
upon its termination and cancellation as provided for herein, the Town shall
have the right to require the grantee to remove, at its own expense, all
portions of the cable television system within the Town.
   (I)   In the event that any street, alley, public highway or utility
easement or any portion thereof, used by the grantee shall be vacated by the
Town or the use thereof discontinued by the grantee during the term of this
franchise, the grantee shall forthwith remove its facilities therefrom unless
specifically permitted to leave them there, and upon the removal thereof,
restore, repair or reconstruct the street area where such removal has occurred
in such condition as may be required by the Town. In the event of failure,
neglect or refusal of the grantee, after 30 days’ notice by the Town Council to
repair, improve or maintain such streets, the Town may do such work or cause it
to be done and the cost thereof as found and declared by the Town shall be paid
by the grantee and collection may be by court action or otherwise.
   (J)   The grantee shall, whenever possible and practicable, use the poles
owned and maintained by the Town and/or the utility company(ies) which service
the Town. When the use of such poles is not practicable or satisfactory and
rental agreements cannot be entered into with said parties, the grantee shall
have the right to erect and maintain its own poles, as may be necessary for the
proper construction and maintenance of the television distribution system.
(2005 Code, § 95.11)
§ 112.24 INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   It shall be expressly understood and agreed by and between the Town
and any grantee hereunder that the grantee shall save the Town and its agents
and employees harmless from and against all claims, damages, losses and
expenses, including attorneys fees sustained by the Town on account of any
suit, judgment, execution, claim or demand whatsoever arising out of, but not
limited to, copyright infringements and all other damages arising out of the
installation, operation, or maintenance of the cable system authorized herein,
whether or not any act or omission complained of is authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter and any franchise granted hereunder.
   (B)   The grantee shall maintain, and by its acceptance of the franchise,
specifically agrees that it will maintain throughout the term of the franchise,
liability insurance insuring the Town and grantee in the minimum amount of
$1,000,000.
   (C)   Neither the provisions of this section nor any damages recovered by
the Town thereunder shall be construed to, nor limit the liability of, the
grantee under any franchise issued hereunder or for damages.
   (D)   The grantee shall also carry such insurance as it deems necessary to
protect it and the Town from any and all claims under the worker’s compensation
laws in effect that may be applicable to the grantee and all insurance required
by this section shall be and remain in full force and effect for the entire
period of their franchise and a copy of the policy or a certified copy thereof
shall be filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   All insurance policies maintained pursuant to this franchise shall
contain the following endorsement:
“It is hereby understood and agreed that this insurance policy may not be
canceled by the surety, nor the intention not to renew be stated by the surety
until sixty (60) days after receipt by the Town by registered mail of written
notice of such intention to cancel or not to renew.”
(2005 Code, § 95.12)
§ 112.25 LETTER OF CREDIT.
   (A)   Within ten days after the award of this franchise, the grantee shall
deposit with the Town a letter of credit from a financial institution in the
amount of $5,000. The form and content of such letter of credit shall be
approved by the Town Attorney. The letter of credit shall be used to insure the
faithful performance by the grantee of all provisions of this franchise and
compliance with all orders, permits and directions of any agency, commission,
board, a department, division or office of the Town having jurisdiction over
its acts or defaults under this franchise and the payment by the grantee of any
claims, liens and taxes due the Town which arise by reason of the construction,
operation or maintenance of the system.
   (B)   The letter of credit shall be maintained at $5,000 during the entire
term of this franchise, even if amounts have to be withdrawn pursuant to
divisions (A) above and (C) below.
   (C)   If the grantee fails to pay to the Town any compensation within the
time fixed herein; or fails after ten days’ notice to pay to the Town any taxes
due and unpaid; or fails to repay the Town within ten days any damages, costs
or expenses which the Town is compelled to pay by reason of any act or default
of the grantee in connection with this franchise; or fails after three days’
notice of such failure by the Town to comply with any provision of this
franchise which the Town reasonably determines can be remedied by demand on the
letter of credit, the Town may immediately request payment of the amount
thereof with interest and any penalties from the letter of credit. Upon such
request for payment, the Town shall notify the grantee of the amount and date
thereof.
   (D)   The rights reserved to the Town with respect to the letter of credit
are in addition to all other rights of the Town, whether reserved by this
franchise or authorized by law and no action, proceeding or exercise of a right
with respect to such letter of credit shall affect any other right the Town may
have.
   (E)   The letter of credit shall contain the following endorsement:
         “It is hereby understood and agreed that this letter of credit may not
be cancelled by the surety nor the intention not to renew be stated by the
surety until sixty (60) days after receipt by the Town by registered mail of
written notice of such intention to cancel or not to renew.”
(2005 Code, § 95.13)
§ 112.26 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   (A)   (1)   Within 30 days after the award of this franchise, the grantee
shall obtain and maintain at its cost and expense and file with the Town a
corporate surety bond in a company authorized to do business in the state and
found acceptable by the Town Attorney in the amount of $185,000 to guarantee
the timely construction and full activation of the CATV system. Said
performance bond shall also include a labor and material payment bond.
      (2)   The bond shall provide, but not be limited to, the following
condition: there shall be recoverable by the Town, jointly and severally, from
the principal and surety any and all damages, loss or costs suffered by the
Town resulting from the failure of the grantee to satisfactorily complete and
fully activate the CATV system throughout the franchise area pursuant to the
terms and conditions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any extension to the prescribed time limit must be authorized by the
Town Council. Such extension shall be authorized only when the Town Council
finds that such extension is necessary and appropriate due to causes beyond the
control of the grantee.
   (C)   The performance bond shall be terminated only after the Town Council
finds that the grantee has satisfactorily completed the initial construction
and activation of the CATV system pursuant to the terms and conditions of this
chapter.
   (D)   The rights reserved to the Town with respect to the performance bond
are in addition to all other rights of the Town whether reserved by this
chapter or authorized by law and no action, proceeding or exercise of a right
with respect to such performance bond shall affect any other rights the Town
may have.
   (E)   The performance bond shall contain the following endorsement:
         “It is hereby understood and agreed that this bond may not be
cancelled by the surety nor the intention not to renew be stated by the surety
until sixty (60) days after receipt by the Town by registered mail of written
notice of such intent to cancel or not to renew.”
(2005 Code, § 95.14)
§ 112.27 SERVICE STANDARDS.
   (A)   The grantee shall put, keep and maintain all parts of the system in
good condition throughout the entire franchise period.
   (B)   Upon termination of service to any subscriber, the grantee shall
promptly remove all its facilities and equipment from the premises of such
subscriber upon his or her request.
   (C)   The grantee shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly and
interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible. Such
interruptions in so far as possible shall be preceded by notice and shall occur
during periods of minimum system use.
   (D)   The grantee shall not allow its cable or other operations to interfere
with television reception of persons not served by the grantee, nor shall the
system interfere with, obstruct or hinder in any manner the operation of the
various utilities serving the residents of the Town.
   (E)   Should it be impossible or impractical to correct any malfunctions
within 24 hours or less, then each subscriber whose television reception is so
disrupted shall receive a rebate from the grantee in the amount of one-
thirtieth of such subscriber’s monthly charge for every additional 24-hour
period that said subscriber’s television reception is so disrupted, unless said
disruption in service was entirely beyond its control. Any rebate made to any
subscriber under this section, in any month, shall not exceed said subscriber’s
normal monthly fee paid to the grantee.
(2005 Code, § 95.15)
§ 112.28 SUBSCRIBER PRIVACY.
   When the state of the art in this CATV system permits two-way voice or
visual communication, the following restrictions shall apply.
   (A)   No monitoring of any terminal connected to this system shall take
place without specific written authorization by the user of the terminal in
question on each occasion. In no event shall monitoring of any kind take place
without a clearly visible light signal and clearly audible sound signal. A
light shall be visible and the sound audible at a distance of at least 30 feet
from the terminal at the time of monitoring.
   (B)   Each terminal shall be equipped with a switch by which the user can
prevent the monitoring of his or her terminal.
   (C)   Tapping or monitoring a system without authorization from the parties
whose communication might be overheard shall constitute a breach of a condition
for which the remedy of forfeiture of the franchise applies.
(2005 Code, § 95.16)
§ 112.29 COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The grantee shall maintain an office in the Town which shall be open
during all usual business hours having a publicly listed telephone and be so
operated that complaints and requests for repairs or adjustments may be
received on a 24-hour basis.
   (B)   The grantee shall maintain a repair and maintenance crew capable of
responding to subscriber complaints or request for service within 24 hours
after receipt of the complaint or request. No charge shall be made to the
subscriber for this service.
   (C)   The grantee shall establish procedures for receiving, acting upon and
resolving subscriber complaints which procedures shall be satisfactory to the
Town Council. The grantee shall furnish a notice of such procedures to each
subscriber at the time of initial subscription to the system.
   (D)   In the event that a customer complaint is not resolved to the mutual
satisfaction of the customer or the grantee, either the customer or the grantee
may request that the matter be presented to the Town Council for a hearing and
resolution.
   (E)   When there have been similar complaints made or when there exists
other evidence which, in the judgment of the Town Council, casts a doubt on the
reliability or quality of cable service, the Town Council shall have the right
and authority to compel the grantee to test, analyze and report on the
performance of the system. Such report shall be delivered to the Town Council
no later than 14 days after the Town Council formally notifies the grantee and
shall include the following information:
      (1)   The nature of the complaints which precipitated the special test;
      (2)   What system component was tested, the equipment used and procedures
employed in said testing; and
      (3)   The results of such tests and the method in which the said
complaints were resolved.
   (F)   Said tests and analysis shall be supervised by a professional engineer
not on the permanent staff of the grantee company. The aforesaid engineer
should sign all records of the special test and forward to the Town Council
such records with a report interpreting the results of the tests and
recommending actions to be taken by the Town.
(2005 Code, § 95.17)
§ 112.30 AVAILABILITY OF BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   Grantees shall fully cooperate in making available at reasonable times and
the Town Council shall have the right to inspect the books, records, maps,
plans and other like materials of the grantee applicable to the CATV system at
anytime during normal business hours; provided, where volume and convenience
necessitate, the grantee may require inspections to take place on the grantee’s
premises.
(2005 Code, § 95.18)
§ 112.31 OTHER PETITIONS AND APPLICATIONS.
   Copies of all petitions, applications, communications and reports submitted
by the grantee to the Federal Communications Commission, Securities and
Exchange Commission or any other federal or state regulatory commission or
agency having jurisdiction in respect to any matters affecting cable television
operations authorized pursuant to the franchise shall be provided
simultaneously to the Town.
(2005 Code, § 95.19)
§ 112.32 FISCAL REPORTS.
   The grantee shall file annually with the Town Council, no later than 120
days after the end of the grantee’s fiscal year, a copy of the financial report
applicable to the Town’s CATV system, including an income statement applicable
to its operations during the preceding 12-month period, a balance sheet and a
statement of its properties devoted to CATV system operations by categories,
giving its investment in such properties on the basis of original cost, less
applicable depreciation. These reports shall be certified as correct by an
authorized officer of the grantee and there shall be submitted along with them
such other reasonable information as the Town Council shall request with
respect to the grantee’s properties and expenses related to its CATV system
operations within the Town.
(2005 Code, § 95.20)
§ 112.33 FORFEITURE AND TERMINATION.
   (A)   In addition to all the rights and powers retained by the Town under
this franchise, or otherwise, the Town reserves the right to forfeit and
terminate the franchise and all rights and privileges of the grantee hereunder
in the event of a substantial breach of its terms and conditions. A substantial
breach by the grantee shall include, but shall not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Violation of any material provision of the franchise or a material
rule, order, regulation or determination of the Town made pursuant to the
franchise;
      (2)   Attempt to evade any material provision of the franchise or
practices any fraud or deceit upon the Town or its subscribers or customers;
      (3)   Failure to begin or complete the system construction or system
extension as provided under the franchise;
      (4)   Failure to provide the types of services promised herein;
      (5)   Failure to restore service after 96 consecutive hours of
interrupted service, except when approval of such interruption is obtained from
the Town;
      (6)   Failure of the system to be operative for 30 days out of any
consecutive 12-month period; or
      (7)   Material misrepresentations of fact in the application for or
negotiation of the franchise.
   (B)   The foregoing shall not constitute a major breach if the violation
occurs, but it is without fault of the grantee or occurs as a result of
circumstances beyond its control. The grantee shall not be excused by mere
economic hardship, nor any misfeasance or malfeasance of its directors,
officers or employees.
   (C)   The Town may make a written demand that the grantee comply with any
such provision, rule, order or determination under or pursuant to this
franchise. If the violation by the grantee continues for a period of 30 days
following such written demand without written proof that the corrective action
has been taken or is being actively and expeditiously pursued, the Town may
place the issue of termination of the franchise before the Town Council. The
Town shall cause to be served upon the grantee at least 20 days prior to the
date of such a Town Council meeting, a written notice of intent to request such
termination and the time and place of the meeting. Public notice shall be given
of the meeting, and issue which the Town Council is to consider.
   (D)   The Town Council shall hear and consider the issue and shall hear any
person interested herein and shall determine, in its discretion, whether or not
any violation by the grantee has occurred.
   (E)   If the Town Council shall determine the violation by the grantee was
the fault of grantee and within its control, the Town Council may, by
resolution declare that the franchise of the grantee shall be forfeited and
terminated unless there is compliance within such period as the Town Council
may fix, such period not to be less than 60 days; provided, no opportunity for
compliance need be granted for fraud or misrepresentation.
   (F)   The issue of forfeiture and termination shall automatically be placed
upon the Town Council agenda at the expiration of the time set by it for
compliance. The Town Council then may terminate the franchise forthwith upon
finding that the grantee has failed to achieve compliance or may further extend
the period in its discretion.
(2005 Code, § 95.21)
§ 112.34 RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   The grantee shall not deny service, deny access or otherwise
discriminate against subscribers, channel users or general citizens on the
basis of race, color, religion, national origin or sex. The grantee shall
comply at all times with all other applicable federal, state and local laws and
regulations and all executive and administrative orders relating to non-
discrimination which are hereby incorporated and made a part of this chapter by
reference.
   (B)   The grantee shall strictly adhere to the equal employment opportunity
requirements of federal, state and local regulations and as amended from time
to time.
   (C)   The grantee, or any of its agents or employees, shall not, without the
specific written authorization of the subscriber involved sell or otherwise
make available to any party, lists of the names and addresses of such
subscribers or any list which identifies the individual viewing habits of
subscribers.
(2005 Code, § 95.23)
§ 112.35 ACCEPTANCE AND EFFECTIVE DATE OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   No franchise granted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall
become effective unless and until this chapter has become effective and in
addition unless all things required in this section are done and completed, all
of such things being hereby declared to be conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of any such franchise granted hereunder. In the event of any of
such things are not done and completed in the time and manner required, the
Town Council may declare this franchise null and void.
   (B)   Within 30 days after the effective date of this chapter awarding a
franchise or within such extended period of time as the Town Council, in its
discretion, may authorize, the grantee shall file with the Town Clerk-Treasurer
its written acceptance in form satisfactory to the Town Attorney, of the
franchise, together with a letter of credit, bond and insurance policies
required by §§
112.24,
112.25 and
112.26 of this chapter and its agreement to be bound by and to comply with and
do all things required of the by the provisions of this chapter. Such
acceptance and agreement shall be acknowledged by the grantee before a notary
public and shall be in a form and content to be satisfactory to and approved by
the Town Attorney.
(2005 Code, § 95.24)
§ 112.36 GRANTEE’S APPLICATION INCORPORATED.
   By its acceptance of the franchise, the grantee specifically grants and
agrees that its application is thereby incorporated by reference and made a
part of this chapter. In the event of a conflict between proposed services
listed in said application and the provisions of this chapter, that provision
which provides the greatest benefit to the Town in the opinion of the Town
Council shall prevail. Failure to provide services as promised in the grantee’s
application as incorporated herein shall be deemed a breach of this chapter, to
which the provisions of §§
112.33 and
112.99 of this chapter shall apply.
(2005 Code, § 95.25)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   For the violation of any of the following provisions of this franchise,
penalties shall be chargeable to the letter of credit as follows.
   (A)   For failure to complete system construction in accordance with §
112.17 of this chapter unless the Town Council specifically approves the delay
by motion or resolution due to the occurrence of conditions beyond the
grantee’s control, the grantee shall pay a sum pursuant to the Appendix: Fines
and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances, each day or part thereof the deficiency
continues.
   (B)   For failure to provide data, documents, reports, information or to
cooperate with Town during an application process or CATV system review, the
grantee shall pay a sum pursuant to the Appendix: Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances, per day each violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   For failure to test, analyze and report on the performance of the
system following a request pursuant to this franchise, the grantee shall pay to
Town a sum pursuant to the Appendix: Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances, per day for each day or part thereof that
such non- compliance continues.
   (D)   Forty-five days following adoption of a resolution of the Town Council
determining a failure of the grantee to comply with operational maintenance
standards, the grantee shall pay to the Town a sum pursuant to the Appendix:
Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances, per day for each day or part thereof that
such non-compliance continues.
(2005 Code, § 95.22)
CHAPTER 113: SIGNS AND ADVERTISING
Section
   
113.01   Theatrical bills and posters
   
113.02   Distribution of advertising restricted
   
113.03   Throwing away advertisements
   
113.04   Consent required to post advertisement
   
113.05   Painting on curbs prohibited
   
113.06   Posters on utility poles prohibited
   
113.07   Signs over sidewalks restricted; sign posts
   
113.08   Permit required to hang signs; fee
   
113.09   Proof of financial responsibility
   
113.10   Inspections of signs
§ 113.01 THEATRICAL BILLS AND POSTERS.
   No person shall post or stick up any bill, card, poster or advertisement
within the Town advertising shows, lectures, theater plays or other
entertainment of any person, company or troupe not residing or organized in the
Town without first procuring a license from the Town.
(2005 Code, § 74.01)
§ 113.02 DISTRIBUTION OF ADVERTISING RESTRICTED.
   No person shall peddle, distribute or circulate, scatter, deposit or hand
out any advertising card, bill dodge, circular, poster, sheet or paper of any
kind or description upon any public street or walk, in front of or opposite the
lot upon which any church building, public or private school building or any
public or private hall, chapel or residence is situated, or upon any lot, or in
any building in the Town without the express consent of the person lawfully in
charge of the aforementioned structure.
(2005 Code, § 74.02)
§ 113.03 THROWING AWAY ADVERTISEMENTS.
   No person shall throw or place any advertisement, circular, bill or paper
upon the street, alleys, walks or public places in the Town.
(2005 Code, § 74.03)
§ 113.04 CONSENT REQUIRED TO POST ADVERTISEMENT.
   No person shall post, print or paint an advertisement upon any private wall,
door, gate or fence located in the Town without first having obtained the
consent of the owner in writing.
(2005 Code, § 74.04)
§ 113.05 PAINTING ON CURBS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall post, paint or print an advertisement upon any curbstone,
gutter stone, sidewalk or water hydrant in the Town.
(2005 Code, § 74.05)
§ 113.06 POSTERS ON UTILITY POLES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall paint, print, paste, stencil, tack, nail or otherwise mark
upon, or in any manner place upon or affix to any utility pole in the Town, any
work, letter, character, figure, sentence, device, handbill or notice. This
section shall not apply to the posting of any handbill or notice of any public
sale or property by any sheriff, administrator, executor or guardian, or to any
notice required by law to be posted.
(2005 Code, § 74.06)
§ 113.07 SIGNS OVER SIDEWALKS RESTRICTED; SIGN POSTS.
   (A)   No person shall erect any sign extending over the sidewalks or streets
of the Town.
(2005 Code, § 74.07)
   (B)   No person shall support any sign by means of a post or other
supporting structure extending upwards from the streets or walks of the Town.
(2005 Code, § 74.08)
(Ord. 1997-4, passed 10-20-1997)
§ 113.08 PERMIT REQUIRED TO HANG SIGNS; FEE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring to hang, erect or otherwise display any
emblem, advertising material or other display of similar nature over the walks
or streets of the Town shall first obtain a permit to do so.
      (2)   An applicant for a permit to hang or erect a sign shall file an
application with the Clerk-Treasurer. The application shall contain the
following information:
         (a)   Overall dimensions of sign;
         (b)   Height it will be above sidewalk;
         (c)   Number of feet it will extend over sidewalk;
         (d)   Proposed method of installation; and
         (e)   Proof of financial responsibility.
      (3)   Upon the filing of the application, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
notify the Building Commissioner. If the specifications set forth in the
application shall be found satisfactory and consistent with approved practice
and methods, the Building Commissioner shall approve the application by
endorsing his or her approval thereon. The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a permit
upon receipt of the approval of the Building Commissioner.
(2005 Code, § 74.09)
   (B)   The fee for the permit and inspection shall be the same as those
charged for regular building permits.
(2005 Code, § 74.10)
§ 113.09 PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   No permit will be issued unless the applicant shall place on file with the
Clerk-Treasurer a policy of insurance in full force and effect, issued by a
responsible and reputable company authorized to do business in the state,
insuring the owner of the sign against personal liability to the extent of
$50,000 for injury and death to any one person and $100,000 for injury and
death to two or more persons. The policy of insurance must remain in full force
and effect at all times.
(2005 Code, § 74.11)
§ 113.10 INSPECTIONS OF SIGNS.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner or his or her representative shall
periodically inspect each sign or display for which a permit has been issued.
If the installation is found to be unsatisfactory or unsafe, the permit shall
be revoked until such time as the installation is made satisfactory and safe.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner, upon finding the installation of an
overhanging sign or other advertising display to be in an unsafe condition,
shall declare the same to be a nuisance and give notice for the abatement of
the same. Notice shall be given in writing to the owner of the sign that the
same is found to be in an unsafe condition, thereby endangering the safety of
the public, which condition constitutes a nuisance, and the same must be abated
within five days from the receipt of notice.
(2005 Code, § 74.12)
CHAPTER 114: GARAGE AND YARD SALES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Conditions to hold residential sale
   
114.03   Sign posting limitations
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MERCHANDISE. Items normally found in a household.
   RESIDENTIAL. Includes sales of merchandise in a district zoned for
residential purposes from a private residence under whatever name, including,
but not limited to, garage sales, patio sales, rummage sales or porch sales
where the sale is advertised and open to the general public.
(2005 Code, § 68.1)
§ 114.02 CONDITIONS TO BE MET TO HOLD RESIDENTIAL SALE.
   Residential sales shall be permitted in residential districts of the Town;
provided, the following conditions are met.
   (A)   No merchandise other than that normally found in a household may be
sold.
   (B)   The sale shall not exceed three days or parts thereof.
   (C)   Not more than two sales per year shall be allowed at any one location.
   (D)   The sale is restricted to and is the responsibility of the owner or
occupant of the premises on which the sale is being conducted.
   (E)   All signs must be removed within 24 hours after the sale period is
ended.
(2005 Code, § 68.2) (Ord. 2006-4, passed 5-15-2006)
§ 114.03 SIGN POSTING LIMITATIONS.
   No person, firm, corporation nor group or groups of persons shall construct,
attach or otherwise display any yard, garage or residential sale sign, as
hereinabove defined, to any stop sign, street sign, telephone or utility pole
or other permanent installation of any utility company. Further, no sign may be
installed on any private property of any third person without first obtaining
the consent of the owner or occupant of said private property upon which such
sign is constructed, attached or installed.
(2005 Code, § 68.3)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation or group of persons who shall violate any of
the provisions of this chapter or fail to comply therewith or with any of the
requirements thereof shall, for the first violation or non-compliance be guilty
of an infraction and, upon conviction, shall be fined pursuant to the Appendix:
Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances, and each day that such violation or non-
compliance shall be permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense and,
upon conviction of a second or subsequent offense such non-compliance, shall be
fined pursuant to the Appendix: Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 68.4)
CHAPTER 115: TAXICABS
Section
General Provisions
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Taxicab drivers
   
115.03   Taxicab equipment
   
115.04   Taxicab stands
   
115.05   Taxicab rates
Licensing Requirements
   
115.20   Licenses; requirements
   
115.21   License application
   
115.22   Fees
   
115.23   Financial responsibility
   
115.24   License issuance
   
115.25   License limitations
   
115.26   Term of license
   
115.27   Renewal, revocation and transfer of license
   
115.28   Suspension of license
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAXICAB. Any motorized vehicle carrying passengers for hire upon the streets
and public ways of the Town, except those vehicles lawfully authorized to
operate under and by virtue of a certificate or permit duly granted with by the
Public Service Commission of the state or the Interstate Commerce Commission of
the United States.
   TAXICAB SERVICE. The business or occupation of operating taxicabs and
furnishing taxicab service to the public.
(2005 Code, § 44.01)
§ 115.02 TAXICAB DRIVERS.
   (A)   Each driver employed to drive a taxicab, pursuant to a permit issued
under the provisions of this chapter, shall be required to have a public
passenger chauffeur’s license issued pursuant to and under the provisions of
the state, and such license shall be carried with said driver at all times of
operation of the vehicle and be displayed upon demand to any police officer for
inspection.
   (B)   A violation of any of the above provisions or of the provisions of
this code or the traffic laws of the state or the Town shall be a basis for a
revocation of the taxicab license granted hereunder.
(2005 Code, § 44.11)
§ 115.03 TAXICAB EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No taxicab shall be licensed until the vehicle shall have been
inspected by the police and found to be equipped in a safe condition for
transportation of passengers. Said taxicab shall also be clean, of good
appearance and shall be well painted.
   (B)   The police are hereby authorized to inspect all taxicabs from time to
time as often as deemed necessary to see that the terms and conditions of this
code are being complied with, and any taxicab license may be revoked whenever
the vehicle shall be found to be unfit for public patronage. Written reports of
inspection shall be made by the police and filed with the Town Council.
(2005 Code, § 44.13)
§ 115.04 TAXICAB STANDS.
   The Town Council may, pursuant to this code, designate places on the streets
of the Town for use by taxicabs as stands. Taxicab stands so designated shall
be clearly marked or indicated by signs. It shall be unlawful to park any
vehicle other than a taxicab in any such taxicab stand.
(2005 Code, § 44.14)
§ 115.05 TAXICAB RATES.
   (A)   Annually, upon receiving a taxicab license, the licensee shall
immediately publish a schedule of rates in a newspaper of general circulation
in the Town, a certified copy of which rates and publication shall be filed
with the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   That schedule shall be the maximum rates to be charged for the
operation of a taxicab.
(2005 Code, § 44.15)
LICENSING REQUIREMENTS
§ 115.20 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab or a taxicab
service or business within the Town without first having obtained a license
therefore as provided herein; provided, however, that, taxicabs licensed by
other cities or towns may be driven within the Town when said taxicab and
driver are properly licensed by the city or Town or origin.
(2005 Code, § 44.02)
   (B)   (1)   No taxicab service license shall hereafter be issued unless and
until the Town Council shall approve an application thereof. In making its
decision, the Town Council shall take into consideration any and all facts
which are necessary and proper.
      (2)   If the Town Council determines that the public convenience and
necessity requires the proposed taxicab service, it shall issue certificates of
convenience executed by the President of the Town Council and attested to by
the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The certificate shall remain in effect until
cancelled, either by its term or otherwise.
(2005 Code, § 44.03)
§ 115.21 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of any taxicab service license, the applicant
shall file with the Town of Walkerton Police Department any general information
as requested, as well as the specific information as follows:
      (1)   A description of each vehicle to be operated;
      (2)   A certificate of insurance from the insurance company or surety
insuring each taxicab with the expiration date of said policy; and
      (3)   A statement naming and describing the qualifications of each
driver.
   (B)   In addition, the application fee for said license shall be filed prior
to licensing.
(2005 Code, § 44.04)
§ 115.22 FEES.
   The annual license fee for each taxicab service shall be $5. In addition,
there shall be an annual fee of $1 each for each taxicab licensed through the
service. The full annual license fee must be paid in advance to the Town of
Walkerton Police Department and a receipt therefore given to the applicant.
(2005 Code, § 44.05)
§ 115.23 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Before a license for a taxicab shall be issued, the owner shall file
with the Town of Walkerton Police Department a certificate issued by a duly
authorized officer of an insurance company authorized to do business in the
state to the effect that an insurance policy for each specific taxicab has been
issued to the applicant and is in full force and effect, and shall show the
amount, the effective date, the expiration date, and that the premium has been
paid. A true copy of the policy shall also be filed. This policy shall be kept
in effect during the life of the license and failure to do so shall serve to
automatically revoke any such license.
   (B)   Such policy shall provide coverage for liability of a minimum of
$100,000 for injury or death of any one person and subject to the same limit
per person, a minimum liability of $300,000 for injury or death of any number
of persons in any one accident and a minimum liability of $50,000 for property
damage in any one accident.
(2005 Code, § 44.06)
§ 115.24 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   For each taxicab permit issued under this chapter, the Chief of Police or
his or her designee shall issue one taxicab license or authorization to be
publicly exhibited in or upon the said vehicle.
(2005 Code, § 44.07)
§ 115.25 LICENSE LIMITATIONS.
   There shall be no limitation on the number of taxicab services or the number
of taxicabs.
(2005 Code, § 44.08)
§ 115.26 TERM OF LICENSE.
   Taxicab permits issued under this chapter shall be operative for the period
January 1 to December 31 of each calendar year unless revoked.
(2005 Code, § 44.09)
§ 115.27 RENEWAL, REVOCATION AND TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Taxicab permits shall be renewed upon the payment of the prescribed
fees by the person holding the taxicab permits. The Town Council shall have the
power to revoke and terminate, or refuse to renew, any taxicab permit if, after
notice to the holder and a hearing, said Town Council shall find that the
holder of said permit is not rendering or cannot render efficient service, or
is in violation of any other provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a taxicab permit to sell,
transfer, assign or set over said permit to another person or persons.
(2005 Code, § 44.10)
§ 115.28 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any taxicab license granted hereunder shall be suspended if such
taxicab shall, with the knowledge and consent of the owner, be used in
violation of any law or provision of this chapter.
   (B)   No owner or taxicab operator shall permit any unlicensed driver or any
driver whose license has been suspended or revoked to operate any taxicab
within the Town or as provided for in this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 44.12)
CHAPTER 116: SOLICITORS; ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND PEDDLERS
Section
Charitable Solicitors
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Charitable Solicitations Commission
   
116.03   Permit required
   
116.04   Application
   
116.05   Fees
   
116.06   Investigation
   
116.07   Standards
   
116.08   Cost of solicitations; limitations
   
116.09   Cost of promotion; limitations
   
116.10   Misrepresentation
   
116.11   Books and records
   
116.12   Reports required
   
116.13   Registration and permit; form
   
116.14   Notice of intent
   
116.15   Requirement of written receipt
   
116.16   Hearings
   
116.17   Appeal and review
   
116.18   Permit revocation
Itinerant Merchants, Peddlers and Solicitors
   
116.30   Definitions
   
116.31   Orders by solicitors
   
116.32   License required
   
116.33   Exceptions and exemptions
   
116.34   Use of streets
   
116.35   License revocation; procedure
   
116.36   License expiration
 
   
116.99   Penalty
CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE. Includes the words patriotic, philanthropic, social service,
welfare, benevolent, educational, civic or fraternal, either actual or
purported.
   COMMISSION. The Charitable Solicitations Commission of the Town.
   CONTRIBUTIONS. Includes the words alms, food, clothing, money, property,
subscription or pledge, and also donations under the guise of loans of money or
property.
   COST OF PROMOTION. In connection with a charitable solicitation, the
reasonable cost of acquiring goods or merchandise or an entertainment event
when such is used in connection with the solicitation, but does not include the
cost of selling the goods or admissions or the cost of bona fide educational
materials. No cost included in the definition of “cost of solicitation” shall
be considered a COST OF PROMOTION.
   COST OF SOLICITATION. All costs of whatever nature incurred in raising the
funds solicited except bona fide educational material in such instances where
the solicitation plan involves the promotion or sale of merchandise or an
entertainment event; the cost of such merchandise or entertainment shall not be
considered as part of the cost of solicitation. Compensation in whatever form
paid to a “professional promoter or professional solicitor” is part of the COST
OF SOLICITATION.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, society, organization or league, and includes any trustee,
receiver, assignee, agent or other representative thereof.
   POLITICAL PARTIES. As defined by state law, their subdivisions and their
bona fide candidates for public office are specifically exempted from and shall
not be subject to the provisions of this subchapter, as the intent of the
subchapter is to regulate the solicitation of charitable contributions.
   PROFESSIONAL PROMOTER. A person who for compensation plans, promotes,
conducts, manages or carries on or attempts to plan, promote, conduct, manage
or carry on any drive or campaign for the purpose of solicitation contributions
for or on behalf of any charitable person or engages in the business of
soliciting contributions for charitable purposes. A bona fide officer or
regular employee of a charitable person shall not be deemed a PROFESSIONAL
PROMOTER by reason of his or her participation in charitable solicitations made
by or on behalf of his or her employer.
   PROFESSIONAL SOLICITOR. Any person other than a professional promoter who is
employed or retained for compensation to make solicitations in connection with
a charitable solicitation or solicitations. A bona fide officer or regular
employee of a charitable person shall not be deemed a PROFESSIONAL SOLICITOR by
reason of his or her participation in charitable solicitations made by or on
behalf of his or her employer.
   RELIGIOUS, RELIGION or CHURCH. Any activity directly involving the
promulgation or observance of any system of worship or to the building or
maintenance of places of worship. The words RELIGIOUS and RELIGION or CHURCH,
as used herein, do not include “charitable” activities as defined herein, even
though carried on or sponsored by a religious organization.
   SOLICIT and SOLICITATION. The request, directly or indirectly, of money,
credit, property, financial assistance or other thing of value on the plea or
representation that such money, credit, property, financial assistance or other
thing of value will be used for a charitable purpose as those purposes are
defined in this section. These words shall also mean and include, but not be
limited to, the following methods of securing such money, credit, property,
financial assistance or other thing of value:
      (1)   Any oral or written request;
      (2)   The making of any announcement to the local press or by telephone
concerning a local appeal or campaign to which the public is requested to make
a contribution for any charitable purpose connected therewith;
      (3)   The distribution, circulation, posting or publishing of any
handbill, written advertisement or other local publications; and/or
      (4)   The sale of, or the offer or attempt to sell any advertisement,
advertising space, book, card, chance, coupon, device, membership, merchandise,
subscription, ticket or other thing.
   SOLICITATION. Deemed to have taken place when the request is made, whether
or not the person making the same receives any contribution referred to in this
section.
(2005 Code, § 43.01)
§ 116.02 CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Charitable Solicitations Commission of the
Town, which Commission shall be responsible for the regulation of charitable
solicitations.
   (B)   Said Commission shall be composed of the Town Council, and terms on
the Commission shall be the same as terms on the Town Council.
(2005 Code, § 43.02)
§ 116.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall solicit charitable contributions in the Town without first
having registered with and obtained a permit from the Town Charitable
Solicitation Commission or its designee.
(2005 Code, § 43.03)
§ 116.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to register and obtain a permit as above required
shall make application to the Commission. Such application shall be sworn to or
affirmed and filed with the Commission not less than 60 days prior to the time
at which the permit applied for shall become effective; provided, however,
that, the Commission may, for good cause shown, allow the filing of an
application less than 60 days prior to the effective date of the registration
and permit applied for.
   (B)   The application herein required shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address or principal office of the person applying for
the permit;
      (2)   If the applicant is not an individual, the names and addresses of
the applicant’s principal officers and executives and a copy of the resolution,
if any, authorizing such solicitation, certified to as a true and correct copy
of the original by the officer having charge of the applicant’s records;
      (3)   The purpose for which solicitation is to be made, the total amount
of funds proposed to be raised thereby, and the use or disposition to be made
of any receipts therefrom;
      (4)   A specific statement, supported by facts, and figure, if any,
showing the need for the contributions to be solicited;
      (5)   The names and addresses of the person or persons by whom the
receipts of such solicitations will be disbursed;
      (6)   The name and address of the person or persons who will be in direct
charge of conducting the solicitation, and the names of all fundraisers
connected or to be connected with the proposed solicitation if said fundraisers
shall receive any paid compensation for their services;
      (7)   An outline of the method or methods to be used in conducting the
solicitation;
      (8)   The time when such solicitation will be made, giving the preferred
dates and the hour of day for the commencement and termination of such
solicitation;
      (9)   The estimated cost of the solicitation;
      (10)   The amount of any wages, fees, commissions, expenses or emoluments
to be expended or paid to any person in connection with such solicitations, and
the names and addresses of all such persons. The Commission may elect not to
require such information as to regular staff or charitable organizations
maintaining a permanent office in said Town;
      (11)   A financial statement for the past preceding fiscal year of any
funds collected for charitable purposes by the applicant, said statement giving
the amount of money so raised, together with the cost of raising it, and final
distribution thereof;
      (12)   A full statement of the character and extent of the charitable
work being done or to be done by the applicant, and showing how much thereof is
being done or to be done in the Town;
      (13)   A statement to the effect that if registration and a permit is
granted, it will not be used or represented in any way as an endorsement by the
Town or by any department or officer thereof; and
      (14)   Such other information as may be reasonably required by the
Commission in order for it to determine the kind, character and method of the
proposed solicitation and whether such solicitation is in the interest of, and
not inimical to, the safety, convenience or welfare of the residents of the
Town.
   (C)   If, while any application is pending, or during the term of any permit
granted thereof, there is any substantial change in fact, policy or method that
would materially alter the information given in the application, the applicant
shall notify the Commission in writing thereof within 72 hours after such
change. Should the applicant fail to so notify the Commission, any permit
issued to said applicant prior thereto shall stand suspended until a hearing is
had pursuant to §
116.16 of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 43.04)
§ 116.05 FEES.
   Each person registered for each applicant, at the time of application for
registration and permit shall pay to the Town Clerk-Treasurer a fee fixed by
the Commission which shall be as listed in the Fee Schedule in Ch. 35 of this
code of ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 43.05)
§ 116.06 INVESTIGATION.
   The Commission shall examine all applications filed under §
116.04 of this chapter and shall make, or cause to be made, such further
investigation of the application and the applicant as the Commission shall deem
necessary in order for it to perform its duties under this subchapter. Upon
request by the Commission, the applicant shall make available for inspection by
the Commission, or any person designated in writing by the Commission as its
representative for such purpose, all of the applicant’s books, records and
papers at any reasonable time before the application is granted, during the
time a permit is in effect, or after a permit has expired.
(2005 Code, § 43.06)
§ 116.07 STANDARDS.
   (A)   The Commission shall grant the registration and permit provided for in
§
116.04 of this chapter whenever it finds or reasonably believes:
      (1)   All of the statements made in the application are true;
      (2)   The applicant, or if the applicant is not an individual person,
that its managing officers or managing agents be of good character and
reputation for honesty and integrity;
      (3)   The local control and supervision of the solicitation will be under
local, responsible and reliable persons;
      (4)   The applicant is not engaged in any fraudulent transaction or
enterprise;
      (5)   The solicitation will not be a fraud on the public;
      (6)   The solicitation is promoted solely by a desire to finance the
charitable cause described in the application, and will not be conducted
primarily for private profit;
      (7)   The cost of solicitation and/or promotion shall be reasonable and
shall not exceed a reasonable portion of the receipts to be realized from the
solicitation. Whenever any professional promoters or professional solicitors
are employed in connection with the solicitation a copy of the contract between
the applicant and such professional promoters or professional solicitors must
be submitted to the Commission who may determine whether said contract is in
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter; and
      (8)   The kind, character and method of the proposed solicitation, are
such that the solicitation will be in the interests of and not inimical to the
safety, convenience or welfare of the residents of the said Town.
   (B)   The Commission shall file with its Secretary, for public inspection, a
written statement of its findings of fact and its decision upon each
application. If the application is denied, the Commission shall notify the
applicant by certified mail, at the address given in the application, stating
the reasons therefore.
(2005 Code, § 43.07)
§ 116.08 COST OF SOLICITATIONS; LIMITATIONS.
   The cost of solicitation for a charitable solicitation shall not exceed a
reasonable portion of the gross amount realized from such solicitation after
deduction of the cost of promotion. Cost of solicitation in excess of 25% of
the gross amount realized from the solicitation after the deduction of cost of
promotion shall establish a prima facie case that the cost of solicitation is
unreasonable.
(2005 Code, § 43.08)
§ 116.09 COST OF PROMOTION; LIMITATIONS.
   The cost of promotion for a charitable solicitation shall not exceed a
reasonable portion of the gross amount realized from all events held and
publications, debts and services sold, given away or used as prizes in
connection with the solicitation. Cost of promotion in excess of 75% of the
gross amount realized from such events, publications, goods and services shall
establish a prima facie case that the cost of promotion is unreasonable.
(2005 Code, § 43.09)
§ 116.10 MISREPRESENTATION.
   (A)   No person shall directly or indirectly solicit contributions for any
purpose by misrepresentation of his or her name, occupation, financial
condition, social position, residence or principal place of business, and no
person shall make or cause to be fraud in connection with any solicitation of
any contribution for any purpose in the Town, or in any application or report
filed under this subchapter.
   (B)   No charitable organization or professional fundraiser soliciting
contributions shall use a name, symbol or statement so closely related or
similar to that used by another charitable organization or governmental agency
that the use thereof would tend to confuse or mislead the public.
   (C)   No charitable organization or professional fundraiser shall solicit
funds by the use of statements or materials that would indicate that such funds
were being raised for an organization or agency from which such organization or
agency explicit permission for the raising of such funds has not been received
in accordance with other provisions of this code of ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 43.10)
§ 116.11 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   No person shall solicit any contributions for any charitable purpose without
maintaining a system of accounting whereby all donations to it and all
disbursements by it are entered upon the official books or records of such
person’s treasurer or other financial officer.
(2005 Code, § 43.11)
§ 116.12 REPORTS REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of all persons registered and issued permits under this
subchapter to furnish to the Commission within 60 days after the solicitation
has been completed, a report and financial statement showing the amount raised
by the solicitation, the amount expended in collecting such funds, including a
report of the wages, fees, commissions and expenses, paid to any person in
connection with such solicitation, and the disposition of the balance of the
funds collected by the solicitation. In the case of charitable organizations
maintaining a permanent office in the Town, the wages of regular full-time
staff employees may be entered as a total figure. The entire report filed by
said person shall be available for public inspection. The permit holder shall
make available to the Commission, or to any person designated in writing by the
Commission as its representative for such purpose, all books, records and
papers whereby the accuracy of such report may be verified.
(2005 Code, § 43.12)
§ 116.13 REGISTRATION AND PERMIT; FORM.
   (A)   Registrations and permits issued under this subchapter shall bear the
name and address of the person to whom the permit is issued, the serial number
of the permit, the date issued, the dates within which the permit holder may
solicit and a statement that the permit does not constitute an endorsement by
the Town or by any of its departments, officers or employees of the purpose or
of the persons conducting this solicitation. All permits must be signed by the
Chairperson of the Commission and the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town. Each
solicitor of the charitable organization will be provided with an information
card or similar identification signed by the person having control and
supervision of the solicitation. Said card or identification shall carry on its
face the name and address of the person to whom the permit was issued, the
number of the permit, the dates during which the permit holder may solicit and
shall identify by name the individual holder of said card or identification.
Any individual soliciting without said card or identification shall be deemed
to be in violation of this subchapter and said card or identification shall be
provided for said individual solicitor by and at the expense of the permit
holder.
   (B)   Any permit issued by the Commission under this subchapter shall not be
transferable or assignable.
 
TOWN OF WALKERTON CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS REGISTRATION AND PERMIT
 
Permit No.:                                                                        Date:                                                               
Issued to:                                                                                                                                                   
Address:                                                                                                                                                    
Date of Solicitation:                                                                                                                                     
This permit does not constitute an endorsement by the Town of Walkerton or by any of its departments, officers or employees of the purpose or of the persons conducting this solicitation.
 
Approved by:                                                                                                 
Town Council of the Town of Walkerton
 
 
(2005 Code, § 43.13)
§ 116.14 NOTICE OF INTENT.
   (A)   Any person, except churches and their directly connected agencies,
desiring to conduct a charitable solicitation or on whose behalf a charitable
solicitation is to be conducted shall file, at least 60 days prior to the
commencement thereof, with the Commission, a notice of intent containing the
following information:
      (1)   The proposed use of the net proceeds of the solicitation under the
general headings required for reports under division (A)(5) below;
      (2)   The manner in which the solicitation shall be conducted, and an
estimate of the cost of solicitation and the cost of promotion, if any, and of
the net proceeds expected for the charitable purpose;
      (3)   If a professional promoter or any professional solicitor are to be
employed, a copy of the contract of each;
      (4)   A certified copy of the resolution or other action authorizing the
solicitation; and
      (5)   A report of all the receipts of the person during his or her
preceding fiscal year or all of its receipts from solicitations during the most
recent year in which a charitable solicitation was conducted by or on behalf of
such charitable person.
         (a)   Such report shall show the gross amount raised by solicitation,
during the period covered, what portion thereof, if any, is attributable to
promotional activities, the cost of promotion, the cost of solicitation and the
amounts, if any, paid to each professional promoter and professional solicitor.
         (b)   The report shall also show what portion of the proceeds, if any,
was allocated for local use and what portion, if any, was allocated to a
national organization.
   (B)   The proportions allocated respectively to local use or to a national
organization shall each be broken down in the report under the following
categories insofar as they are applicable or among such other categories as may
be approved by the Commission:
      (1)   Agency administration;
      (2)   Information and public education activities;
      (3)   Social services;
      (4)   Hospital care;
      (5)   Educational institutions;
      (6)   Research;
      (7)   Other civic or philanthropic purposes; and
      (8)   Capital improvements.
   (C)   The Commission may, in its discretion, waive the filing of such
statements as are duplicated substantially by reports already on file pursuant
to this section or to any other section of this subchapter.
(2005 Code, § 43.14)
§ 116.15 REQUIREMENT OF WRITTEN RECEIPT.
   Any person receiving money or any thing having a value of $1 or more from
any contributor under a solicitation made pursuant to a permit granted under
this subchapter shall give to the contributor, upon request, a written receipt
signed by the solicitor showing plainly the name and permit number of the
person under whose permit the solicitation is conducted, the date and the
amount received; provided, however, that, this section shall not apply to any
contributions collected by means of a closed box or receptacle used in
solicitation with the written approval of the Commission, where it is
impractical to determine the amount of such contributions.
(2005 Code, § 43.15)
§ 116.16 HEARINGS.
   (A)   If the Commission denies an application for registration and permit it
shall notify the applicant of its decision and the grounds therefor by
certified mail, return receipt requested, and within five days after the
receipt of such notification, the applicant may file a written request for
public hearing on the application, together with exceptions to the grounds upon
which the Commission based its denial of the application. Upon the filing of
such request, the Commission shall fix a time and place for the hearing, which
shall be within 15 days after the request is filed, and shall notify the
applicant thereof. At the hearing, the applicant may present evidence in
support of his or her application and exceptions. Any interested person may be
allowed to participate in the hearing to present evidence in opposition to the
application and exceptions. Within ten days after the conclusion of the
hearing, the Commission shall render a written report either granting or
denying the application and shall state grounds upon which the decision is
based.
   (B)   A copy of said report shall be served by certified mail, return
receipt requested, upon the applicant. Said report shall constitute a public
record.
(2005 Code, § 43.16)
§ 116.17 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   Any person claiming to be prejudiced by action of the Commission under this
subchapter may appeal to the St. Joseph County Circuit or Superior Court to
reverse such action, but such appeal shall be limited to the claim that the
Commission has violated the appellants constitutional rights, has acted in
excess of its jurisdiction or has acted unreasonably, arbitrarily and beyond
the limits of its reasonable discretion. The members of the Commission shall
not be liable for damages or for any claim against them as individuals because
of action taken by them in performance of their duties under this subchapter.
This subchapter shall be liberally construed to achieve its purpose.
(2005 Code, § 43.17)
§ 116.18 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever it shall be shown or whenever the Commission has reason
to believe that any person registered under this subchapter has violated any of
the provisions thereof, or that any promoter, agent or solicitor of a permit
holder has misrepresented the purpose of the solicitation, the Commission shall
immediately suspend the permit and give the permit holder written notice in
person or by certified mail, return receipt requested, of the suspension and of
a hearing to be held within seven days of such suspension to determine whether
or not the permit should be revoked.
      (2)   This notice must contain a statement of the facts upon which the
Commission has acted in suspending the permit.
      (3)   At the hearing, the permit holder, and any other interested
persons, shall have the right to present evidence as to the facts upon which
the Commission based the suspension of the permit and any other facts which may
aid the Commission in determining whether this subchapter has been violated and
whether the purpose of the solicitation has been misrepresented.
      (4)   If, after such hearing, the Commission finds that the subchapter
has been violated or the purpose of the solicitation has been misrepresented,
it shall within two days after the hearing file in its office for public
inspection and send to the permit holder by registered mail, or serve him or
her in any manner provided by general law for the service of notices, a written
statement of the facts upon which it bases such a finding and shall immediately
revoke the permit.
      (5)   If, after the hearing, the Commission finds that this subchapter
has not been violated and the purpose of the solicitation has not been
misrepresented, it shall, within two days after the hearing give to the permit
holder a written statement canceling the suspension of the permit and stating
that no violation or misrepresentation was found to have been committed.
   (B)   (1)   In all cases where a suspension of the permit occurs, the Chief
of Police shall be notified forthwith by the Commission of the suspension or
revocation of any permit issued under this subchapter.
      (2)   In like manner, the Commission shall immediately notify the Chief
of Police, subsequent to the hearing provided for hereinabove of the decision
of the Commission.
(2005 Code, § 43.18)
ITINERANT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
§ 116.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, consignee, employee
or otherwise, and whether a resident of the Town or not, who engages in a
temporary business of making or selling and delivering goods, wares and
merchandise within the Town, and who, in furtherance of such purposes, hires,
leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle or any street,
alley or any other place within the Town, for the exhibition and sale of any
goods, wares or merchandise, either privately or at public auction.
   PEDDLER. Any person, whether a Town resident or not, who travels by foot,
wagon, motorized vehicle or any other type of conveyance, from place to place,
carrying, conveying or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, foods or
provisions, offering and exposing the same for sale, or making sales and
delivering articles to purchasers, or who, without traveling from place to
place shall sell or offer the same for sale from any type of vehicle of
conveyance; provided, however, that, such does not apply to the sale of farm
products cultivated and raised in the state by Indiana farmers.
   SOLICITOR. Any individual, whether a Town resident or not, traveling by
foot, wagon, motorized vehicle or any other type of conveyance, from place to
place, taking or attempting to take orders for the sale of goods, wares and
merchandise, or personal property of any nature whatsoever, for future
delivery; or for services to be furnished or performed in the future, whether
or not such individual has a sample of the subject of such sale or whether he
or she is collecting advance payments on such sales or not; provided that, such
definition shall include any person who, for himself, herself or for another
person, hires, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle or any
street, alley or any other place within the Town for the purpose of exhibiting
samples and taking orders for future delivery.
(2005 Code, § 41.01)
§ 116.31 ORDERS BY SOLICITORS.
   All orders taken by solicitors within the Town shall be in writing, in
duplicate, stating the terms thereof and the amount paid in advance, and one
copy of such order shall be given to the purchaser.
(2005 Code, § 41.02)
§ 116.32 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   All itinerant merchants, solicitors and peddlers are required to
obtain a license from the office of the Clerk-Treasurer prior to conducting
business. The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a complete record in his or her office
of all licenses issued.
      (1)   Application.
         (a)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to engage in the
business of itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor, as herein defined, shall
make an application in writing to the Clerk- Treasurer of the Town at least ten
days before said applicant shall be authorized to begin business. Such
application shall state the name and residence of the applicant, the company or
firm which he or she represents, the place where such business is to be
conducted, the kind of goods to be sold and the length of time for which a
license is desired.
         (b)   The person, firm or corporation filing said application must pay
an application fee as listed in the Fee Schedule in Ch. 35 of this code of
ordinances at the time of application. The Clerk- Treasurer shall then refer
the application to the Town of Walkerton Police Department for review and
recommendation.
         (c)   The Town of Walkerton Police Department shall conduct an
investigation of each applicant and make a recommendation to the Clerk-
Treasurer as to whether the application should be granted. In making its
recommendation, the Town of Walkerton Police Department shall consider the
criminal history of the applicant, if any, and the likelihood that granting the
application will endanger the health, safety or welfare of the public. A
written report of the investigation and a copy of the traffic and police record
of the applicant, if any, and the recommendation of the Town of Walkerton
Police Department, shall be attached to the application for the consideration
of the Clerk-Treasurer.
         (d)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall consider the recommendation of the
Town of Walkerton Police Department, and all information provided with or in
support of the application in determining whether the application should be
granted.
         (e)   The hours of operation of a person engaging in the business of
itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall be between the hours of 8:00
a.m. as the beginning time and 6:00 p.m. as the ending time (prevailing Town
time), Monday through Friday only.
      (2)   Fee. The license fee per year for an itinerant merchant, peddler or
solicitor shall be as listed in the Fee Schedule in Ch. 35 of this code of
ordinances and shall be payable in advance for each such license.
      (3)   Term. No license shall be issued for a period of longer than one
year.
      (4)   Exhibition. All peddlers, solicitors and itinerant merchants shall
be required to exhibit their licenses at the request of any citizen.
(2005 Code, § 41.03)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor
to perform any of his or her defined business within the Town without first
having obtained a license as herein provided. The penalty for failing to obtain
a license as herein required is set out pursuant to the Appendix: Fines and
Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 41.09)
APPLICATION FOR ITINERANT MERCHANTS, SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
 
1.   Name of applicant                                                                                                                                 
   Address                                                                                                                                   
2.   Name of company                                                                                                                                 
   Address                                                                                                                                                
3.   Place where business will be conducted                                                                                                   
4.   Kinds of goods to be sold                                                                                                                       
5.   Length of time license required (not to exceed one year)                                                                            
Fee: See Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances
Date of application                                                                                                                                        
Signature of applicant                                                                                                                                    
License # of car or cars                                                                                                                                 
Description of car                                                                                                                                         
Names of other people soliciting                                                                                                                     
Date of birth of applicant                                                                                                                               
Social Security # of applicant                                                                                                                          
Social Security of additional applicants                                                                                                             
 
(Ord. 2006-5, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 116.33 EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions hereof shall not apply to sales by producers of farm or dairy
products. Any person exempt by the laws of the state from the payment of the
license fee shall, before beginning such business, present to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer his or her credentials showing that he or she is entitled to such
exemption and, upon the acceptance and approval thereof, he or she shall then
receive a certificate from the Clerk-Treasurer authorizing him or her to engage
in the business of itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor subject to the
terms of his or her license and the other applicable provisions hereof.
(2005 Code, § 41.04)
§ 116.34 USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   No itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor, nor any person in his or
her behalf, shall have any exclusive right to any location in the public
streets, nor shall any be permitted a stationary location, nor shall he or she
be permitted to operate in any congested area where his or her operations might
impede or inconvenience the public.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the judgment of the Chief of
Police, exercised in good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to whether the
area is congested or the public impeded or inconvenienced.
(2005 Code, § 41.05)
§ 116.35 LICENSE REVOCATION; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Licenses issued under the provisions of this subchapter may be revoked
by the President of the Town Council after notice and hearing for any of the
following causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
license application;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in the course of
carrying on his business as an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor;
      (3)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      (4)   Conducting the business of peddling or soliciting in an unlawful
manner as to constitute a breach of the peace, or to constitute a menace to the
health, safety or general welfare of the public; and/or
      (5)   Any other violation of this subchapter.
(2005 Code, § 41.06)
   (B)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and
place of hearing. The Chief of Police may, at any time, suspend any license
pending hearing on revocation upon an allegation and information that such
license is believed to have been violated, or has been violated, or is guilty
of any of the causes upon which a revocation of such license could be
predicated hereunder.
(2005 Code, § 41.07)
§ 116.36 LICENSE EXPIRATION.
   All licenses issued under this subchapter shall expire at the time
stipulated on the license or upon revocation.
(2005 Code, § 41.08)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99  of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, as defined, or any agent, servant, employee or officer
thereof, violating any of the provisions of §§
116.01 through
116.18 of this chapter, or who aids or abets in the procuring of a violation of
any provision, part or portion of §§
116.01 through
116.18 of this chapter, or who files or causes to be filed an application for a
permit which contains false or fraudulent statements of fact, shall be deemed
guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined pursuant
to the Appendix: Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances. Each violation shall be deemed a separate
offense, and each act in violation of §§
116.01 through
116.18 of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such.
(2005 Code, § 43.19)
CHAPTER 117: JUNK DEALERS
Section
   
117.01   Definition
   
117.02   Junk yard prohibited
§ 117.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK YARDS. Any real estate or building used by a junk dealer for the sale,
purchase, maintenance or storage of personal property of or for a junk dealer.
(2005 Code, § 40.01)
§ 117.02 JUNK YARD PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or operate the business of a
junk yard within the Town limits.
(2005 Code, § 40.02)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   NOISE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: NOISE REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   General prohibitions
   
130.03   Specific restrictions
   
130.04   Motor vehicles
   
130.05   Stationary source
   
130.06   Exemptions
   
130.07   Permits; guidelines
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The sound pressure level of a sound measured
through an A-weighing filter network. The level read is designated DB(A) or
DBA.
      COMMERCIAL ZONE. Zones C-1, C-2 and C-3, as defined in Ch. 156 of this
code of ordinances.
      DECIBEL. The unit used for comparing the sound pressure level of a sound
to the sound pressure level of a reference sound having a sound pressure of 20
micropascals.
      FREQUENCY. The number of periodic oscillations, vibrations or waves per
unit time (usually one second).
      HERTZ (HZ). The unit used for measuring the frequency of a sound. The
number of HERTZ is the number of cycles per second of a periodic sound pressure
wave.
      INDUSTRIAL ZONE. Zones I-1 and 1-2, as defined in Ch. 156 of this code of
ordinances.
      LIGHT MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motorized vehicle with gross vehicular weight
less than 8,000 pounds, including automobiles, vans, motorcycles, motor-driven
cycles, motor scooters, dune buggies, snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, go-
karts, mini-bikes, trail bikes and light trucks.
      MODIFIED EXHAUST SYSTEMS. Any exhaust system in which the original noise
abatement devices have been removed, altered or replaced to produce more noise.
      NOISE. Any sound subject to complaint.
      OCTAVE BANK. A portion of the entire sound frequency spectrum contained
between two frequencies A and B, such that A=2B.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind.
      PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Any noise for which the information content is
unambiguously communicated to the listener, including understandable spoken
speech, comprehension of whether a voice is raised (agitated) or normal or
comprehensible musical rhythms.
      RESIDENTIAL ZONE. Zones R-1, R-2 and R-3, as defined in Ch. 156 of this
code of ordinances.
      SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument designed to measure sound pressure
levels.
      SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL.
         (a)   Twenty times the logarithm (base 10) of the ratio of the
measured sound pressure to a reference pressure of 20 micropascals.
         (b)   The SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL is expressed in decibels (DB).
               SPL = 20 LOG      SOUND PRESSURE A
                  10         SOUND PRESSURE B
      Sound pressure A = measured sound pressure
      Sound pressure B = reference sound pressure (20 micropascals)
   (B)   All other terminology used in this chapter which is not specifically
defined shall be in conformance with applicable publications of the American
National Standards Institute (ANSI) or its successor body.
(2005 Code, § 73.01)
§ 130.02 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall make, or cause to be made, any noise that unreasonably
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace,
safety or welfare of any person or precludes his or her enjoyment of property
or affects his or her property’s value. This general prohibition is not limited
by the specific restrictions listed in §§
130.03,
130.04 and
130.05 of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 73.02)
§ 130.03 SPECIFIC RESTRICTIONS.
   The following specific acts are declared to be unlawful:
   (A)   Radios, television sets, musical instruments, tape or record players,
amplifies and similar devices. Operating or permitting the use or operation of
any such devices between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner
as to be plainly audible across property boundaries or through partitions
common to two or more persons within a building;
   (B)   Domestic power tools. Operating or permitting the use or operation of
any mechanically powered saw, drill, sander, grinder, lawn or garden tools,
lawnmower, snow blower or similar device used outdoors between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. in such a manner that will disturb or annoy any
reasonable person nearby;
   (C)   Construction. Operating or permitting the operation of any tools or
equipment in construction, drilling or demolition between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner that will disturb or annoy any reasonable
person nearby;
   (D)   Horns and signaling devices. Operating a horn or other audible
signaling device on any motor vehicle, except in an emergency or when required
by law;
   (E)   Participation in noisy parties or gatherings. Participation in any
party or gathering between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. giving rise to
noise that is plainly audible across property boundaries or between partitions
common to two or more persons within a building;
   (F)   Animals. Harboring or keeping any animal which is causing frequent or
long-continued noise shall disturb or annoy any reasonable person nearby;
   (G)   Schools, courts, churches, hospitals. The creation of any excessive
noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or
court while the same are in use, or adjacent to any hospital, which reasonably
interferes with the workings of such institution, or which disturbs or unduly
annoys patients in the hospital; provided, conspicuous signs are displayed in
or near such streets indicating that the same is a school, hospital or court
street;
   (H)   Yelling, shouting and the like. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling
or singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of 10:00 p.m
and 7:00 a.m. or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet,
comfort or repose of persons in any office, or in any dwelling, hotel or other
type of residence, or of any persons in the vicinity; and
   (I)   Loud speakers, amplifiers and advertising. The using, operating or
permitting to be played, used or operated, any radio, receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph, loud speaker, sound amplifier or other machine or
device for the producing of sound which is cast upon the public streets for the
purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the public, or
attracting the attention of a singular person.
(2005 Code, § 73.03)
§ 130.04 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause the sound pressure level
of the noise emitted during the operation of a light motor vehicle to exceed 80
DBA in speed zones of 35 mph or less within the corporate limits of the Town.
The sound pressure level measurement shall be made at a distance of not less
than 15 feet from the edge of the lane of travel of the violator.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a light motor vehicle
which causes excessive noise as a result of a defective or modified exhaust
system or as a result of any unnecessary rapid acceleration, de-acceleration,
engine revving or tire squealing.
(2005 Code, § 73.04)
§ 130.05 STATIONARY SOURCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause the sound pressure level
to exceed the limits below at any point on the boundary of the property where
the person is located.
      (1)   If the person is located within a residential zone: 55 DBA between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. The octave-band breakdowns of the DBA
limits used in this section shall be:
Octave-Bank Center Frequency (HZ) Maximum Boundary SPL (DB)
Octave-Bank Center Frequency (HZ) Maximum Boundary SPL (DB)
31.5                              72
63                                71
125                               65
250                               57
500                               51
1,000                             45
2,000                             39
4,000                             34
8,000                             32
 
      (2)   If the person is located within a commercial zone: 64 DBA at all
times. The octave-band breakdowns of the DBA limits used in this section shall
be:
Octave-Bank Center Frequency (HZ) Maximum Boundary SPL (DB)
Octave-Bank Center Frequency (HZ) Maximum Boundary SPL (DB)
31.5                              79
63                                71
125                               73
250                               67
500                               61
1,000                             55
2,000                             50
4,000                             46
8,000                             43
 
      (3)   If the person is located within an industrial zone: 66 DBA at all
times. The octave-band breakdowns of the DBA limits used in this section shall
be:
Octave-Bank Center Frequency (HZ) Maximum Boundary SPL (DB)
Octave-Bank Center Frequency (HZ) Maximum Boundary SPL (DB)
31.5                              80
63                                79
125                               74
250                               69
500                               63
1,000                             57
2,000                             52
4,000                             48
8,000                             45
 
   (B)   If the property boundary lies between any two zones, the lower limit
shall apply regardless of the zone in which the person creating the noise is
located.
   (C)   In addition to the above, no person within a residential or a
commercial zone shall make or cause to be made any earthshaking vibrations
perceptible without the aid of instruments beyond the property boundary of the
vibration source. No person within an industrial zone shall make or cause to be
made any earth-shaking vibrations perceptible without the aid of instruments
beyond the zone boundary of the zone in which the vibration source is located.
(2005 Code, § 73.05) (Ord. 2001-3B, passed 1-15-2001)
§ 130.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the emission of sound for
the purpose of alerting persons to the existence of an emergency or the
emission of sound in the performance of work to prevent or alleviate physical
or property damage threatened or caused by a public calamity or other
emergency.
(2005 Code, § 73.06)
§ 130.07 PERMITS; GUIDELINES.
   (A)   (1)   The office of the Town Clerk shall have the authority to issue
permits for:
         (a)   Holidays, celebrations, concerts, parades or other special
events (public or personal); and
         (b)   Persons who demonstrate that bringing the source of sound or
activity for which the permit is sought into compliance with the provisions of
this chapter would constitute an unreasonable hardship on the applicant, the
community or other persons and that the adverse impact on the health, safety
and welfare of persons affected by the permit has been outweighed by such
hardship. Permits may contain any conditions (including a time limit) that are
necessary to limit the adverse impact of the activity.
      (2)   Non-compliance with any condition of the permit shall terminate it
and subject the person holding it to the provisions of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 73.07)
   (B)   The Town Council shall issue guidelines defining the procedures to be
followed in applying for a permit and the specific criteria to be considered in
deciding whether to issue a permit. The Town Council shall also determine fees
for such permits to be issued.
(2005 Code, § 73.08)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found in violation of §
130.04 of this chapter shall have committed a Class B infraction.
   (B)   Any person found in violation of any other provisions of this chapter
shall have committed a Class A infraction.
   (C)   Each day that a violation is in effect shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (D)   During any trial concerning the provisions of this chapter, the court
may admit evidence of the sound pressure level as tested by a sound level meter
which meets or exceeds ANSI specifications for Type II equipment.
   (E)   In addition to any and all other remedies, the Town may at its
discretion, file suit in civil action in any court having jurisdiction thereof
for an injunction against any person to prohibit the violation of the
provisions this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 73.09)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   MANUFACTURED HOUSING
      
153.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
154.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
155.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
156.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Economic Development Plan
   
150.02   Numbering of residences and structures
§ 150.01 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The plan for the area is in all respects approved, ratified and
confirmed by the Town Council.
   (B)   The action of the Plan Commission approving the plan and the
declaratory resolution is, in all respects, approved, ratified and confirmed by
the Town Council.
(Res. 2005-1, passed 5-16-2005)
§ 150.02 NUMBERING OF RESIDENCES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Placement. The owner or occupant of every home, apartment, mobile home
or other residential dwelling and every business place in the Town shall place
the number assigned to his or her lot or part of a lot by the Town in a
conspicuous place on the side of or above the front door of such residential
dwelling or building.
(2005 Code, § 48.01)
   (B)   Size. Such number shall consist of figures not less than three inches
in length and shall be so made or marked as to be distinctly and easily read
from the road.
(2005 Code, § 48.02)
   (C)   Non-compliance. If the owner or occupant of any residential dwelling
or building fails to number the same within 90 days after the effective date of
this section, or within 30 days after the completion of a new residential
dwelling or building, the Town shall place a number upon such residential
dwelling or building in conformance with this section, and recover the cost
from such owner or occupant in a civil action brought in the name of the Town,
or by filing a mechanic’s lien upon the property or in any other manner
provided by law.
(2005 Code, § 48.03)
   (D)   Enforcement. The Building Inspector and the Chief of Police of the
Town shall be charged with the duty of enforcing the terms of this section.
(2005 Code, § 48.04)
(Ord. 1982-9, passed 10-18-1982)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building Code
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Authority
   
151.04   Scope
   
151.05   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
151.06   Application for permits
   
151.07   Permits required
   
151.08   Other ordinances
   
151.09   Permit fees
   
151.10   Review of application
   
151.11   Inspections
   
151.12   Entry
   
151.13   Stop order
   
151.14   Certificate of occupancy
   
151.15   Standards
   
151.16   Violations
   
151.17   Right of appeal
   
151.18   Enforcing an order
Unsafe Buildings
   
151.30   Establishment of law
   
151.31   State law adopted by reference
   
151.32   Public nuisances
   
151.33   Commissioner’s appointment
   
151.34   Authority
   
151.35   Description of unsafe buildings
   
151.36   Substantial property interest
   
151.37   Standards
   
151.38   Violations
 
   
151.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 151.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the “Building Code of the Town of Walkerton, St. Joseph County,
Indiana”, and may be cited as such and will be referred to herein as “this
code” or “this subchapter”.
(2005 Code, § 120.1)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this code is to provide minimum standards for the protection
of life, limb, health, environment, public safety and welfare, and for the
conservation of energy and the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(2005 Code, § 120.2)
§ 151.03 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to
administer and enforce all of the provisions of this code.
   (B)   Whenever, in the building regulations, it is provided that anything
must be done to the approval of or subject to the direction of the Building
Commissioner, this shall be construed to give such officer only the discretion
of determining whether the rules and standards established by ordinance has
been complied with; and no such provision shall be construed as giving any
officer discretionary powers as to what such regulations, codes or standards
shall be, or power to require conditions not prescribed by ordinances or to
enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner.
   (C)   The Town Council or designated Town Council person shall act in place
of the Building Commissioner if no Commissioner is appointed or such
Commissioner has failed to qualify for said position.
(2005 Code, § 120.3)
§ 151.04 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this code apply to the construction, alterations, repair,
use, occupancy, maintenance and additions to all buildings and structures,
other than fences, in the Town.
(2005 Code, § 120.4)
§ 151.05 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The following rules, regulations and codes are hereby adopted by
reference as the rules and regulations governing the construction and
alterations of buildings and structures in the Town.
      (1)   Construction Rules and Regulations, Volume I; 1980 Edition of the
State of Indiana (675 I.A.C. 2) originally published as (3 IR 2148), which
identifies, amends, and incorporates therein the Uniform Building Code, 1979
Edition, or most current edition, and the Uniform Building Code Standards, 1979
Edition, or most current edition.
      (2)   Indiana Fire and Building Safety Standards (675 I.A.C. 13-1),
originally published as (8 IR), under that title, which incorporates by
reference the following National Fire Protection Standards (NFPA):
         (a)   Standard for Low Expansion Foam and Combined Agent Systems 1983,
or most current edition, (NFPA 11-1983). Appendix C of this document is deleted
in its entirety;
         (b)   Standard on Carbon Dioxide Extinguishing Systems 1980, or most
current edition, (NPFP12-1980). Appendix C of this document is deleted in its
entirety;
         (c)   Standard on Halon 1301 Fire Extinguishing Systems 1980, or most
current edition, (NFPA 12A-1980). Appendix B of this document is deleted in its
entirety;
         (d)   Standard on Halon 1211 Fire Extinguishing Systems 1980, or most
current edition, (NFPA 12B-1980). Appendix B of this document is deleted in its
entirety;
         (e)   Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems 1983, or most
current edition, (NFPA 13-1983). Appendix D of this document is deleted in its
entirety;
         (f)   Standard of the Installation of Standpipe and Hose Systems 1983,
or most current edition, (NFPA 14-1983). Appendix B of this document is deleted
in its entirety;
         (g)   Standard for the Installation of Centrifugal Fire Pumps 1983, or
most current edition, (NFPA 20-1983). Appendix C of this document is deleted in
its entirety;
         (h)   Standard of the Installation, Maintenance and Use of Central
Station Signaling Systems 1982, or most current edition, (NFPA 71-1982).
Appendix B of this document is deleted in its entirety;
         (i)   Standard for the Installation, Maintenance and Use of Local
Protective Signaling Systems for Guard’s Tour, Fire Alarm and Supervisory
Service 1979, or most current edition, (NFPA72A-1979). Appendix B of this
document is deleted in its entirety;
         (j)   Standard for the Installation, Maintenance and Use of Auxiliary
Protective Signaling Systems for Fire Alarm Service 1979, or most current
edition, (NFPA72B-1979). Appendix B of this document is deleted in its
entirety;
         (k)   Standard for the Installation, Maintenance and Use of Remote
Station Protective Signaling Systems 1982, or most current edition, (NFPA 72C-
1982). Appendix B of this document is deleted in its entirety;
         (l)   Standard for the Installation, Maintenance and Use of
Proprietary Protective Signaling Systems 1979, or most current edition, (NFPA
72D-1979). Appendix B of this document is deleted in its entirety;
         (m)   Standard on Automatic Fire Detectors 1984, or most current
edition, (NFPA 72E-1984). Chapter 10 of this document is deleted in its
entirety;
         (n)   Standard for the Installation of Equipment for the Removal of
Smoke and Grease-Laden Vapors from Commercial Cooking Equipment 1984, or most
current edition, (NFPA 96-1984). Chapter 10 of this document is deleted in its
entirety;
         (o)   Standard for Spray Application Using Flammable and Combustible
Materials 1982, or most current edition, (NFPA 33-1982). Appendix C of this
document is deleted in its entirety;
         (p)   Standard for Non-Flammable Medical Gas Systems 1983, or most
current edition, (NFPA56F-1983). Appendix D of this document is deleted in its
entirety;
         (q)   Standard for the Prevention of Fires and Explosions in Grain
Elevators and Facilities Handling Bulk Raw Agricultural Commodities 1980, or
most current edition, (NFPA 61B-1980). Appendix E of this document is deleted
in its entirety; and
         (r)   Standard on Incinerators, Waste and Linen Handling Systems and
Equipment 1983, or most current edition, (NFPA 82-1983). Appendix A of this
document is deleted in its entirety.
      (3)   Indiana Electrical Code, 1984 Edition, or most current edition,
(675 I.A.C. 17) originally published as (4 IR 1010), which identifies, amends
and incorporates therein the National Electrical Code, 1984 Edition, or most
current edition.
      (4)   Indiana Plumbing Rules, 1981 Edition, (675 I.A.C. 5) amended by the
1991 Edition, or most current edition, and as may be amended from time to time,
originally published as (4 IR 2398), which identifies, amends and incorporates
therein the Uniform Plumbing Code, 1979 Edition, or most current edition.
      (5)   Indiana Mechanical Rules, 1981 Edition, or most current edition,
(675 I.A.C. 7) amended by the 1992 Edition, or most current edition, and as may
be amended from time to time originally published as (4 IR 1828), which
identifies, amends and incorporates therein the Uniform Mechanical Code, 1979
Edition, or most current edition,.
      (6)   One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code, 1984 Edition, or most current
edition, (675 I.A.C. 3-2), originally published as (7 IR 1870), which
identifies, amends and incorporates therein the Counsel of American Building
Officials One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code, 1983 Edition, or most current
edition;
      (7)   Indiana Energy Conservation Code, 1984 Edition, or most current
edition, (675 I.A.C. 19), originally published as (7 IR 2525), which
identifies, amends and incorporates therein the Model Energy Code, 1983
Edition, or most current edition;
      (8)   Indiana Swimming Pool Rules, Rule 2.1, (410 I.A.C. 6), originally
published as (5 IR 1829) under that title; and
      (9)   Indiana Standard for Permanent Installation of Manufactured Homes,
(675 I.A.C. 3-3), originally published as (6 IR 1729) under that title.
   (B)   Copies of this code, and rules and regulations, and codes adopted
herein by reference are on file as required by law in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer of the Town.
(2005 Code, § 120.5) (Ord. 1997-4, passed 10-20-1997)
§ 151.06 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   No permits shall be issued for the foregoing purposes, unless the
application for such permit is accompanied by a plat or sketch of the proposed
location showing lot boundaries, and by plans and specifications showing the
work to be done. The application for the permit must be completed at the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office of the Town. The parcel number for the proposed location
must be included on the permit application. All plans for building construction
under the authority of the Administrative Building Council of the state must
also be filed with the permit application. No local permit shall be issued
hereunder until a copy of the design release for construction for the State
Building Commissioner is received by the Building Commissioner.
(2005 Code, § 120.6)
§ 151.07 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   A permit shall be obtained before beginning construction, alteration
or repair of any building or structure, the cost of which exceeds $1,000, using
forms furnished by the Building Commissioner, and all fees required by this
code shall be paid to the Town Clerk-Treasurer. A permit issued pursuant to
this subchapter expires one year from date of issuance. All contractors will
supply the Building Commissioner with a $5,000 bond and proof of all insurance
coverage required by the Town.
   (B)   A building permit may be renewed at the expiration of one year upon
payment of one-half of the cost of the original permit fee. The renewal of the
permit shall be for a period of six months. Any second or subsequent renewal of
a permit can only be had upon the specific authority of the Town Building
Commissioner. A second renewal fee shall also be paid. Any renewal of a permit
must comply with all statutes, code chapters, ordinances and other regulations
then in effect at the time of renewal and the regulations in affect at the time
of the issuance of the original permit are no longer valid.
(2005 Code, § 120.7) (Ord. 2001-17, passed - -)
§ 151.08 OTHER ORDINANCES.
   All work done under any permit issued hereunder shall be in full compliance
with all other provisions pertaining thereto and, in addition to the fees for
permits hereinafter provided for, there shall be paid the fees prescribed in
such ordinances.
(2005 Code, § 120.8)
§ 151.09 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Permit fees apply to all new construction and all alterations, repairs
and remodeling.
   (B)   No person, company or corporation shall perform, or cause to be
performed, work pertaining to any building or structure in the incorporated
areas of the Town without obtaining a building permit from the Building
Commissioner at the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (C)   Where a person, company or corporation shall proceed to do any work on
construction without a permit, the permit fees shall be tripled as a penalty.
The payment of such a penalty shall not release the person, company or
corporation in default from any other penalties hereafter provided.
   (D)   (1)   Building permit fees. Refer to the Fee Schedule in Ch. 35 of
this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Electrical permit fees. Refer to the Fee Schedule in Ch. 35 of this
code of ordinances.
         (a)   Electrical permits issued and obtained prior to commencement of
the work for which such permit is required, fees shall be levied. Refer to the
Fee Schedule in Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances.
         (b)   If the exact number of circuits or horsepower is unknown at the
time of application for a permit, a permit may be taken for the minimum amount
known with new permits issued as the intent of the work known.
      (3)   Plumbing permits. For plumbing permits issued and obtained prior,
to commencement of the work for which such permit is required, fees shall be
levied. Refer to the Fee Schedule in Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances.
      (4)   Heating and air conditioning permits. For heating and air
conditioning permits issued and obtained prior to commencement of that work for
which such permit is required, fees shall be levied. When the total capacity of
any system in any single installation is provided by more than one unit, the
sum of the capacities of each, unit and the total number of such units shall
determine the fee. Refer to the Fee Schedule in Ch. 35 of this code of
ordinances.
      (5)   Remolding, alterations and repairs over $1,000 and pool
installations. Refer to the Fee Schedule in Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances.
      (6)   Miscellaneous. Refer to the Fee Schedule in Ch. 35 of this code of
ordinances.
   (E)   The fees for electrical, plumbing, heating and air conditioning
permits are all in addition to the fees for new construction, additions,
remodeling, alterations and repairs over $1,000 and pool installations.
(2005 Code, § 120.9) (Ord. 1997-4, passed 10-20-1997; Ord. 2007-1, passed - -
2007)
§ 151.10 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit hereunder, the Building
Commissioner shall:
   (A)   Review all building permit applications to determine a full compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter; and
   (B)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
(2005 Code, § 120.10)
§ 151.11 INSPECTIONS.
   After the issuance of any building permit hereunder, the Building
Commissioner, Superintendent of Electric and Water Department or his or her
designee and the Superintendent of the Street and Sewer Department or his or
her designee shall make, or shall cause to be made, such inspections of the
work being done under such permit as are necessary to ensure full compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter and the terms of the permit. Re-
inspections of work found to be incomplete or not ready for inspection are
subject to assessment of re-inspection fees as prescribed in this code.
(2005 Code, § 120.11)
§ 151.12 ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Commissioner or his or
her duly authorized representatives may enter at reasonable times any building,
structure or premises in the Town to perform any duty imposed upon him or her
by this code.
(2005 Code, § 120.12)
§ 151.13 STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this code, the
Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on
any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be done, and any such
persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the Building
Commissioner to proceed with the work. Any person aggrieved by the order herein
has the right of appeal as set out in §
151.17 of this chapter. If a person violates the order of the Building
Commissioner, the Building Commissioner shall seek relief pursuant to §§
151.18 and
151.99 of this chapter.
(2005 Code, § 120.13)
§ 151.14 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure erected, altered
or repaired after the adoption of this subchapter shall be issued unless such
building or structure was erected, altered or repaired in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(2005 Code, § 120.14)
§ 151.15 STANDARDS.
   All work on the construction, alteration and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade.
(2005 Code, § 120.15)
§ 151.16 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sub-lessee or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building
or structure, other than fences, in the Town or cause or permit the same to be
done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this code.
(2005 Code, § 120.16)
§ 151.17 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   All persons shall have the right to appeal the Building Commissioner’s
decision first through the Town Council and then through the Administrative
Building Council of the state, in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 22-13-
2-11 or I.C. 22-12-7, as applicable.
   (B)   Any person exercising his or her right to appeal herein shall provide
to the Clerk-Treasurer written notice requesting an appeal of the Building
Commissioner’s decision; said written notice should contain the name of the
person appealing said decision, the location and subject matter of the
decision, the date of the decision and a general statement concerning an error
of the decision.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall promptly notify the Town Council so that a
hearing can be held on the appeal by the Town Council within five days from the
date of receipt of the written notice.
(2005 Code, § 120.17)
§ 151.18 ENFORCING AN ORDER.
   The Building Commissioner shall, in the name of the Town, upon approval by
the Town Council, bring actions in the Circuit or Superior Courts of the county
for mandatory and injunctive relief in the enforcement of, and to secure
compliance with, any order or orders made by the Building Commissioner, and any
such action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be joined with an action to
recover the penalties provided for in this subchapter.
(2005 Code, § 120.18)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 151.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF LAW.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9, there is hereby established the
“Walkerton Unsafe Building Law”.
(2005 Code, § 125.1)
§ 151.31 STATE LAW ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 is hereby adopted by reference as the
“Walkerton Unsafe Building Law”.
   (B)   All proceedings within the Town for the inspection, repair and removal
of unsafe buildings shall be governed by said law and the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (C)   In the event the provisions of this subchapter conflict with the
provisions of I.C. 26-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28, then the provisions of the state
statute shall control.
(2005 Code, § 125.2)
§ 151.32 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the Town, which are determined
after inspection by the Building Commissioner or other duly elected official of
the Town Council, to be unsafe as defined in this subchapter are hereby
declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation,
demolition or removal.
(2005 Code, § 125.3)
§ 151.33 COMMISSIONER’S APPOINTMENT.
   The Town Building Commissioner will be appointed by the Town Council for a
one-year term starting on January 1 and, shall be authorized to administer and
to proceed under the provisions of said law upon prior approval of the Town
Council in ordering the repair or removal of any buildings found to be unsafe
as specified therein or as specified thereafter. If the Commissioner has not
been appointed or fails to qualify for said position, the Town Council or a
designated Town Council person shall act in place of the Building Commissioner.
(2005 Code, § 125.4)
§ 151.34 AUTHORITY.
   Whenever in the building regulations of the Town or the Town’s Unsafe
Building Law, it is provided that anything must be done to the approval of or
subject to the direction of the Building Commissioner, or any other officer of
the Town, this shall be construed to give such officer only the discretion of
determining whether the rules and standards established by ordinance have been
complied with; and no such provision shall be construed as giving any officer
discretionary powers as to what such regulations or standards shall be, power
to require conditions not prescribed by ordinance or to enforce ordinance
provisions in an arbitrary or discretionary manner.
(2005 Code, § 125.5)
§ 151.35 DESCRIPTION OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   The description of an unsafe building contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is hereby
supplemented to provide minimum standards for building condition or maintenance
in the Town by adding the following definition.
   UNSAFE BUILDING. Any building or structure hereinafter described shall be
deemed to be an un-safe building; provided that, such conditions or defects
exist to the extent that life, health, property or safety of the public or its
occupants are endangered:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is not
of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (2)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or
location;
      (3)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location;
      (4)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
      (5)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
      (6)   Whenever any portion thereof has cracked, warped, buckled or
settled to such an extent that the walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
      (7)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof because
of:
         (a)   Dilapidation, deterioration or decay;
         (b)   Faulty construction;
         (c)   The removal, movement or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
         (d)   The deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its foundation; or
         (e)   Any other cause, it is likely to partially or completely
collapse.
      (8)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
      (9)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plum line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
      (10)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members
or 50% of deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or outside
walls or coverings;
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as to
become:
         (a)   An attractive nuisance to children; or
         (b)   Freely accessible to persons for the purpose of committing
unlawful acts.
      (12)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists or
is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of the Town Council, or of any law or ordinance of the state or of the Town
relating to the condition, location or structure of buildings;
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances has in any non-supporting
part, member or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member or
portion less than 66% of the strength, fire resistant qualities or
characteristics, or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by
law in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height and
occupancy in the same location;
      (14)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangements, inadequate light, air or
sanitation facilities, or otherwise is determined by the Department of Public
Health to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such condition that
it is likely to cause sickness or disease;
      (15)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas connections
or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the State Fire Marshal
to be a fire hazard; and
      (16)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
(2005 Code, § 125.6)
§ 151.36 SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST.
   The definition of “substantial property interest” set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-
2 is hereby incorporated by reference herein as if copied in full.
(2005 Code, § 125.7)
§ 151.37 STANDARDS.
   (A)   All work for the reconstruction, alteration, repair or demolition of
buildings and other structures shall be performed in a good, workmanlike manner
according to the accepted standards and practices in the trade.
   (B)   The provisions of the rules pertaining to construction, plumbing,
electrical, mechanical and one- and two-family dwellings, promulgated by the
Administrative Building Council of the state, shall be considered standard and
acceptable practice for all matters covered by this subchapter or orders issued
pursuant to this subchapter issued pursuant to this subchapter by the Building
Commissioner of the Town.
(2005 Code, § 125.8)
§ 151.38 VIOLATIONS.
   No person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sub-lessee or
occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or premises, or
cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter or any order issued by the Building Commissioner
of the Town.
(2005 Code, § 125.10)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the provisions
of §§
151.01 through
151.18 of this chapter, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to
perform any duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Building
Commissioner, or shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order given
by the Building Commissioner in connection with the provisions of §§
151.01 through
151.18 of this chapter, for each such violation, failure or refusal, of such
person, firm or corporation shall be fined in a sum pursuant to the Appendix:
Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances. Each business day of such unlawful activity
as is prohibited by the first sentence of this division (B) shall constitute a
separate offense.
(2005 Code, § 120.19)
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
151.30 through
151.38 of this chapter or I.C. 36-7-9-28 shall commit a Class C infraction for
each day such violation continues.
(2005 Code, § 125.10)
CHAPTER 152: MANUFACTURED HOUSING
Section
   
152.01   Intent
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Standards
   
152.04   Appeal
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this chapter to encourage provision of alternative
modest income housing in general residential areas by permitting the use of
certain manufactured homes, as defined herein, in all districts in which
similar dwellings constructed on site are permitted, subject to the
requirements set forth herein to assure acceptable similarity in exterior
appearance between such manufactured homes and dwellings that have been or
might be constructed under these and other lawful regulations on adjacent or
nearby lots in the same district.
(2005 Code, § 123.1) (Ord. 1982-8, passed 8-30-1982)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXPANDO ROOM. An expandable manufactured housing unit.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit fabricated after 1-1-1981, in an off-site
manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the building site,
bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with the Federal
Manufacturing Housing Construction and Safety Standards, being 42 U.S.C. §§
5401 et seq., as promulgated by the State Administrative Building Council, and
containing more than 950 square feet of occupied space.
   MANUFACTURING HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS CODE. Title IV of
the 1974 Housing and Community Development Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq.), as
amended (previously known as the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Standards Act), rules and regulations adopted thereunder, which include H.U.D.
approved information supplied by the home manufacturer, and regulations and
interpretations of said code by the State Administrative Building Council.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable factory-built structure that contains less than
951 square feet of occupied space.
   ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING CODE, INDIANA. The mandatory statewide building
code adopted by the State Administrative Building Council for one- and two-
family residential dwellings.
   PUB. LAW NO. 360, ACTS OF 1971. Enabling legislation requiring the State
Administrative Building Council to adopt rules and regulations for the
construction, repair or maintenance of one- or two-family residential
dwellings.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A device for permitting use within a district other than
a principally permitted use.
(2005 Code, § 123.2) (Ord. 1982-8, passed 8-30-1982)
§ 152.03 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Permitted placement. The establishment, location and use of
manufactured homes as scattered- site residences shall be permitted in any zone
permitting installation of a dwelling unit subject to requirements and
limitations applying generally to such residential use in the district; and,
provided, such homes shall meet the following requirements and limitations.
      (1)   The home shall meet all requirements applicable to single-family
dwellings and possess all necessary improvement location, building and
occupancy permits and other certifications required by the code.
      (2)   The home shall be larger than 950 square feet of occupied space or
meet the minimum square footage requirements for the appropriate zone.
      (3)   The home shall be attached and anchored to a permanent foundation
in conformance with the regulations in the State One- and Two-Family Dwelling
Code and with manufacturer’s installation specifications.
      (4)   The home shall be covered with an exterior material customarily
used on site built residential dwellings, and such material shall extend over
the top of the foundation (or meet the community’s site built residential
dwelling home standards).
      (5)   The home shall have a roof composed of a material customarily used
on site built residential dwellings, such as asbestos, fiberglass, shake,
asphalt or tile, which shall be installed onto a surface appropriately pitched
for the materials used.
   (B)   Placement with permit. Mobile homes shall be permitted within the Town
only after receiving a special use permit from the Town Plan Commission
pursuant to §§
156.100 through
156.107 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Structural alteration. Due to its integral design, any structural
alteration or modification of a manufactured or mobile home after it is placed
on the site must be approved by the Plan Commission of the Town.
(2005 Code, § 123.3) (Ord. 1982-8, passed 8-30-1982)
§ 152.04 APPEAL.
   An action to review any order, requirement, decision or determination made
by an administrative official or board charged with enforcement of the zoning
ordinance shall be pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-919.
(2005 Code, § 123.4) (Ord. 1982-8, passed 8-30-1982)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to comply. Each day of non-compliance with the provisions of
this chapter by a home owner constitutes a separate and distinct ordinance
violation, judgment of a sum pursuant to the Appendix: Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Subject to removal. A home, sited upon property in violation of this
chapter, shall be subject to removal from such property. However, the home
owner must be given a reasonable opportunity to bring the property into
compliance before action for removal can be taken. If action finally is taken
by the appropriate authority to bring compliance, the expenses involved may be
made a lien against the property.
   (C)   Removal method. The Plan Commission or its designated administrator
may institute a suit in an appropriate court for injunctive relief to cause
such violation to be prevented, abated or removed.
(2005 Code, § 123.5) (Ord. 1982-8, passed 8-30-1982)
CHAPTER 153: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Street Improvements
   
153.01   Participation by Town
   
153.02   Limitations
   
153.03   Scope of participation
   
153.04   Method of participation
Excavations
   
153.15   Excavation of streets prohibited
   
153.16   Permit application
   
153.17   Performance and damage bond required
   
153.18   Insurance required
   
153.19   Separate permits required
   
153.20   Permit approval and issuance
   
153.21   Permit fee
   
153.22   Excavation time limit
   
153.23   Obstructions prohibited
Sidewalks
   
153.35   Construction material
   
153.36   Minimum width
   
153.37   Sidewalks required
   
153.38   Ice and snow removal; failure to remove
   
153.39   Sidewalk openings
   
153.40   Laying, relaying and repair
 
   
153.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Subdivisions, see
Ch. 155
   Zoning, see
Ch. 156
STREET IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.01 PARTICIPATION BY TOWN.
   The Town may participate with owners of lands abutting streets within the
Town, in the creation and improvement and development of such streets in
accordance with the requirements and standards for street improvements
established by the Town, by its Town Council, shall determine to participate in
the cost of the development or improvement of streets with owners of lands
abutting new streets without new residential or new commercial areas or new
subdivisions of the Town, then such participation by the Town shall be
undertaken by the enactment of a special ordinance by the Town, setting forth
the extent and amount of participation in dollars, undertaken by the Town.
(2005 Code, § 90.01)
§ 153.02 LIMITATIONS.
   Participation by the Town in the cost of development or improvement of such
streets in new residential or new commercial areas or new subdivisions of the
Town shall be limited so that the total cost to the Town for its share in
participating in the cost of any particular new residential or new commercial
street, development or improvement, shall not exceed a total of a sum as
referenced in the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances in any calendar year and the participation of
said Town in said cost shall further be limited to a cost not exceeding 15% of
a local street, 20% of a minor collector street and 25% of a major collector
street or larger street, all as defined in the Master Plan of the Town.
(2005 Code, § 90.02)
§ 153.03 SCOPE OF PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   The participation by the Town in the cost of development and
improvement of new streets and roads in new residential areas and new
commercial areas or new subdivisions within the corporate limits of the Town
shall extend to and may apply only to the installation of concrete or asphalt
streets in said areas for the construction of said streets. The participation
in the cost of said streets by the Town shall not be deemed mandatory in any
instance and participation shall not be undertaken unless and until provisions
of this subchapter and all applicable ordinances have been fully complied with.
   (B)   In computing or calculating the cost of any such street wherein the
Town shall undertake to participate with adjoining property owners abutting
said street, the cost thereof, the cost of grading and excavating and the cost
of engineering not to exceed 10% of the total street cost, which said
engineering cost shall be subject to approval by the Town incurred in
connection with the development and improving of said street, is to be
considered as part of the total cost of said street.
(2005 Code, § 90.03)
§ 153.04 METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
   Participation by the Town shall be limited by the provisions hereinbefore
provided for and shall be undertaken only after:
   (A)   Plans and specifications for such proposed streets or roads have been
drawn as required by law, and submitted and filed with and approved by the
Town;
   (B)   Bids have been submitted and made pursuant to published notice to
bidders, which said notice to bidders shall be published twice, at least one
week apart, in a newspaper of general circulation in the Town and which said
notice to bidders shall provide notice that bids for the construction of said
streets or roads will be awarded at a meeting of the Town Council, not less
than 14 days after the first published notice to bidders has been published and
which said notice to bidders shall provide that the Town may accept the lowest
and best bid and reserves the right to reject any and all bids and which said
notice shall set forth where the plans and specifications shall be available to
the bidders for their use in preparing their bids; and
   (C)   In the event that the dollar amount of participation to be undertaken
by the Town, after bids have been received for a project of street development
or improvement as hereinbefore provided for, is less property owner of land
abutting the said street or road to be developed or improved with the
participation of the Town hereunder satisfies the Town Council, that share of
the cost to be undertaken by the Town can, in no event, exceed the sum as
referenced by the Fee Schedule in Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances, then the
Town in cooperation and jointly with the owner of the land abutting said street
or individually may contract for the Town’s share of the cost or for the total
cost of the project and may bill the developer or abutting land owner of the
land abutting said street for their share or the Town may permit the developer
or owner of the land abutting said street to enter into a contract for the
entire project with the contractor, and the Town may participate by making
payment of its share of the cost directly to the owner of the property
adjoining said street; provided that, payment therefor shall not be made by the
Town until such time as the street improvement has been completed on the
particular phase of the total project which has been established for completion
at the particular time.
(2005 Code, § 90.04)
EXCAVATIONS
§ 153.15 EXCAVATION OF STREETS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall excavate or dig in any of the streets, highways, alleys or
public grounds of the Town without first obtaining a permit from the Town.
(2005 Code, § 92.01)
§ 153.16 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to make any openings in any of the streets, highways,
alleys or public grounds of the Town, or to excavate or dig therein, shall file
an application provided by the Town with the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town.
(2005 Code, § 92.02)
§ 153.17 PERFORMANCE AND DAMAGE BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   The applicant shall file a bond in the penal sum of not less than
$2,000 conditioned for the performance of the work and the maintenance of said
work for a period of one year from the completion of such work.
   (B)   In the event personal sureties are used, they shall sign an affidavit
that they are worth over and above the amount of their indebtedness the penalty
of said bond.
(2005 Code, § 92.03)
§ 153.18 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   The applicant shall further furnish to the Town at the time of making
application proof of the fact that he or she is covered by liability insurance
in an amount not less than $50,000 for property damage and $100,000 for injury
to any one person and $300,000 for any one accident. Said applicant shall prove
to the satisfaction of the Town the payment of a premium for said insurance so
that the Town will be protected for a period of one year from the date of the
commencement.
(2005 Code, § 92.04) (Ord. 2001-07, passed 6-4-2001)
§ 153.19 SEPARATE PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A separate permit shall be obtained for the making of separate openings and
excavations. However, a person may file one bond to cover and apply to all work
to be done under several permits.
(2005 Code, § 92.05)
§ 153.20 PERMIT APPROVAL AND ISSUANCE.
   Upon the filing of the application and bond, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
notify the Building Inspector or a Utility Superintendent. If said application
is satisfactory and the bond is sufficient as to form and surety, the Building
Inspector or Utility Superintendent shall approve the application by endorsing
their approval thereon. The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a permit only upon
receipt of approval of the application.
(2005 Code, § 92.06) (Ord. 2001-07, passed 6-4-2001)
§ 153.21 PERMIT FEE.
   The applicant shall pay to the Clerk-Treasurer simultaneously with his or
her application a permit fee in the amount as set out in the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances. In the event the application and/or bond of
the applicant is not approved, the fee shall be returned to the applicant.
(2005 Code, § 92.07) (Ord. 2001-07, passed 6-4-2001)
§ 153.22 EXCAVATION TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   No opening in any street, highway, alley or public grounds of the Town
shall remain open for a period of more than five consecutive days. One five-day
extension of time on excavation openings may be granted by the person who
approved the permit upon a showing by the permit holder of good and sufficient
reason for such extension. Any additional extension of time on excavation
openings may be granted by the Town Council on petition of the permit holder
demonstrating necessity.
   (B)   The permit holder is solely responsible for erecting barricades or
other safeguards to protect the excavation and those who are exposed to the
excavation.
(2005 Code, § 92.08)
§ 153.23 OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall erect any building, fence or other obstruction upon any
street, alley, sidewalk or public grounds in the Town.
(2005 Code, § 92.09)
SIDEWALKS
§ 153.35 CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL.
   All sidewalks constructed in the Town shall be composed of cement or
concrete.
(2005 Code, § 91.01)
§ 153.36 MINIMUM WIDTH.
   No sidewalk constructed in the Town shall have a width of less than five
feet.
(2005 Code, § 91.02)
§ 153.37 SIDEWALKS REQUIRED.
   No person shall occupy any building, house or other structure prior to the
time sidewalks are constructed meeting the requirements of this subchapter
existing at the time of the proposed occupancy.
(2005 Code, § 91.03)
§ 153.38 ICE AND SNOW REMOVAL; FAILURE TO REMOVE.
   (A)   The occupant, or if unoccupied, the owner, of any premises situated
within the Town shall remove ice and snow from the sidewalks in front of and
adjacent to such premises within 24 hours after its accumulation.
(2005 Code, § 91.04)
   (B)   If any such owner or occupant does not remove such ice and snow as
provided herein, the Street Superintendent is hereby authorized to remove or
cause to be removed same, and report in writing the necessary expense incident
thereto to the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town, who shall certify the amount with a
description of the lot or parcel of ground, and with the owner or owners’ name
or names, to the Clerk-Treasurer, which amount shall then become a lien upon
said lot or parcel of ground, and shall be collected by the same Clerk-
Treasurer at the same time and in the same manner that he or she collects other
assessments on real estate.
(2005 Code, § 91.05)
§ 153.39 SIDEWALK OPENINGS.
   No person shall leave or keep open any cellar door, or window grating, or
vault on any sidewalk so as to endanger life and limb.
(2005 Code, § 91.06)
§ 153.40 LAYING, RELAYING AND REPAIR.
   (A)   Work permit. Sidewalk permit must be secured from the Town before
commencing work for each job done. The correct location, amount of work
material to be used and the party doing the work must be furnished before it
can be issued.
(2005 Code, § 91.21)
   (B)   Cash deposit required; liability bonds; property owners desiring to do
own work.
      (1)   Each person, firm or corporation regularly engaged in the laying,
relaying and repairing of sidewalks shall be required to deposit a sum as set
out in the Fee Schedule in
Ch. 35 of this code of ordinances in cash, and shall give a liability bond in
the sum of $500. The liability bond shall save the Town harmless from any laws
or expenditure in any manner arising from the conduct of any person, firm or
corporation in laying, relaying, or repairing sidewalks; from any loss or
damage which may arise by reason of any construction, excavation, barrier
guards or other objects or materials placed or deposited in the streets during
the progress of the work; or the expense of removing the same and cleaning
streets or sidewalks; and any loss or damage arising from acts or negligence or
default of the person, firm or corporation.
      (2)   The contractor shall be required to furnish a maintenance bond in
an amount equal to 50% of the contract price. The maintenance bond shall insure
that:
         (a)   Sidewalks laid, re-laid or repaired will remain in good
condition in satisfaction of the Town Council or the Town Street Superintendent
for a full period of three years from the laying, relaying or repairing; and
         (b)   Upon appearance of any defects, disintegration or default in the
sidewalk due to any acts, omission or default of the one laying it, the
sidewalk shall be immediately repaired and restored to a good and proper
condition to the satisfaction of the Town Council or the Town Street
Superintendent, as to such defects as may appear at any time within the period
of three years of the year of laying, relaying or repair of said sidewalks.
      (3)   The liability bond and the cash deposit, less any expense which may
have been charged against them by the Town, shall be returned whenever the
person, firm or corporation entitled to lay, relay or repair sidewalks shall
have completed the work to the satisfaction of the Town Council and the Town
Superintendent of Streets.
      (4)   Property owners desiring to do their own work must comply with
divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above; except that, the maintenance bond will not
be required.
(2005 Code, § 91.22)
   (C)   Removal of work debris, suitable barricades to be erected. All debris
and rubbish must be removed within 48 hours after the completion of the work.
During the process of construction, all excavations, embankments and all
materials on the ground shall be guarded by suitable barricades so as to
protect the public from accident. All cement walks shall have the top surface
roughened, unless a majority of the property owners so affected petition
otherwise. The gutters of any street continuous to the work must be kept clear
at all times.
(2005 Code, § 91.23)
   (D)   Town authority over sidewalks; sidewalk dimensions.
      (1)   All sidewalks shall at all times be under the direction of the Town
Council or the Town Superintendent of Streets.
      (2)   The space between the curb and the property line on each side of
the paved street on curbed streets shall constitute the sidewalk; upon unpaved
streets, the sidewalk shall be the portion adjoining the property line on each
side, and shall have a width equal to one-fifth the distance between property
lines, but in no case shall the sidewalks be less than five feet in width,
except in alleys of 16 feet or less in width, or the sidewalks shall be two and
one-half feet in width.
(2005 Code, § 91.24)
   (E)   Permanent surfacing of sidewalks. All sidewalks hereafter improved by
placing walks with a permanent surfacing on any public highway or street within
the Town shall be approved by constructing the walks with stone flagging or
concrete, and in accordance with the specifications prescribed by the Town
Council.
(2005 Code, § 91.25)
   (F)   Grading of sidewalks. Any grading necessary between the walks as laid
and the curved line, or between the sidewalks and the edge of the sidewalk
space as established in division (D) above, shall be done at the time of laying
the walks so as to leave the sidewalk space at the grade described in division
(G) below.
(2005 Code, § 91.26)
   (G)   Coincidence with curb line. Any sidewalk so improved shall coincide
with the line described as follows:
      (1)   Beginning at the curb line with the established curb-grade as
determined by the Town Engineer; then extending to the street line at right
angles to the curb line, with a rise of three-eighths inch to the foot; and
      (2)   However, at street intersections where the grade of the
intersecting street prevents compliance with the above provisions, the walk
shall be laid under the direction and to the acceptance of the Town Council or
Public Works Director.
(2005 Code, § 91.27)
   (H)   Required installation of public sidewalks within Town limits. Public
sidewalks, of not less than five feet in width and complying with the Town
Engineer’s specifications, shall be installed in the future, in all areas,
zones or districts within the corporate limits of the Town, whenever a new
structure, off-street parking lot or improvement is erected, installed or
placed or occupancy in use is made thereof, hereafter.
(2005 Code, § 91.28)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Each day any portion of §§
153.15 through
153.23 of this chapter is violated shall constitute a separate offense. A fine
of a sum pursuant to Appendix: Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances shall apply to each offense.
(2005 Code, § 92.10) (Ord. 2001-07, passed 6-4-2001)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Statutory authorization
   
154.02   Findings of fact
   
154.03   Statement of purpose
   
154.04   Objectives
   
154.05   Definitions
   
154.06   Lands to which chapter applies
   
154.07   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
154.08   Establishment of floodplain development permits
   
154.09   Compliance
   
154.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.11   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
154.12   Interpretation
   
154.13   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
154.14   Increased cost of compliance (ICC)
   
154.15   Severability
   
154.16   Effective date
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
154.30   General standards
   
154.31   Specific standards
   
154.32   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
154.33   Critical facility
   
154.34   Standards for identified floodways
   
154.35   Standards for identified fringe
   
154.36   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringe
   
154.37   Standards for flood-prone areas
Administration
   
154.50   Designation of Administrator; duties
   
154.51   Permit procedures
Variance Procedures
   
154.65   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board; duties
   
154.66   Variance procedures and conditions
   
154.67   Variance notifications
   
154.68   Historic structure
   
154.69   Special conditions
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The state’s legislature has, in I.C. 36-7-4 and I.C. 14-28-4, granted the
power to local government units to control land use within their jurisdictions.
Therefore, the Town Council does hereby adopt the following floodplain
management regulations.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the Town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available for structures and
their contents in the Town by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood-control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in floodplains;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood- prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas; and
   (G)   To ensure that potential home buyers are notified that property is in
a flood area.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. The definitions of the following terms are presented below. Portions
of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is runoff from rainfall,
snowmelt or a combination of both. In A ZONES, flood waters may move slowly or
rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant threat to buildings. These
areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30, Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR
and Zone A99 on a FIRM or FHBM.
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase
requirements apply.
      (2)   ZONE AE and A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements
apply. (Zone AE is on new and revised maps in place of Zones A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone. Mandatory flood insurance
purchase requirements apply.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements apply.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection. Mandatory flood insurance
purchase requirements apply.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements
apply.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure that is located on
the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation
and be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns and hay
sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed ADDITION, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (500-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 0.2% chance
of being equaled or exceeded in any year.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
FEMA, where the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard have been
identified as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable) and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood, plus
two feet at any given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD.)
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage prevention
ordinance and floodplain management requirements.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD.)
   FLOOD-PROOFING (DRY FLOOD-PROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is water-tight to the flood- proofed design elevation with walls
that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOOD-PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair or seafood
processing facilities. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HARDSHIP. As related to variances of this chapter, the exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The Town
Council requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual and peculiar to the
property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not
exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional HARDSHIP. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition or any combination thereof. All renewal and new business
flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after 6-1-1997, will
include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment to the currently effective FEMA
map that establishes that a property is not located in a SFHA. A LOMA is only
issued by FEMA.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations
and elevations.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision by
letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support or basement entryway
immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest of the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest enclosed level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars;
      (5)   The top of the first floor of a structure constructed with a crawl
space; provided, construction meets requirements of division (6)(a) below; or
      (6)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls having a total net area of one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area. The bottom of all such openings shall
be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the interior grade
immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher and shall be located
entirely below the FPG; and
         (b)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP AMENDMENT. A change to an effective NFIP map that results in the
exclusion from the SFHA of an individual structure or a legally described
parcel of land that has been inadvertently included in the SFHA (i.e., no
alterations of topography have occurred since the date of the first NFIP map
that showed the structure or parcel to be within the SFHA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number followed by a letter suffix assigned
by FEMA on a flood map. The first four digits represent the map panel, and the
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter “A” is not used by FEMA; the letter “B” is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value) or adjusted
assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is two fold: to protect people and structures and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929 AS CORRECTED IN 1929. A
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88) AS ADOPTED IN 1993. A
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with
the letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. (See REGULATORY FLOOD.)
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. (See REGULATORY FLOOD.)
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. Any community that voluntarily elects to
participate in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management
regulations that are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
12-31-1974, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before 12-31-1974, or before the effective date of the initial
FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the State Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
154.07 of this chapter. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the terms BASE
FLOOD, 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period ending on the date of the event for
which the second claim is made, in which the cost of repairing the flood
damage, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of the market value of the
structure at the time of each such flood event.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations or ordinances that intended
to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in flood-
prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdictions of
the Walkerton subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the
Town are generally identified as such on the St. Joseph County and Incorporated
Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency, dated 1-6-2011. The SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated St. Joseph
County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Town or that
may be annexed into the Town are generally identified as such on the St. Joseph
County and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and dated 1-6-2011. (These areas are shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1-A30, AH, AR, A99 or AO.)
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued; provided, the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual START means the first placement or permanent construction of a
structure (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of
slabs or footing, installation of plies, construction of columns or any work
beyond the stage of excavation for placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, foundations or the erection of temporary forms. For substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “repetitive loss”
or “substantial damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary or safety code requirements or any
alteration of a “historic structure”; provided that, the alteration will not
preclude the structures continued designation as a “historic structure”.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification or other evidence of compliance required in this
chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88) or National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929
(NGVD) (other datum where specified) of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X ZONES (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FHBM or FIRM that reflects the severity
or type of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See definition for A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(Zone X is used on new and revised maps in place of Zones B and C.)
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.06 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the Town.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood.
   (B)   The best available regulatory flood data is listed below. Whenever a
party disagrees with the best available data, the party submitting the detailed
engineering study needs to replace existing data with better data and submit it
to the State Department of Natural Resources for review and approval.
      (1)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs of the county shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood
profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of St. Joseph County and Incorporated
Areas dated 1-6-2011 and the corresponding Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated 1-6-2011.
      (2)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for each
of the remaining SFHAs delineated as an “A Zone” on the FIRM of St. Joseph
County prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated 1-6-2011
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the State
Department of Natural Resources; provided, the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile.
      (3)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of
identification on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway and
fringe limits of any watercourse in the community’s known flood-prone areas
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the State
Department of Natural Resources; provided, the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.11 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation, that site shall be considered outside the SFHA and the
floodplain regulations will not be applied. The property owner should be
advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.12 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit, nor repeal, any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.13 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study.
   (B)   Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions.
   (C)   Therefore, this chapter does not create any liability on the part of
the Town, the State Department of Natural Resources or the state for any flood
damage that results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.14 INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).
   In order for buildings to qualify for a claim payment under ICC coverage as
a “repetitive loss structure”, the National Flood Insurance Reform Act of 1994,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq. requires that the building be covered by a
contract for flood insurance and incur flood-related damages on two occasions
during a ten-year period ending on the date of the event for which the second
claim is made, in which the cost of repairing the flood damage, on the average,
equaled or exceeded 25% of the market value of the building at the time of each
such flood event.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.15 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, sentence or phrase of the chapter is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then said
holding shall in no way effect the validity of the remaining portions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.16 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect upon its passage by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 154.30 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas, the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure
that is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall be
undertaken only if said non-conformity is not further, extended or replaced.
   (K)   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume of
space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the BFE
shall be compensated for and balanced by an equivalent volume of excavation
taken below the BFE. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the
volume of storage lost (replacement ratio of one to one) due to the fill or
structure.
      (1)   The excavation shall take place in the floodplain and in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located.
      (2)   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to take
place outside of but adjacent to the floodplain; provided that, the excavated
volume will be below the regulatory flood elevation, will be in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located, will be
accessible to the regulatory flood water, will not be subject to ponding when
not inundated by flood water, and that it shall not be refilled.
      (3)   The excavation shall provide for true storage of flood water, but
shall not be subject to ponding when not inundated by flood water.
      (4)   The fill or structure shall not obstruct a drainage way leading to
the floodplain.
      (5)   The grading around the excavation shall be such that the excavated
area is accessible to the
regulatory flood water.
      (6)   The fill or structure shall be of a material deemed stable enough
to remain firm and in place during periods of flooding and shall include
provisions to protect adjacent property owners against any increased runoff or
drainage resulting from its placement.
      (7)   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated and filled shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction or any site work; once site
work is complete, but before the actual start of construction, the applicant
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a certified survey of the
excavation and fill sites demonstrating the fill and excavation comply with
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.31 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   General. In addition to the requirements of §
154.30 of this chapter, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be
protected from flood damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement
applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any new structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure:
         (a)   Where the cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds
50% of the value of the existing structure (excluding the value of the land);
or
         (b)   With a previous addition or improvement constructed since the
community’s first floodplain ordinance.
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage; and
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
   (B)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor; including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood
waters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
below.
   (C)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or non-residential structure (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be
flood- proofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of flood waters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
division (D) below. Structures located in all “A Zones” may be flood- proofed
in lieu of being elevated if done in accordance with the following.
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are water-tight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in division (D) above.
      (2)   Flood-proofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures. New construction, reconstruction or substantial
improvements of elevated structures that include fully enclosed areas formed by
foundation and other exterior walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude
finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood
waters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
      (1)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area;
      (2)   All openings shall be located entirely below the FPG;
      (3)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above the
foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or high than the
exterior foundation grade);
      (4)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided, they permit the automatic flow of flood waters
in both directions;
      (5)   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction in
the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device;
      (6)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
      (7)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned
or finished into separate
rooms; and
      (8)   Where elevation requirements exceed six feet above the highest
adjacent grade, a copy of the legally recorded deed restriction prohibiting the
conversion of the area below the lowest floor to a use or dimension contrary to
the structure’s originally approved design, shall be presented as a condition
of issuance of the final certificate of occupancy.
   (E)   Standards for structures constructed with a crawlspace. A residential
or non-residential structure may be constructed with a crawlspace located below
the FPG; provided that, the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   Any enclosed area below the FPG shall have openings that equalize
hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic entry and exit of flood
waters. Designs for complying with this requirement must either be certified by
a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum criteria.
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings in a minimum of two exterior
walls having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every one
square foot of enclosed area.
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade).
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of flood waters in
both directions.
      (3)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
FPG.
      (4)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawlspace to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed four
feet at any point.
      (5)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove flood
waters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period of
time after a flood event.
      (6)   Portions of the building below the FPG must be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage.
      (7)   The interior grade of the crawlspace must be at or above the base
flood elevation.
   (F)   Standards for structures constructed on filled stem wall foundation. A
residential or non- residential structure may be constructed on filled stem
wall foundation (filled chain wall foundation); provided, the following
conditions are met.
      (1)   The solid perimeter foundation wall is backfilled with compacted
structural fill to adequately support a slab floor.
      (2)   The top of the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG.
   (G)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or non-residential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following.
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with the either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method.
      (2)   The fill should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation of
the structure before sloping
below the FPG.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover,
riprap or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is used, the slopes shall be no
steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (H)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements.
      (1)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent foundation
such that the lowest
floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
This requirement applies to all manufactured homes to be placed on a site:
         (a)   Outside a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home
has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood.
      (2)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement. This requirement applies to all
manufactured homes to be placed on a site in an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision that has not been substantially damaged by a flood.
      (3)   Manufactured homes with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the FPG (crawlspaces or under-floor spaces)
shall be designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow for
the entry and exit of flood waters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls as required for elevated structures in division (D)
above.
      (4)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame or
foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (5)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions);
or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes”, as stated
earlier in this section.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.32 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.33 CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Flood-proofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into flood waters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.34 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
154.07 of this chapter, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an
extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters, which carry
debris, potential projectiles and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the State Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway.
      (2)   Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1, a permit for construction in
a floodway from the State Department of Natural Resources is required prior to
the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation, deposit,
construction or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This includes
land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and paving and
the like undertaken before the actual start of construction of the structure.
      (3)   However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of non-substantial additions/improvements to residences in
a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the State Department of Natural Resources. Please note that,
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval (construction in a floodway permit) for the fill is required from the
State Department of Natural Resources.)
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit (when applicable) has been issued by the State Department of Natural
Resources granting approval for construction in the floodway. Once a permit for
construction in a floodway has been issued by the State Department of Natural
Resources, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain
development permit; provided the provisions contained in this subchapter have
been met. The floodplain development permit cannot be less restrictive than the
permit for construction in a floodway issued by the State Department of Natural
Resources. However, a community’s more restrictive regulations (if any) shall
take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, will increase the regulatory flood more
than 0.14 of one foot.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees), the Town shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.35 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit; provided, the
provisions contained in this subchapter have been met. The key provision is
that the top of the lowest floor of any new or substantially improved structure
shall be at or above the FPG.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.36 STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS/FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the State Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway or a floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment citing the 100-year flood elevation and the recommended
FPG has been received from the State Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment
approving the proposed development, a floodplain development permit may be
issued provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not
less restrictive than the conditions received from the State Department of
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in this subchapter have been
met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 100-year flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit; provided, the provisions contained in this
subchapter have been met.
   (C)   Cumulative. The total cumulative effect of the proposed development
when combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not
increase the regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot and will not increase
flood damages or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.37 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD-PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood-prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet general standards as
required per §
154.30 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.50 DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby appoints the Town Council President to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein referred
to as the “Floodplain Administrator”.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose. Duties and responsibilities
of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations;
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
State Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
154.34 and
154.36(A) of this chapter, and maintain a record of such authorization (either
copy of actual permit or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment);
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits are to be maintained on file with the floodplain development
permit;
      (5)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
      (6)   Maintain, for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Amendment
(LOMA), Letters of Map Revision (LOMR), copies of DNR permits and floodplain
analysis and regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit
documents and “as-built” elevation and flood-proofing data for all buildings
constructed subject to this chapter;
      (7)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Revision (LOMR) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community;
      (8)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (9)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
154.51 of this chapter;
      (10)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in accordance with §
154.51 of this chapter;
      (11)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
      (12)   Stop-work orders:
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (13)   Revocation of permits:
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the ordinance, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
      (14)   Inspect sites for compliance. For all new and/or substantially
improved buildings constructed in the SFHA, inspect before, during and after
construction. Authorized Town officials shall have the right to enter and
inspect properties located in the SFHA.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.51 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities and the location
of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required.
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all proposed buildings.
Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD;
         (f)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be flood-proofed; and
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Construction stage.
         (a)   1.   Upon placement of the lowest floor, or flood-proofing, it
shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD elevation of the lowest
floor or flood-proofed elevation, as built. Said certification shall be
prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by the same.
            2.   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure
said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
professional engineer or architect and certified by same. Any work undertaken
prior to submission of the certification shall be at the permit holders’ risk.
(The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and flood-proofing
elevation survey data submitted.) The permit holder shall correct deficiencies
detected by such review before any further work is allowed to proceed.
         (b)   Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said corrections
required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 154.65 DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals, as established by the Town Council, shall
hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in
any requirement, decision or determination is made by the Floodplain
Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person
aggrieved by the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the Circuit
Court of the county.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.66 VARIANCE PROCEDURES AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (4)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (5)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (7)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (9)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
of transport of the flood waters at the site; and
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (B)   (1)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public or
conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
      (2)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
154.34 and
154.36(A) of this chapter may be granted.
      (3)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
154.34 and
154.36(A) of this chapter will require a permit from the State Department of
Natural Resources.
      (4)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
154.31 of this chapter may be granted only when a new structure is to be
located on a lot of one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded
by lots with existing structures constructed below the FPG.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (6)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of
any structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places
or the State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
      (7)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation. (See §
154.67 of this chapter.)
      (8)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the State Department of Natural Resources upon request. (See § 154.67 of this
chapter.)
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.67 VARIANCE NOTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall by recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances
issued in the community’s biennial report submission to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.68 HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of “historic
structures” upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an “historic
structure” and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.69 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in this subchapter, and the
purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or
conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All
violations shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in
accordance with the provisions of
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances. All violations shall be punishable by a
fine pursuant to the Appendix: Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (C)   The Town Council shall inform the owner, that any such violation is
considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the Town from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2010-7, passed 12- -2010)
CHAPTER 155: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Short title
   
155.002   Purpose
   
155.003   Meaning of “subdivision”
   
155.004   Jurisdiction
   
155.005   Enactment
   
155.006   Interpretation, conflict and separability
   
155.007   Repealer
   
155.008   Amendments
   
155.009   Conditions; compliance
   
155.010   Resubdivision of land; replat
   
155.011   Vacation of plats
   
155.012   Variances; modifications
   
155.013   Definitions
Subdivision Application Procedure and Approval Process
   
155.025   Determinations for plat approval; conditions
   
155.026   Review procedure; preliminary plat
   
155.027   Review procedure; final plat
   
155.028   Minor subdivision
   
155.029   Major subdivision
Design Principles and Standards
   
155.040   Design criteria
   
155.041   Principles of street design
   
155.042   Block standards
   
155.043   Lot standards
   
155.044   Easements
   
155.045   Commercial and industrial subdivisions
   
155.046   Reserve strips
Specifications; Improvements and Installation
   
155.060   Improvements
   
155.061   Street improvements
   
155.062   Pavement construction
   
155.063   Curb and gutter
   
155.064   Sidewalks
   
155.065   Roadside swales
   
155.066   Street identification signs
   
155.067   Drainage
   
155.068   Sanitary sewage system
   
155.069   Water system
   
155.070   Monuments
Applications, Certifications and Forms
   
155.085   Survey certification
   
155.086   Certificate of ownership
   
155.087   Dedication
   
155.088   Acceptance of dedications
   
155.089   Plan Commission approval
   
155.090   Performance bond sample surety bond
   
155.091   Sample maintenance agreement form
   
155.092   Sample maintenance bond form
   
155.093   Sample agreement form for development of subdivisions
   
155.094   Completion affidavit
   
155.095   Minor subdivision application
   
155.096   Preliminary subdivision application
   
155.097   Final subdivision application
   
155.098   Subdivision replat application
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Subdivision Control
Ordinance of Walkerton, St. Joseph County, Indiana” or “this chapter”.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.002 PURPOSE.
   For the purpose of promoting the public health and safety, comfort and
welfare of persons living within the corporate boundaries of the Town: to guide
the future growth and development in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan; to
encourage the orderly and beneficial development; to protect and conserve the
value of land; to establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivision; in order to further the orderly layout and use
of land; and, to ensure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided
land.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.003 MEANING OF “SUBDIVISION”.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the word SUBDIVISION shall mean land,
vacant or improved, both residential and non-residential, which is divided for
the purpose of sale, lease or development, whether by deed, metes and bounds
description, devise, intestacy, lease, map, plat or other recorded instrument.
   (B)   The division of a single lot, tract or parcel of land, into two or
more lots, tracts or parcels, any one of which is less than five acres, for the
purpose whether immediate or future, or transfer of ownership, for residential,
commercial or industrial purposes may be by means of a minor or major
subdivision in accordance with the provisions of this chapter; provided,
however, that, this definition shall not include the division of a single
parcel into lots five acres or greater in area, or that this definition shall
not include divisions of land for agricultural purposes only, not involving any
new street(s) or easement(s) of access; or the sale or exchange of parcels
between adjoining lot owners that do not create additional building sites.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.004 JURISDICTION.
   These subdivision regulations shall apply to all subdivisions of land, as
defined herein, located within the corporate limits of the Town.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.005 ENACTMENT.
   In order that land may be subdivided in accordance with the purposes set
forth, these subdivision regulations are hereby adopted.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.006 INTERPRETATION, CONFLICT AND SEPARABILITY.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of these
regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of
the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These regulations are not intended to interfere with, or abrogate,
other provision of law; where any provision of these regulations imposes
restriction different from those imposed by other provisions, whichever
provisions are more restrictive or impose higher standards shall control.
   (C)   If any part or provisions of these regulations or application thereof,
to any person or circumstances, is adjudged invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such judgment shall be confined in its operation to the part,
provision or application directly involved in all controversy in which such
judgment shall have been rendered and shall not affect or impair the validity
of the remainder of these regulations or the application thereof, to other
persons or circumstances. The Town Council hereby declares that it would have
enacted the remainder of these regulations even without any such part,
provision or application.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.007 REPEALER.
   Upon adoption of these regulations according to law, the Subdivision Control
Ordinance, Ord. 8-1978, adopted by the Town Council on 11-27-1978, as amended,
are hereby repealed in their entirety, except as to such sections expressly
retained herein.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.008 AMENDMENTS.
   For the purpose of providing for the public health, safety and general
welfare, the Town Council may from time to time amend the provisions imposed by
these subdivision regulations. Public hearings on all proposed amendments shall
be held by the Plan Commission in the manner prescribed by law, with its
recommendations or said amendment forwarded to the Town Council for final
action.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.009 CONDITIONS; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Regulation of the subdivision of land and the attachment of reasonable
conditions to land subdivision, is an exercise of valid police power delegated
by the state. The developer has the duty of compliance with reasonable
conditions laid down by the Plan Commission for design, dedication, improvement
and restrictive use of the land, so as to conform to the physical and
economical development of the community at large.
   (B)   No lot in a subdivision shall be sold; no building permit shall be
issued, and no building shall be erected in a subdivision until a final plat
has been approved and has been recorded.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.010 RESUBDIVISION OF LAND; REPLAT.
   (A)   Procedure for resubdivision. For any change in an approved or recorded
subdivision plat if such change affects any street layout, or area reserved for
public use, or any lot line, such change shall be approved by the Plan
Commission by the same procedure, rules and regulations as for a minor or major
subdivision, depending on the degree of the replatting. (See §
155.098 of this chapter for a sample application for replat.)
   (B)   Procedure for subdivision where future resubdivision is indicated.
Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided and the subdivision plat shows one or
more lots containing more than one acre of land and there are indications that
such lots will eventually be resubdivided into smaller building sites, the Plan
Commission may require such parcel of land to allow for the future opening of
streets and the ultimate opening of adjacent streets. Easements providing for
the future opening and extension of streets may be made a requirement of the
plat.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.011 VACATION OF PLATS.
   (A)   Any plat, or any part of any plat, may be vacated by the owner, at any
time before the sale of any lot therein. Such action shall be by a written
instrument, to which a copy of such plat shall be attached, declaring the same
to be vacated.
   (B)   The request shall be submitted to the Plan Commission and such
instrument shall be approved by the Plan Commission, in like manner as plats of
subdivisions after public hearing. The Plan Commission may reject any such
instrument which abridges or destroys any public right in any of its public
uses, improvements, streets or alleys.
   (C)   If such an instrument is approved, it shall be executed, acknowledged
and recorded, in like manner as plats of subdivisions; and being duly recorded
shall operate to destroy the force and effect of the recording of the plat so
vacated, and to divest all public rights in the streets, alleys and public
grounds, and all dedications laid out or described in such plat.
   (D)   When lots have been sold, the plat may be vacated in the manner herein
provided by all the owners of lots in such plat joining in the execution of the
instrument.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.012 VARIANCES; MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Where the Plan Commission finds that extraordinary hardships or
practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with these regulations
and/or the purposes of these regulations may be served to a greater extent by
an alternative proposal, it may approve variances or modifications to these
subdivision regulations so substantial justice may be done.
   (B)   The Plan Commission shall not approve variances or permit
modifications unless it shall make findings based upon the evidence presented
to it in each specific case that:
      (1)   The granting of the variance or modification will not be
detrimental to the public safety, health or welfare or injurious to other
property;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the request for modification or variance
is based are unique to the property and are not applicable generally to other
property;
      (3)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of these regulations are carried out; or
      (4)   The variances or modifications will not in any manner vary the
provisions of
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances, the Comprehensive Plan or the Official
Zoning Map.
   (C)   A petition for any such variance or modifications shall be submitted
in writing by the subdivider at the time the preliminary plat is filed for the
consideration of the Plan Commission. The application shall indicate the
specific section of this chapter under which the variance or modification is
sought and state fully the grounds for the application and all the facts relied
upon by the petitioner. After due consideration, the Commission shall render a
decision which shall be:
      (1)   Recorded in the minutes of the Commission, which minutes shall
include the reasoning on which the variance or modifications was approved or
disapproved; and
      (2)   Transmitted to the subdivider in written form and to applicable
governmental units.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.013 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES. The use of a tract of land for agricultural purposes
only, which shall include farming, dairying, pasturing, agriculture,
horticulture, floriculture, viticulture and animal and poultry husbandry.
   BUILDING LINE. A line drawn parallel to a lot line any distance therefrom
equal to the depth of a minimum required yard for the zone in which the lot is
located and as established by
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A composite, or portion thereof, of the mapped and
written proposals and recommendations relative to the growth and development of
a given planning area which shall have been duly adopted by the Town Council.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land by the
general public, public utilities or certain persons for a specific purpose or
purposes not inconsistent with the general property rights of the owner.
   FEASIBILITY REPORT. A written report prepared by a professional engineer or
land surveyor pertaining to the suitability of a site for various types of
water and sewer systems; for drainage retention/detention and the subsoil
conditions for various methods of street construction.
   FINAL PLAT. A drawing, in final form, showing the subdivision plan and
containing all the information required by the Plan Commission for approval and
which, if approved, may be duly filed and recorded by the applicant in the
office of the County Recorder.
   LOT. A parcel or portion of land separated from other parcels or portions by
a description as on a subdivision, or record of survey map, or by metes and
bounds for purpose of sale, lease or separate use. In computing the number of
lots in a subdivision, any portion remaining to the owner and not intended for
sale shall, nevertheless, be considered a LOT.
   NO ACCESS EASEMENT. Public easement along a public right-of-way, across
which, the access to a property is not permitted.
   OFFICE OF THE RECORDER. The Recorder’s Office of St. Joseph County, Indiana.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, partnership or corporation, having sufficient
proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided, to commence and
maintain proceedings to subdivide the same under this chapter.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. Any guarantee which may be accepted in lieu of a
requirement that certain improvements be made before the Commission approves
the final plat, including, but not limited to, performance bonds, escrow
agreements or surety arrangements as approved as valid and enforceable by the
Town Council.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The map and supporting information indicating the proposed
layout of the subdivision which is presented to the Commission for
consideration and approval in accordance with the regulations of this chapter.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewage disposal system which is constructed, installed,
maintained, operated and owned by a municipality, taxing district established
for that purpose, or a utility under the jurisdiction of the Public Service
Commission of the state, but shall not include a county sewer installed for the
purpose of carrying surface water runoff and sub-soil drainage.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. A firm, corporation, municipal department or board duly
authorized to furnish or furnishing under regulation to the public electricity,
gas, steam, communication (including CATV), transportation, drainage, sewer and
water.
   PUBLIC WATER. A water supply system which is constructed, installed,
maintained, operated and owned by a municipality, taxing district established
for that purpose, or a utility under the jurisdiction of the Public Service
Commission of the state.
   REGISTERED ENGINEER. An engineer who is licensed in compliance with the laws
of the state.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A surveyor who is licensed in compliance with the
laws of the state.
   RESERVE STRIP. An area of land adjacent to a public right-of-way which is
retained in ownership by the subdivider for the purpose of denying access to
the adjacent land.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land appropriated for public use as a street,
highway, driveway, alley or walkway or for any drainage or public utility
purpose or other similar uses.
   SKETCH PLAN. A sketch preparatory to the preparation of the preliminary plat
or, in the case of a minor subdivision, of the final plat, to enable the
subdivider to save time and expense in reaching general agreement with the Plan
Commission as to the form of the final plat.
   STANDARDS. A specific and detailed listing of materials and construction
methods for subdivision improvements and standards of construction and design,
as adopted by the Town Council.
   STREET. The space or area between the lot lines, abutting upon a right-of-
way and designed as a way for vehicular traffic whether designated as an alley,
street, highway, throughway, freeway, expressway, road, avenue, boulevard,
land, place or however otherwise designated.
      (1)   ARTERIAL. Any roadway that provides for through traffic movements
between areas within the county and through the county.
      (2)   ARTERIAL, PRINCIPAL. Limited-access highways which carry large
volumes of interstate traffic and have more importance regionally than locally.
They often contain four or more moving lanes and permit a continuous high speed
traffic flow. These highways have a high order of design and construction
requirements.
      (3)   COLLECTOR. A street which carries traffic from local streets to
arterial streets, and may include the principal entrance street of residential
developments.
      (4)   CUL-DE-SAC. A dead-end street permanently terminated by a vehicle
turn-around.
      (5)   LOCAL. Any roadway, the primary function of which is to provide
direct access to residential, commercial, industrial or other abutting real
estate.
      (6)   LOOP STREET. Any street which has its origin and termination point
with the same street and forms a loop or “U” of various shapes or proportions.
      (7)   MARGINAL SERVICE ROAD. A minor road which is parallel and adjacent
to a thoroughfare, and which provides access to abutting properties and
protection from through traffic.
   SUBDIVIDER. The owner or the authorized agent of the owner, of the parcel of
land being subdivided.
(Ord. passed - -)
SUBDIVISION APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND APPROVAL PROCESS
Note: Whenever any subdivision of land is proposed, before any contract is made
for the sale of any part thereof, and before any permit for the erection of a
structure in such proposed subdivision shall be granted, the subdividing owner,
or his or her authorized agent, shall apply for and secure approval of such
proposed subdivision in accordance with the following procedure for either a
minor subdivision or a major subdivision.
§ 155.025 DETERMINATIONS FOR PLAT APPROVAL; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   In determining whether to grant approval of a subdivision plat, the
Plan Commission shall determine if the plat provides for:
      (1)   Establishment of minimum width, depth and area of lots within the
projected subdivision;
      (2)   Coordination of subdivision streets with existing and planned
streets and highways;
      (3)   Coordination with and extension of facilities included in the
Comprehensive Plan;
      (4)   Fair allocations of areas for streets, parks, schools, public and
semi-public buildings, homes, utilities, businesses and industry; and
      (5)   Distribution of population and traffic in a manner tending to
create conditions favorable to health, safety, convenience and the harmonious
development of the Town.
   (B)   As a condition of approval of a plat, the Plan Commission may specify:
      (1)   The manner in which streets shall be laid out, graded and improved;
      (2)   A provision for water, sewage and other utility services;
      (3)   A provision for schools;
      (4)   A provision for essential municipal services; and
      (5)   A provision for recreational facilities.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.026 REVIEW PROCEDURE; PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The Plan Commission shall review any subdivision of a parcel of land and
determine if the parcel is in conformity with the Comprehensive Plan.
   (A)   The person desiring approval of a plat shall submit to the Plan
Commission a written application for preliminary plat approval. (See §
155.096 of this chapter for a sample application.)
   (B)   The Commission shall, upon receiving an application for preliminary
plat approval, review the plat along with the accompanying exhibits. If it is
determined that the requirements and standards of this chapter have been
substantially met, the Commission shall docket a date for hearing, for the next
Commission meeting, notify the applicant and give notice of public hearing as
required by law. If the Commission determines that the preliminary plat does
not meet the requirements and standards have not been substantially v met, the
application for preliminary plat approval shall not be docketed for hearing,
but immediately returned to the subdivider with reasons for disapproval.
   (C)   Following the public hearing, the Commission may then approve the
preliminary plat, approve subject to conditions or request additional
information on specific technical matters, or disapprove it. The Commission may
require such changes or revisions as are deemed necessary in the interest and
needs of the community.
   (D)   Approval of a preliminary plat shall not constitute approval of a
final plat. Rather, it shall be deemed an expression of approval to the layout
submitted on the preliminary plat, as a guide to the preparation of the final
plat. Approval of the preliminary plat will terminate two years after the date
of approval unless further extended by the Commission upon written request of
the subdivider.
   (E)   Upon approval of the preliminary plat, the Commission will indicate
upon each copy that it has been approved. One copy shall be returned to the
subdivider along with a written statement indicating the action taken by the
Commission. If approved with conditions, a written copy of the conditions shall
accompany each copy of the approved plat.
      (1)   If disapproved, the Commission shall return to the subdivider one
copy of the plat marked “Disapproved by the Walkerton Plan Commission”, along
with a written statement indicating the reason or reasons for its disapproval.
      (2)   If the disapproval is based on reasons which can be corrected by
the subdivider, such changes may be made by the subdivider and the preliminary
plat returned to the Plan Commission for reconsideration.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.027 REVIEW PROCEDURE; FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The Commission shall, upon the filing of an application for final plat
approval, review the final plat along with the accompanying data and determine
whether or not the final plat meets all minimum requirements and standards of
this chapter and of all other applicable ordinances of the Town. The Commission
shall then take one of the following actions on the final plat within 30 days
after its submission or a mutually agreed extension. (See §
155.097 of this chapter for a sample application.)
      (1)   If the Commission determines that upon the satisfactory completion
of one or more specified conditions, consistent with the requirements,
standards, and specifications of this chapter, said final plat would comply
with the terms of this chapter, the Commission may give conditional approval to
said plat. Conditional approval of a final plat may include a construction
agreement which is acceptable to the Commission and would permit the subdivider
to proceed with the installation of improvements prior to recording. Written
notice of such conditional approval shall constitute formal authorization to
the subdivider to construct and install all or a part of the required
improvements, subject to inspection and acceptance procedures required by this
chapter. The subdivider shall furnish sufficient evidence to the Commission of
the satisfactory completion of such conditions before said plat will be deemed
“final approval for record”.
      (2)   The Commission shall approve the final plat for record only after
it has determined that the final plat meets the minimum requirements of this
chapter and all applicable ordinances in the Town and that sufficient financial
guarantees have been submitted in accordance with this chapter.
      (3)   Should the Commission decide to disapprove the plat, written notice
of such action, together with reasons therefor, shall be transmitted to the
subdivider. Such action shall also be entered on the official records of the
Commission; provided, however, that, nothing contained therein shall prejudice
the subdivider’s ability to make reapplication for final plat approval
according to the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon approval of the final plat, the Commission shall indicate upon
each copy that it has been approved. One copy shall be returned to the
subdivider, along with the written statement indicating the action taken by the
Commission. If approved with conditions, a written copy of the conditions shall
accompany each copy of the approved final plat. (See §
155.089 of this chapter for a sample approval.)
   (C)   Final approval of a plat by the Commission shall not be construed as
an acceptance by the public of the offer of dedication, of any street
improvement, utility improvement or open space improvement, within such areas
shown upon the plat unless such acceptance is endorsed by the Town Council upon
the original tracing of the final plat.
   (D)   After the Commission has granted final approval of the plat for
record, the officers shall affix their signatures to the original tracing and
the subdivider shall record the plat with the Recorder of the county within
three months. If not recorded within this time, the approval shall be null and
void.
   (E)   The subdivider shall pay the recording fee, and file with the Plan
Commission four prints of the approved final plat, including restrictive
covenants, as recorded. One reproducible print of the final plat, as recorded,
shall be filed and retained in the office of the County Surveyor. Until such
prints have been so filed, no building permit, shall be issued for any lot
shown upon said plat.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.028 MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   A parcel of land that was in single ownership on the effective date of this
chapter may be divided, as a minor subdivision, into not more than five lots,
including the balance of the original tract as one of the five. The balance of
the original tract, if any, or of any of the lots created, shall be further
divided only as a major subdivision. A minor subdivision shall not involve the
creation of any new street.
   (A)   Sketch plan or preliminary plan. Prior to the submission of the actual
plat, the subdivider is encouraged to submit a sketch plan and consult
informally with the Plan Commission. This will enable the subdivider to become
familiar with the general requirements and conditions affecting the subdivision
and avoid unnecessary revisions. The sketch plan should be in a tentative form
with sufficient detail for informal review and comments. A preliminary plan,
showing greater detail may also be used for the initial meeting with the Plan
Commission.
   (B)   Final subdivision plat requirements.
      (1)   An original ink drawing on 24-inch by 36-inch vellum, linen or
Mylar film at a scale of one inch equals 50 feet or one inch equals 100 feet.
Five copies shall be submitted to the Plan Commission. The drawing shall show
the following:
         (a)   Name of the proposed subdivision;
         (b)   Complete legal description of the subdivision which shall
include section, township,
And range;
         (c)   Lot dimensions in feet and hundredths thereof, angles and/or
bearings expressed in degrees, minutes and seconds;
         (d)   Lot numbers;
         (e)   Dimensioned building setback lines;
         (f)   Easements dimensioned and labeled as for their specific uses;
         (g)   All right-of-ways lines, widths of existing right-of-way and
additional right-of-way required for dedication;
         (h)   Name, address, seal and certification of the registered land
surveyor preparing or certifying the subdivision;
         (i)   Deed of dedication;
         (j)   Owner’s certification;
         (k)   Notarization and seal; and
         (l)   Scale, graphic bar scale, north point and date.
      (2)   Supporting data and drawing(s) on a sheet 24 inches by 36 inches,
at a scale not less than one inch equals 100 feet required:
         (a)   The legal description and tract boundary drawing of the entire
property which is being subdivided;
         (b)   Physical features such as wooded areas, swamps, wet lands and
marshes;
         (c)   Existing topographic contours at vertical intervals of five feet
or less from available data. United States Geological Survey data may be used;
         (d)   Future access plan for the entire property which is being
subdivided, if applicable;
         (e)   Adjacent road(s), widths of rights-of-way, widths of improved
roadway surface and the nearest major intersection;
         (f)   Soil information from the County Soil and Water Conservation
District;
         (g)   Scale, graphic bar scale, north point and date;
         (h)   Name and address of subdivider;
         (i)   Name and address of registered land surveyor;
         (j)   Source of water supply and sewerage disposal indicated; and
         (k)   Proof of ownership of the property to be subdivided.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.029 MAJOR SUBDIVISION.
   A parcel of land that was in a single ownership on the effective date of
this chapter shall be divided as a major subdivision if it contains six or more
lots, including the balance of the original tract counting as one lot. Further,
a major subdivision shall be required if a parcel was previously divided as a
minor subdivision and is being further divided, or if new street(s) are being
created.
   (A)   Sketch plan. Prior to the submission of a preliminary subdivision
plat, the subdivider is encouraged to submit a sketch plan and a soils report
and consult informally with the Plan Commission. This will enable the
subdivider to become familiar with the general requirements and conditions
which might affect the subdivision and thus avoid unnecessary revisions. The
sketch plan should be in a tentative form with sufficient detail provided for
review and comments.
   (B)   Preliminary plat. A preliminary plat and an application shall be
submitted to the Plan Commission for a major subdivision. The preliminary plat
shall be on a 24-inch by 36-inch sheet and at a scale of adequate size to be
clearly legible and in no case less than one inch equals 100 feet. The
following information shall be provided on the plat or as supporting data: (See
§
155.096 of this chapter for a sample application.)
      (1)   The parcel proposed for subdividing encompassing all contiguous
parcels of property owned by or under the control of the subdivider;
      (2)   Proposed name of subdivision;
      (3)   Complete legal description including section, range, township,
county and Town;
      (4)   Name and address of subdivider;
      (5)   Name, address and registration number of surveyor;
      (6)   Scale, graphic bar scale, north point and date;
      (7)   Boundary line of subdivision;
      (8)   Existing zoning of proposed subdivision;
      (9)   Existing topographic, contours at vertical intervals of five feet
or less. United States Geological Survey data may be used;
      (10)   All existing permanent features, either natural or manmade that
may influence the design of the subdivision, such as watercourses, tree groves,
swamps, outstanding natural topographic features, power transmission towers,
sewers, water mains, utility lines and fire hydrants. Where underground
utilities exist within or adjacent to the tract, the approximate location, size
and direction of flow shall be indicated;
      (11)   Location, width and names of all existing or prior platted
streets, utility rights-of-way, permanent easements, section and corporate
lines, on or within 200 feet of the subdivision;
      (12)   The layout of all proposed and existing lots with appropriate
dimensions including the minimum lot area in square feet for the smallest lot
(s) in the subdivision and the proposed front yard setback lines;
      (13)   Additional dedication proposed for existing roadways;
      (14)   Street layout, proposed right-of-way, cross-sections of roadways,
proposed easements dimensioned and the specific use indicated;
      (15)   Proposed common areas for subdivision property owners use;
proposed areas intended for dedication for public use;
      (16)   A soils report from the County Soil and Water Conservation
District, indicating the degree of limitation on the soil of the proposed
subdivision;
      (17)   Existing street pattern for a one-half mile area adjacent to the
subdivision and the manner in which the streets within the proposed subdivision
can be tied in with existing streets;
      (18)   A drainage plan showing the natural watercourse, marshes and the
like; existing drainage facilities, culverts and the like; proposed contours
and subdivision grading plan; and the proposed drainage plan for the
subdivision and analysis of existing drainage facilities to nearest
watercourse, showing culverts, retention ponds and the like;
      (19)   An engineering feasibility report including the following:
         (a)   The feasibility of connecting to an existing sewerage system and
water supply. This portion of the study shall include the distance to the
nearest public sewer, its capacity and present load, and its capacity to handle
the additional sewage load created by the subdivision. The same information
shall be submitted for water supply; and
         (b)   A study of the storm water drainage for the area, a method of
dispersion or retention and adequacy of downstream facilities. This study shall
give consideration to both water entering the subdivision from adjacent land
and water within the boundaries of the subdivision.
      (20)   A preliminary engineering report on the type of street
construction, all in accordance with the specifications and standards of this
chapter.
   (C)   Final plat.
      (1)   Application for the final approval of a subdivision plat shall not
be filed until the preliminary plat and supporting data has received final Plan
Commission action and the preliminary plat amended in accordance with and to
meet all Plan Commission requirements. (See §
155.097 for a sample form.)
      (2)   If a subdivision is to be constructed in phases, the subdivider may
request final plat approval for all or any portion of the approved preliminary
plat; provided, however, that, submission of a final plat covering only a
portion of the area contained in the approved preliminary plat may be permitted
only after consideration of the effect of the continuity of roads, utilities
and services.
      (3)   The subdivider shall submit the original final ink drawing on 24-
inch by 36-inch vellum, linen or Mylar film at a scale no less than one inch
equals 100 feet. The final plat shall include:
         (a)   Name of subdivision;
         (b)   Location by section, township, range, county and Town, and a
complete legal description of the property being platted;
         (c)   The name and certification of land surveyor preparing or
certifying the plat (§
155.085 of this chapter);
         (d)   Scale show, graphically and numerically, date and north point;
         (e)   Boundary of plat, based on an accurate traverse, with angular
and lineal dimensions;
         (f)   Exact location, width and name of all streets within and
adjoining the plat, and the exact location and width of all alleys and
crosswalks within the plat;
         (g)   True angles and distances to the nearest established street
lines or official monuments, which shall be accurately described in the plat.
Also the locations of the subdivision cornerpoints and the location at the
elevation benchmarks;
         (h)   Municipal, township, county or section lines, or previously
platted land accurately tied to the lines of the subdivision by distances and
angles;
         (i)   Radius angle of intersection, tangent length, length of curve,
P.C.s and P.T.s, radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent
bearings and length of all arcs;
         (j)   All easements for rights-of-way provided for public services and
utilities;
         (k)   All lot numbers and lines with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths;
         (l)   Accurate location of all monuments;
         (m)   Accurate outlines of any area other than public ways, to be
dedicated or reserved for public or semi-public use, with the purposes
indicated thereon; and for any areas to be reserved for use of all property
owners;
         (n)   Building setbacks, accurately shown with dimensions which are
not in conflict with
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances;
         (o)   Acknowledgment, by owner, as required by law of the adoption of
the plat and the dedication of streets, or other public areas, and utility and
drainage easements (§
155.087 of this chapter);
         (p)   Each final plat submitted to the Commission for approval shall
carry a certificate of ownership signed by the owner (§
155.086 of this chapter);
         (q)   A notarized statement indicating that the applicant is the owner
of the land to be subdivided and that the subdivision shown on the recording
plat is made with his or their free consent (§
155.086 of this chapter);
         (r)   Proper form for the acceptance of dedications by the Town
Council (§
155.088 of this chapter);
         (s)   Proper form for the approval of the Plan Commission (§
155.089 of this chapter); and
         (t)   Restrictive covenants regulating the use and development of the
lots may be lettered on the final plat or made a part thereof, subject to the
approval of the Commission.
   (D)   Financial guarantees.
      (1)   Financial guarantees shall be prerequisite to the Plan Commission
action on the application for final plat approval. The Commission shall approve
the final plat for record only after notice has been received from the Town
Council that there has been filed with and approved by said Town Council one of
the following:
         (a)   1.   A certification to the effect that the streets, sewers,
water, monuments and other utilities and facilities that have been required as
a precedent to approval have been accepted for maintenance, and have been
graded, improved and installed in accordance with specifications of this
chapter (§
155.094 of this chapter); and
            2.   Acceptance of said improvements is conditional and is based
upon the posting of a maintenance bond (§
155.092 of this chapter) with said Town Council, the period of time to be
determined by said Town Council, but not less than one year, with the
subdivider or some other person satisfactory to the Town Council as principal,
which shall:
               a.   Run to the Town;
               b.   Be in an amount equal to 25% of the cost, as estimated by
the Town Council, of all improvements and installations as required by this
chapter;
               c.   Be with surety satisfactory to the Town Council;
               d.   Warrant the workmanship and all materials used in the
construction, installation and completion of said improvements, and
installations to be of good quality and have been constructed and completed in
a workmanlike manner in accordance with the standards, specifications and
requirements of this chapter and the satisfactory plans and specifications
therefor submitted and satisfactory to the Plan Commission and the Town
Council; and
               e.   Provide that for a period of not less than three years
after said installations and improvements have been completed or are accepted
for public maintenance by the Town Council, the applicant will at his own
expense make all repairs to said improvements and installations, or the
foundations thereof, which may become necessary by reason of improper
workmanship or materials, but not including damage to said improvements and
installations resulting from forces or circumstances beyond the control of said
applicant or occasioned by the inadequacy of the standards, specifications or
requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   A performance bond (§
155.090 of this chapter) is posted with the Town Council:
            1.   Run to the Town Council;
            2.   Be in an amount equal to 100% of the cost, as estimated by the
Town Council, of all improvements and installations as required by this
chapter, excluding, however, the cost of any said required improvements and
installations which have been constructed, installed and completed in
compliance with the requirements of this chapter prior to the providing of this
bond and for which sufficient written proof of such construction, installations
and completion has been furnished the Town Council;
            3.   Be with surety satisfactory to the Town Council; and
            4.   Run until and terminate 60 days after the filing with the
Commission of the completion affidavit obtained from the Board of County
Commissioners.
         (c)   Cash bond or other negotiable securities acceptable and assigned
to the Town Council is posted with said Town Council in lieu of the performance
bond.
      (2)   Any funds received from the financial guarantees required by this
chapter shall be used only for the purposes of making the improvements,
installations or repair for which said guarantees were provided, in accordance
with the standards specifications and requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Upon the acceptance of said improvements and installations by the
Town Council, the applicant shall obtain a completion affidavit, from said Town
Council stating that the required improvements and installations have been
installed in compliance with the specifications of this chapter and have been
accepted for public maintenance by said Town Council, subject to the terms of
the maintenance bond provided by the applicant, and shall file said completion
affidavit with the Town Council.
(Ord. passed - -)
DESIGN PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS
§ 155.040 DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   In addition to the Plan Commission determinations for plat approval
indicated in §
155.025 of this chapter, it shall further determine if the plat conforms to the
principles and standards of this chapter, which shall be deemed as minimal; and
whenever the applicable requirements are higher or more restrictive, those
requirements shall prevail.
   (B)   The following considerations shall be determined in reviewing a
proposed plat.
      (1)   In the subdividing of land, due regard shall be shown all natural
features, such as tree growth, watercourse or similar conditions, which if
preserved, will add to the attractiveness and value of the development.
      (2)   Consideration shall be given to the prevention of air and stream
pollution and the elimination of any other blighting characteristics. The
layout of the subdivision shall be of such a nature as to protect the health,
safety and general welfare of the Town and its residents.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.041 PRINCIPLES OF STREET DESIGN.
   The subdivider shall be guided by the following principles in laying out the
street system within the subdivision.
   (A)   All parcels shall have adequate vehicular and pedestrian access.
   (B)   Street systems shall be designed to minimize through traffic movement,
however, connections into and from adjacent areas may be required where it will
not substantially increase through traffic. The design shall provide reasonable
direct access to the primary circulation system but not conflict with the
efficiency of bordering arterial routes.
   (C)   To function effectively and safely, the circulation system within a
subdivision should be designed with the least amount of interruptions possible
and shall clearly relate to their local function, designed to discourage
excessive speeds and minimize pedestrian-vehicular points of conflict.
   (D)   Local streets shall be related to topography, minimizing space devoted
to streets and also the number of intersections.
   (E)   All dedicated rights-of-way shall conform to the following minimum
dimensions:
Arterial streets        120 feet
Crosswalks              10 feet
Cul-de-sacs             50 feet*
Local streets           50 feet
Major collector streets 100 feet
Minor collector streets 70 feet
Utility easements       15 feet
NOTES TO TABLE:
* Radius
 
   (F)   The following criteria in street design shall be observed in laying
out streets in a new subdivision.
      (1)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall not
be permitted. (See Illustration 1.)
      (2)   All streets shall intersect at 90 degrees whenever possible for a
minimum distance of 100 feet; however, in no instance shall they intersect at
less than 80 degrees onto arterial or collector streets or less than 50 degrees
onto local streets. (See Illustration 2.)
      (3)   To ensure adequate site distances, when the street centerlines
deflect more than ten degrees, connections shall be made by horizontal curves.
The minimum centerline radius for local residential streets shall be 200 feet
and for all other residential streets shall be 400 feet. (See Illustration 3.)
      (4)   A tangent, of at least 100 feet, shall be introduced between
reversed curves on local and collector streets. (See Illustration 4.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3e82591aa4b118acd90b56be9176b660163681a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1581.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3e82591aa4b118acd90b56be9176b660163681a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1583.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3e82591aa4b118acd90b56be9176b660163681a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1585.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3e82591aa4b118acd90b56be9176b660163681a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1587.jpg]
 
      (5)   Clear visibility, measured along the centerline of the street,
shall be provided for at least 600 feet on all arterial streets, 400 feet on
collector streets and at least 200 feet on all local streets.
      (6)   The maximum vertical grade for arterial streets shall not exceed
7.5%, for collector streets shall not exceed 10% and for local streets shall
not exceed 12%; provided, however, that, within 200 feet of a street or railway
intersection a maximum grade permitted shall be 50% of the maximum grade
specification.
      (7)   The maximum length cul-de-sac street shall be 500 feet measured
along the centerline from the intersection at origin through the center of the
circle to the end of the right-of-way. Each cul-de-sac shall have a terminus of
nearly circular shape with a minimum right-of-way diameter of 100 feet for
residential use and 120 feet for industrial use, unless the Plan Commission
approves an equally safe and convenient form of space instead of the required
turning circle.
   (G)   Only one street, driveway or point of vehicle access shall be
permitted from a subdivision onto a major collector street or an arterial
street or road. Two or more streets, driveways or points of vehicle access may
be permitted by the Plan Commission only if they are definitely needed to
improve the safety and traffic circulation in the area.
   (H)   Half streets shall be prohibited.
   (I)   No street names may be used which will duplicate, or be confused with
names of existing streets. Streets which are logical extensions or
continuations of existing streets shall bear the names of such existing
streets.
   (J)   Rights-of-way for proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary
lines of the proposed subdivision so that a connection can be made to all
adjacent properties unless such extension is not feasible because of topography
or other physical conditions, or unless, in the opinion of the Plan Commission,
such extension is not necessary or desirable for the coordination with existing
streets for the most advantageous development of adjacent tracts. No
subdivision shall be designed so as to create or perpetuate the land-locking of
adjacent undeveloped land.
   (K)   A temporarily dead-ended street shall be permitted only when a street
is proposed and should logically be extended but is not yet constructed. An
adequate easement for a turn-around shall be provided for any such temporary
dead-end street which extends 200 feet or more in length. Such easement shall
be automatically vacated to abutting property owners when said dead-ended
street is extended.
   (L)   In subdivisions that adjoin or include existing streets that do not
conform to the minimum right-of-way dimensions as established by this chapter,
the subdivider shall dedicate additional width along either one or both sides
of such streets of inadequate width so as to bring them up to standards,
provided the area to be used for widening is owned by the subdivider or under
his or her control.
   (M)   No driveway shall be located within 70 feet of the intersection of two
street lines.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.042 BLOCK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Block length and width shall be such as to accommodate and provide for
convenient access, circulation control and safety of traffic. Blocks that are
unreasonably large or small will not be approved.
   (B)   The maximum block length shall be 1,000 feet. The Plan Commission may
require pedestrian crosswalks at a point useful to facilitate pedestrian
circulation to a school, park, recreation area or significant neighborhood
destination.
   (C)   Residential blocks shall be of sufficient depth to accommodate two
tiers of lots of minimum depth, except where reverse frontage lots bordering a
freeway, arterial street or floodplain are used.
   (D)   The block must fit easily into the overall plan of the subdivision and
evidence consideration of lot planning, traffic flow and public areas.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.043 LOT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Lot arrangement shall be such that there will be no foreseeable
difficulties, for reasons of topography or other conditions, in securing
building permits to build on all lots in compliance with Ch. 156 of this code
of ordinances and providing driveway access to buildings on such lots from an
approved street.
   (B)   Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards of
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances. Lot size, width, depth and shape, grade,
location and orientation shall be in proper relation to street and block design
and to existing and proposed topographical conditions.
   (C)   Double frontage and reversed frontage lots shall be avoided except
where necessary to provide separation of residential development from traffic
arterials or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
   (D)   A subdivider shall be required to furnish and install fences wherever
the Plan Commission determines a hazardous condition may exist. The type of
fencing material and height shall be noted on the final plat.
   (E)   A no-access screen planting buffer strip of ten feet shall be provided
along the lot lines adjoining an adverse influence or an arterial street or
highway, if required by the Plan Commission. This requirement shall be noted on
the final plat.
   (F)   Corner lots shall be sufficiently larger than interior lots to allow
maintenance of setback lines on both streets. Side lines of lots shall be
approximately at right angles or radial to the street line.
   (G)   Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage away from
all buildings and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the general
storm drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid
concentration of storm drainage water from each lot to adjacent lots.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.044 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Adequate areas of suitable size and location shall be allocated for
utility easements. As a general principle, such easements shall be at least 15
feet in width, and shall provide reasonable continuity from block to block.
They shall be located at rear lot lines and along side and front lines only
when deemed necessary.
   (B)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channel or stream, adequate areas for storm water or drainage easements, shall
be allocated for the purpose of widening, deepening, sloping, improving or
protecting said watercourses in accordance with the requirements of the County
Drainage Board.
   (C)   Whenever practicable, the subdivider shall be encouraged to design for
the placement of utility lines underground, following the required standards
and specifications established by each utility company. The location of each
underground utility system shall be shown by appropriate easement lines on the
proposed plat.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.045 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Commercial and industrial subdivisions face unique problems of lot
design not normally encountered in residential subdivisions.
   (B)   For this reason, the emphasis of the Plan Commission consideration
shall be upon street layout and block arrangement. The procedural requirements
shall be as outlined in this chapter, however, the subdivider need show only
two lots along with the street and block layout. As lots are sized to the
specifications of the prospective purchaser, the owner shall submit an
amendment to the approved recorded subdivision plat, for consideration by the
Plan Commission. Regular procedural requirements of the Plan Commission
following the receipt of a final subdivision plat shall then apply. Streets
that have been built to the specifications of previously approved plans on the
approved plat, shall not have to be rebuilt because of the adoption of new
criteria by the Town. This shall also apply to storm drainage facilities within
said subdivision unless runoff characteristics have been changed by the newly
proposed improvements or unauthorized existing improvements.
   (C)   A nonresidential subdivision shall also be subject to all the
requirements of site plan approval set forth in
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances. Site plan approval and nonresidential
subdivision plat approval may proceed simultaneously at the discretion of the
Planning Commission. A non-residential subdivision shall be subject to all the
requirements of these regulations, as well as such additional standards
required by the Planning Commission, and shall conform to the proposed land use
and standards established in the Comprehensive Plan, Official Map and
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   In addition to the principles and standards in these regulations,
which are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the applicant shall
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commission that the street, parcel and
block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the uses anticipated and
takes into account other uses in the vicinity. The following principles and
standards shall be observed.
      (1)   Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and
dimensions to the types of industrial development anticipated.
      (2)   Street rights-of-way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate
the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated thereupon.
      (3)   Special requirements may be imposed by the Plan Commission with
respect to street, curb, gutter and sidewalk design and construction.
      (4)   Special requirements may be imposed by the Plan Commission with
respect to the installation of public utilities, including water, sewer and
storm water drainage.
      (5)   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas
from potential nuisance from a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision,
including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing up on existing or
potential residential development and provisions for a permanently landscaped
buffer strip when necessary.
      (6)   Streets carrying non-residential traffic, especially truck traffic,
shall not normally be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or
potential residential areas.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.046 RESERVE STRIPS.
   The creation of reserve strips shall not be permitted adjacent to a proposed
street in such a manner as to deny access from adjacent property to such
street.
(Ord. passed - -)
SPECIFICATIONS; IMPROVEMENTS AND INSTALLATIONS
§ 155.060 IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Subdivision improvements shall be designed, furnished and installed by
the subdivider in accordance with the requirements of this chapter, state,
county and Town specifications, when applicable. The higher or more restrictive
requirements shall prevail.
   (B)   No subdivision plat shall be approved by the Plan Commission unless
the following improvements have been completed as herein specified and
required, or the subdivider provides a financial guarantee therefor as
specified herein.
   (C)   (1)   After Commission approval of the preliminary plat and prior to
any construction in the subdivision, the subdivider shall submit copies of the
construction drawings for streets and drainage facilities for review by the
Town Council at least 45 days before construction is to begin.
      (2)   Supervision and inspection of construction of all required
improvements shall be under the direction of the Town Council.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.061 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Improvements for streets shall be performed to meet the following
minimum standards and requirements:
Paved Street Dimensions
Paved Street Dimensions
   Collector streets
      Radius at intersections   35 ft.
      Width with curb and gutter38 ft.
      Width without curb and gut26 ft.
   Local and cul-de-sac streets
      Radius at intersections   35 ft.
      Terminus diameter on cul-d100 ft.
      Width with curb and gutter28 ft.
      Width without curb and gut24 ft.
 
   (B)   At the intersection of a subdivision collector street with an arterial
or major collector street or road, the Commission may require the subdivider to
install deceleration and passing lanes along the arterial or collector street
in accordance with the graphical specifications shown on the following page in
Illustration 5.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3e82591aa4b118acd90b56be9176b660163681a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1589.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.062 PAVEMENT CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The minimum thickness of sub-base, base course and pavement shall be
as follows.
      (1)   Local and cul-de-sac streets.
         (a)   A six-inch plain concrete pavement on compacted sub-grade or an
equivalent balanced section as recommended by the Portland Cement Association;
         (b)   A three-inch hot asphalt concrete pavement on eight inches of
compacted aggregate base on a compacted sub-grade; or
         (c)   A deep-strength hot asphalt concrete design with minimum total
depth of seven and one-half inches on a compacted sub-grade.
      (2)   Collector streets.
         (a)   A six and one-half inch plain concrete pavement on compacted
sub-grade or an equivalent balanced section as recommended by the Portland
Cement Association;
         (b)   A three and one-half inch hot asphalt concrete pavement on 12
inches of compacted aggregate base on a compacted subgrade; or
         (c)   A deep strength hot asphalt concrete design with a minimum total
depth of nine and one-half inches on a compacted sub-grade.
   (B)   Higher standards than indicated in this section may be required by the
Town Council to provide adequately for unusual soil conditions, extra-ordinary
traffic volumes or other abnormal characteristics.
   (C)   All materials, mixtures and workmanship shall conform to the state’s
highway specifications.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.063 CURB AND GUTTER.
   (A)   Wherever a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to or in proximity of
other developed areas having curb and gutter, or when any proposed subdivision
contains more than three lots per acre of land platted into lots, the
subdivider shall provide curb and gutter in the proposed subdivision.
   (B)   Curb and gutter in residential areas may be approved roll type with
four-inch curb and 24-inch minimum width made of six-bag concrete; and shall be
six-inch vertical face in other areas and on arterial streets.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.064 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Wherever a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to or in proximity of
other developed areas having sidewalks, or when any proposed subdivision
contains more than three lots per acre of land platted into lots; the
subdivider shall provide sidewalks in the proposed subdivision.
   (B)   Sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide and four inches thick,
sloped one-fourth inch per foot toward the street and shall be located one foot
from the property line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3e82591aa4b118acd90b56be9176b660163681a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1591.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.065 ROADSIDE SWALES.
   Streets not having curb and gutter shall provide the following:
   (A)   Side ditch swales measuring 12 inches deep at a point five feet inside
the right-of-way line;
   (B)   A swale or culvert at all driveways sized according to the amount of
storm water flow;
   (C)   Culverts under the roadway where necessary. Size of culvert to be
according to amount of storm water flow, but not less than 12 inches. All
culverts shall extend at least five feet beyond either edge of the paved
roadway; and
   (D)   Relief of side ditches and swales along the roadway through the use of
off-street retention basins or existing public drainage channels.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.066 STREET IDENTIFICATION SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to provide and
install street identification signs at all street intersections within the sub
division prior to the construction of any permanent improvements other than
those specifically set forth by this chapter. Said signs and posts shall
conform to the following standards or be of a design approved by the Plan
Commission after appropriate consideration of future maintenance.
   (B)   Each sign post shall consist of a two-inch galvanized pipe ten feet
long weighing two pounds per foot.
   (C)   Each sign shall be of a metal double blade design, meeting current
state standards, mounted at the top of the post with the street name on both
sides at an elevation of seven feet above the paved street.
   (D)   All signs shall be located within the street right-of-way, but no
closer than six feet from the edge of the traveled portion of the street.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.067 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   A drainage system shall be designed and constructed by the subdivider
to provide for the proper drainage of the surface water of the subdivision and
the drainage area of which it is a part. The system shall be constructed and
installed in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the County
Surveyor.
   (B)   In designing a drainage system the subdivider shall be guided by the
following standards.
      (1)   All streets shall be provided with an adequate storm drainage
system consisting of curbs, gutters and storm sewers or side ditches and
culverts as determined by the Plan Commission.
      (2)   Street drainage shall serve as the primary drainage system and it
shall be designed to carry at least the street, adjacent land and house storm
water drainage.
      (3)   Whenever the evidence available to the Commission indicates the
natural surface drainage is inadequate, the subdivider shall provide the
subdivision with an adequate storm water sewer system. When the surface
drainage is adequate, easement for such surface drainage shall be provided.
      (4)   When topsoil has been removed from the surface of a lot on a slope
where erosion will cause a displacement of loose materials, the subdivider
shall be required to seed or provide other means to prevent the wash from
damaging adjacent property. The erosion control measures shall be in accordance
with standards and specifications on file in the County Soil and Water
Conservation District Office.
      (5)   In order to insure the maintenance of a properly designed and
installed drainage system, the following paragraphs shall be required as a
provision of the restrictive covenants of all final plats and shall be included
in all deeds written relative to said plats. The proposed owner shall sign and
such signed copy of this covenant shall be filed with the County Surveyor.
         (a)   Drainage swales (ditches along dedicated roadways and within the
right-of-way, or on dedicated drainage easements, are not to be altered, dug
out, filled in, tiled or otherwise changed without written permission of the
County Surveyor. Property owners must maintain these swales as sodded grassways
or other non-eroding surfaces. Water from roofs or parking areas must be
contained on the property long enough so that said drainage swales or ditches
will not be damaged by such water. Driveways may be constructed over these
swales or ditches only when appropriate sized culverts or other approved
structures have been permitted by the County Surveyor.
         (b)   Any property owner altering, changing or damaging these drainage
swales or ditches will be held responsible for such action and will be given
ten days’ notice by registered mail to repair said damage, after which time, if
no action is taken, the County Surveyor will cause such repairs to be
accomplished, and the bill for such repairs will be sent to the affected
property owners for immediate payment.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.068 SANITARY SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Sanitary sewer systems should be designed for the ultimate tributary
population. Due consideration should be given to current zoning regulations and
approved planning reports. Sewer capacities should be adequate to handle the
anticipated maximum hourly quantity of sewerage together with an adequate
allowance for infiltration and other extraneous flow.
   (B)   A sanitary sewer system shall be designed and constructed by the
subdivider. Sewers shall be installed to serve all lots, to grades and sizes
required by the Town Council. All plans shall be in accordance with local
regulations.
   (C)   A permanent sanitary sewerage collection system including all pipes
and manholes shall be provided and said collection system shall be connected
(extended to connect, if necessary) with an existing public sanitary sewerage
system.
   (D)   The diameter of sewers proposed shall not exceed the diameter of the
existing or proposed outlet and no public sewer shall be less than 12 inches in
diameter. All sewers shall be laid with straight alignment between manholes.
Manholes shall be installed at the end of each line; at all changes in grade,
size or alignment; at all intersections; and at distances not greater than 400
feet for sewers 15 inches and smaller, and 500 feet for sewers 18 inches in
diameter and larger.
   (E)   A minimum horizontal distance of ten feet shall be maintained between
parallel water and sewer lines. At points where sewers cross water mains, the
sewer shall be constructed of cast iron or encased in concrete for a distance
of ten feet in each direction from the crossing, measured perpendicular to the
water line. This will not be required when the water main is at least two feet
above the sewer.
   (F)   A subdivision plat shall not be considered for final approval until
improvement plans for a sewage system has been submitted. Final approval shall
not be given until said improvement plans have been approved by the Town
Council.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.069 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   A water distribution system shall be designed and constructed by the
subdivider to provide adequate water service for all lots in the proposed
subdivision. A subdivision plat shall not be considered for final approval
until improvement plans for a water system has been submitted.
   (B)   A permanent water distribution system including all pipes, fire
hydrants, valves and other appurtenances shall be provided, and said
distribution system shall be connected with an approved public water system in
accordance with approved plans designed to the specifications and in accordance
with local regulations.
   (C)   Fire hydrants shall be required for all subdivisions and shall be
located no further than 1,000 feet apart and within 500 feet of any structure
and shall be approved by the applicable protection unit. To eliminate future
street openings, all underground utilities for fire hydrants, together with the
fire hydrants themselves and all other supply improvements shall be installed
before any final paving of a street shown on the subdivision plat.
   (D)   No final plat approval shall be given until the improvement plans for
the water system have been approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.070 MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Monuments and markers shall be installed by the subdivider so that the
top thereof is three to six inches below the proposed finished grade adjoining
it, and the cross mark or other designation there shall coincide exactly with
the intersecting or other lines marked and designated. Permanent monuments
shall also contain elevation controls. Permanent concrete markers measuring six
inches by six inches by 30 inches with iron pipe cast in the center shall be
required at a minimum of at least two points on the exterior boundary of the
plat. United States, state, county or other official monuments may substitute
for the required two concrete monuments where they already exist and where
coordinates are provided for these existing monuments.
   (B)   Permanent markers consisting of pipes or steel rods not less than
three-fourths inch diameter and 30 inches in length shall be installed at:
      (1)   The intersection of all street and alley right-of-way lines within
the proposed plat.
      (2)   The beginning and ending of all curves in street right-of-way lines
including corner easements having a radius of 50 feet or less.
      (3)   All points where lot lines intersect street or alley right-of-way
lines.
      (4)   All angles formed by intersection of lot lines.
      (5)   All other lot corners not established by a monument.
      (6)   All points required to delineate the location or extent of
reservations, easements or dedications not otherwise defined.
   (C)   All United States, state, county or other official benchmarks,
monuments or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property shall be
preserved in precise position.
(Ord. passed - -)
APPLICATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND FORMS
§ 155.085 SURVEY CERTIFICATION.
 
COUNTY OF ST. JOSEPH      )
      ) SS:
STATE OF INDIANA      )
 
I,                                                  , hereby certify that I am a land surveyor registered in compliance with the laws of the State of Indiana; and
I do hereby further certify that I have surveyed the property described in the above caption and that I have subdivided the same into blocks and lots as shown on
the herein drawn plat. This plat correctly represents said survey and subdivision in every detail. Monuments shown are in place or will be installed as located in
accordance with the platting ordinance. All lot corners are marked with                          . Dimensions are in feet and decimal parts thereof.
 
DATED this                  day of                                       ,            .
 
                                                                                 
Signature
 
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.086 CERTIFICATE OF OWNERSHIP.
STATE OF INDIANA      )
               ) SS:
COUNTY OF ST. JOSEPH      )
                                                                      and                                                                          do hereby certify that we are
the owners of the property described in the above caption and that as such owners we have caused the said above described property to be surveyed and subdivided as shown on the
herein drawn plat as our own free and voluntary act and deed.
                                                                                                      
                              Signature
                                                                                                      
                              Signature
STATE OF INDIANA   )
   ) SS:
COUNTY OF ST. JOSEPH   )
 
I,                                                                , a Notary Public in and for said County and State, do hereby certify that
                                                                          and                                                          appeared before me this day in person and
acknowledged that they signed the above certificate as their own free and voluntary act and deed for the uses and purposes therein set forth.
 
Given under my hand and notarial seal this                      day of                                        ,          .
 
My Commission Expires:
                                       
                                                                                         
      Notary Public
                  A resident of                             County, IN
 
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.087 DEDICATION.
 
I (We), the, undersigned,                                                                                        , owner(s) of the real estate shown and described herein, do
hereby layoff, plat and subdivide said real estate in accordance with the within plat.
 
This subdivision shall be known and designated as                                                                       . All streets and alleys and public open spaces shown and
not heretofore dedicated are hereby dedicated to the public.
 
Front building setback lines are hereby established as shown on this plat, between which lines and property line of the streets there shall be erected or maintained no building
or structure. The strips of ground shown on this plat and marked “easement” are reserved for the use of the public utilities for the installation of water and sewer mains, poles,
ducts, lines and wires, drainage facilities, subject herein reserved. No permanent or other structures are to be erected or maintained upon said strips of land but owners of lots
in this subdivision shall take their title subject to the rights of the public utilities and to the rights of the owners of other lots in this subdivision.
                                                                                 
Signature
                                                                                 
Signature
 
STATE OF INDIANA      )
      ) SS:
COUNTY OF ST. JOSEPH      )
 
I,                                                                               , a Notary Public in and for said County and State, do hereby certify that
                                                                       and                                                             , personally known to me to be the same
persons whose names are subscribed to the above certificate appeared before me this day in person and acknowledged that they signed the above certificate as their own free and
voluntary act and deed for the uses and purposes therein set forth.
 
Given under my hand and notarial seal this                          day of                                          ,       .
 
My Commission Expires:
                                       
                                                                                         
      Notary Public
                  A resident of                             County, IN
 
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.088 ACCEPTANCE OF DEDICATIONS.
 
Be it resolved by the Walkerton Town Council, St. Joseph County, Indiana, that the dedications shown on this letter hereby approved and accepted this
                day of                                ,            .
 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
 
                                                                                 
 
                                                                                 
 
                                                                                 
WALKERTON TOWN COUNCIL
 
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.089 PLAN COMMISSION APPROVAL.
 
Approved by the Walkerton Plan Commission in accordance with the Subdivision Control Ordinance.
 
BY:                                                                                                                                                       
   President               Secretary
                                      ,          
 
Void unless recorded before                                     ,          .
 
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.090 PERFORMANCE BOND SAMPLE SURETY BOND.
STATE OF INDIANA      )
               ) SS:
COUNTY OF ST. JOSEPH      )
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that                                      of                                       , as principal and
                                                         as surety are held and firmly bound onto the Town of Walkerton, Indiana, and to all
contractors, sub-contractors, journeymen, cartmen, truckmen, workmen, laborers, mechanics and furnishers of materials jointly as their
interests occur in the sum of $                  , in current lawful money of the United States for which payment will and truly be made, we
bind ourselves, our heirs, successors and assigns in solido by these presents.
Dated and signed at                                        , this                    day of                                 ,        .
The conditions of this obligation are such that whereas the above named principal did, on the                             day of
                                               ,           , enter into a certain contract with the Walkerton Town Council to build or
construct streets, sidewalks, curbs and gutters, drainage and sewage facilities in accordance with plans and specifications prepared by
                                                                  and approved by the Town.
NOW, THEREFORE, if the aforesaid principal shall well and truly and faithfully perform said contract and comply with all its terms, covenants
and conditions according to its tenor and discharge all of said principal’s obligations thereunder and shall fully pay and discharge all of
said principal’s obligations to contractors, sub-contractors, journeymen, cartmen, truckmen, workmen, laborers, mechanics and furnishers of
materials employed and furnished in the execution of contract then this obligation shall be null and void; otherwise, to be and remain in full
force, effect and virtue.
In testimony whereof, we have hereunto set our hands in the presence of the two undersigned competent witnesses this day, month and year above
written.
                     BY:                                                                     
                        Attorney-in-Fact
                     WITNESSES:                                                       
                                                                                 
                                                                                                     
                     Signature of Subdivider
 
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.091 SAMPLE MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT FORM.
STATE OF INDIANA      )
                  ) SS:
COUNTY OF ST. JOSEPH   )
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this                     day of                                   ,            , by and between
(Name of Subdivider)  hereinafter designated as Owner and the Town of Walkerton herein represented by the Town Council.
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, the Owner has subdivided lots                   through                    ,  (Subdivision)  and has received approval and
acceptance from Walkerton for subdivision improvements constructed therein; and
WHEREAS, under the provisions of Sub-Paragraph                           of Article                                         of the
Subdivision Control Ordinance, the Owner is required to maintain certain improvements for a period of                      ;
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed by and between the Owner and the Town Council that the Owner hereby agrees that he will keep all fill
trenches, pipes, manhole structures and paved or unpaved surfaces constructed by him in  (Subdivision)  and will make such repairs to any
defect in materials or workmanship as may develop or be discovered when called upon to do so by the Town.
It is agreed that this Agreement shall be in full force and effect for a period of                 years from                            at
                    on this                    day of                                        ,          .
                                                                                                        
               (Name of Subdivider or Development Company)
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
               Town Council
               Witnesses:
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
 
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.092 SAMPLE MAINTENANCE BOND FORM.
STATE OF INDIANA      )
               ) SS:
COUNTY OF ST. JOSEPH      )
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that                                                      as principal and                        as surety, are
held firmly bound unto the Town of Walkerton, Indiana, in the sum of $               Dollars in lawful current money of the United States, for
which payment will and truly be made and we bind ourselves, our heirs, successors and assigns in solido by these presents.
Dated and signed at                                , Indiana, this                   day of                                  ,       .
The conditions of this obligation are such that whereas the above named principal did on the                              day of
                                 ,          , enter into a certain contract with the Town Board of Walkerton to maintain for a period of
                                         years from                                                      ,                 , the improvements in
                                                                   Subdivision and keep all fill trenches, pipes, manholes, structures and paved
or unpaved surfaces constructed by him in good condition and shall make such repairs to any defects in materials or workmanship as may develop or
be discovered when called upon to do so by the Town;
NOW, THEREFORE, the aforesaid principal shall well and truly and faithfully perform said contract and comply with all of its terms, covenants and
conditions according to its tenor, and discharge all of said principal’s obligations thereunder and shall fully pay and discharge all of said
principal’s obligations to                                                                     and this obligation shall be null and void;
otherwise, to be and remain in full force, effect and virtue.
In testimony whereof we have hereunto set our hands in the presence of the two undersigned competent witnesses this day, month and year above
written.
                                                                                                    
                  Attorney-in-Fact
                                                                                                    
                  Signature of Subdivider
   Witnesses:
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
 
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.093 SAMPLE AGREEMENT FORM FOR DEVELOPMENT OF SUBDIVISIONS.
STATE OF INDIANA      )
                  ) SS:
COUNTY OF ST. JOSEPH   )
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into this                  day of                                        ,         , by and between  (Name of
Subdivider)  hereinafter designated as Owner and the Town of Walkerton, herein represented by the Town Council.
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, the Owner owns and desires to develop lots                                          through                                  ,
(subdivision)  located in Walkerton, Indiana; and
WHEREAS, the final plat of lots                          through                         , inclusive,  (Subdivision)  will be given final approval
by the Walkerton Plan Commission upon Owner posting a surety bond insuring the satisfactory installation and construction of the following
improvements:
(describe improvements)
 
as shown on the plat prepared by                                                                   , Land Surveyor, attached hereto and made a part
hereof, according to the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the Owner now desires final approval of the plat of  (Subdivision)  prior to the installation and constructs of the above described
improvements, which improvements will be installed and constructed at Owner’s sole cost and expense;
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed by and between the Owner and the Town of Walkerton, that for and in consideration of the final approval of lots
               through                , inclusive  (Subdivision)  for the sale of lots therein without the above described improvements more
particularly shown on the attached plan profile, having been first completed and approved. Owner binds and obligates himself within
                  months from date hereof
to install and construct the described improvements in accordance with plans prepared by                                         , Land Surveyor,
which plans meet the requirements of the Walkerton Subdivision Control Ordinance, said plans being attached hereto and made a part hereof.
The Owner, in order to further insure faithful performance of said obligation, has executed a  (surety bond, cashier’s check or certified check)
in the amount of $                 which bond is attached hereto and made a part hereof to guarantee the installation and construction of the
following improvements:
(describe improvements)
 
according to plans and specifications therefor. Said  (bond or check)  may be cancelled only after said work has been completed, inspected and
approved by written acceptance of the Walkerton Town Council.
The above described improvements shall be constructed under the supervision of                               in full compliance with the
specifications and requirements of the Town of Walkerton and, when completed,                                            shall furnish the Town
with a certificate of a satisfactory completion.
It is further understood by and between the parties of this Agreement that in the event said improvements are not constructed within
                   months from date hereof, the Town of Walkerton shall have and is hereby granted the right, without putting the said owner in
default, to ipso facto call upon the said surety to complete the improvements hereinabove described and in default of the surety promptly causing
such improvements to be constructed according to the plans and specifications therefor, the Town of Walkerton shall have the right to cause the
improvements to be made and to call upon said surety for payment of all costs and expenses incurred in the construction thereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, these presents have been signed in the presence of the undersigned competent witnesses at
                                                   on this                     day of                                       ,              .
Witnesses               (Name of Subdivider or Development Company)
                                                                    BY                                                                           
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                                                                                                   
                  Town Council
ATTEST:
 
BY                                                             
Clerk-Treasurer
 
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.094 COMPLETION AFFIDAVIT.
 
This is to certify:
 
 
A. That the following improvements designed and engineered for                              Subdivision are complete and that inspections and reports. show them
to be in accordance with the specifications and requirements of the Walkerton Subdivision Ordinance;
 
B. That surety has been posted to guarantee all materials and workmanship and to guarantee repair of any damages that may be inflicted upon the improvements
listed in the course of completion of the Subdivision; and
 
C. That the Walkerton Town Council have accepted these improvements and will henceforth be responsible for all maintenance by agreement with the Subdivider.
 
 
(List Improvements)
 
 
Dated this                              day of                                               ,              .
 
 
                                                                                 
 
                                                                                 
 
                                                                                 
 
                                                                                 
 
                                                                                 
Town Council
 
ATTEST:
 
BY                                                             
Clerk-Treasurer
 
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.095 MINOR SUBDIVISION APPLICATION.
 
APPLICATION FOR MINOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL (Town of Walkerton, Indiana)
 
(FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY)         APPLICATION NO.                                                   
Date Filed                                                                                                   
Plan Commission Action on Minor Subdivision                                               
Date Applicant Notified of Action                                                                  
Date Drawing Recorded                                                                                
I (we) do hereby apply for Minor Subdivision approval of the following described property in accordance with the provisions of the Town of Walkerton, Indiana, Subdivision Ordinance.
 
1.   Name of Subdivision                                                                                                              
Section                                 Township                                    Range                                 
Area (acres)                          No. of Lots                                 Avg. Size                            
Number of feet of street right-of-ways to be dedicated                                                                
 
2.   Name of property owner(s)                                                                                                     
Address                                                                                  Phone                                 
 
3.   Name of applicant                                                                                                                  
(If other than owner)
Address                                                                                  Phone                                 
 
4.   Name of Land Surveyor preparing the Plat                                                                               
Address                                                                                  Phone                                 
 
5.   Legal description of property                                                                                                      
 
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.096 PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION APPLICATION.
 
APPLICATION FOR PRELIMINARY APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION (Town of Walkerton, Indiana)
 
(FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY)      
 
Date Filed                                                             APPLICATION NO.                                                   
Date of Public Hearing                                                                                 
Plan Commission Action on Preliminary                                                        
Date Applicant Notified of Action                                                                  
 
I (we) do hereby apply for preliminary approval of the following described property in accordance with the provisions of the Town of Walkerton, Indiana, Subdivision Ordinance.
1.   Name of Subdivision                                                                                                              
Section                                 Township                                    Range                                 
Area (acres)                          No. of Lots                                 Avg. Size                            
Number of feet of new streets proposed                                                                                    
2.   Name of property owner(s)                                                                                                     
Address                                                                                  Phone                                 
 
3.   Name of applicant                                                                                                                  
(If other than owner)
Address                                                                                  Phone                                 
 
4.   Name of Land Surveyor preparing the Plat                                                                               
Address                                                                                  Phone                                 
 
5.   Legal description of property                                                                                                      
 
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.097 FINAL SUBDIVISION APPLICATION.
 
APPLICATION FOR FINAL APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION (Town of Walkerton, Indiana)
 
(FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY)               APPLICATION NO.                                                   
 
Date Filed                                                                                                  
Date of Preliminary Approval                                                                       
Plan Commission Action on Final Subdivision                                                 
Date Applicant Notified of Action                                                                  
Date Drawing Recorded                                                                                
 
I (we) do hereby apply for final approval of the following described property in accordance with the provisions of the Town of Walkerton, Indiana, Subdivision Ordinance.
 
1.   Name of Subdivision                                                                                                              
Section                                 Township                                    Range                                 
Area (acres)                          No. of Lots                                 Avg. Size                            
Number of feet of new streets to be dedicated                                                                            
 
2.   Name of property owner(s)                                                                                                     
Address                                                                                  Phone                                 
 
3.   Name of applicant                                                                                                                  
(If other than owner)
Address                                                                                  Phone                                 
 
4.   Name of Land Surveyor preparing the Plat                                                                               
Address                                                                                  Phone                                 
 
5.   Legal description of property                                                                                                      
 
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.098 SUBDIVISION REPLAT APPLICATION.
 
APPLICATION FOR SUBDIVISION REPLAT APPROVAL (Town of Walkerton, Indiana)
 
(FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY)               APPLICATION NO.                                                   
 
Date Filed                                                                                                  
Date of Public Hearing                                                                                 
Plan Commission Action on Replat                                                                
Date Applicant Notified of Action                                                                  
Date Drawing Recorded                                                                                
 
I (we) do hereby apply for replat approval of the following described property in accordance with the provisions of the Town of Walkerton, Indiana, Subdivision Ordinance.
 
1.   Name of Subdivision                                                                                                              
Section                                 Township                                    Range                                 
Area (acres)                          No. of Lots                                 Avg. Size                            
Number of feet of new streets to be dedicated                                                                            
 
2.   Name of property owner(s)                                                                                                     
Address                                                                                  Phone                                 
 
3.   Name of applicant                                                                                                                  
(If other than owner)
Address                                                                                  Phone                                 
 
 
4.   Name of Land Surveyor preparing the Plat                                                                               
Address                                                                                  Phone                                 
 
5.   Legal description of property                                                                                                      
 
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Plan Commission to enforce these
regulations and to bring to the attention of the Town Attorney any violation or
lack of compliance herewith.
   (B)   No owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any such parcel before a plat of
such subdivision has been approved by the Plan Commission, in accordance with
the provisions of these regulations, and filed with the County Recorder.
   (C)   The subdivision of any lot or any parcel of land, by the use of metes
and bounds description for the purpose of sale, transfer or lease with the
intent of evading these regulations, shall not be permitted. All such described
subdivisions shall be subject to all of the requirements contained in these
regulations.
   (D)   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any
building or structure located on a lot or plat, subdivided or sold, in
violation of the provisions of these regulations.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation who fails to comply with or violates,
any of these regulations shall be subject to a fine pursuant to the Appendix:
Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances for each violation, plus cost of prosecution.
   (F)   Each and every day, such violation occurs, shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Short title
   
156.002   Function and purpose
   
156.003   Non-interference
   
156.004   Interpretation
   
156.005   Establishment and control
   
156.006   Zoning of vacated areas
   
156.007   Zoning of annexed areas
   
156.008   Identification
   
156.009   Zoning map
   
156.010   Definitions
Amendments
   
156.025   Initiation of amendment
   
156.026   Amendment by petition or proposed ordinance
   
156.027   Procedure for amendment
Administration and Enforcement
   
156.040   Purpose
   
156.041   Building Official; permits and certificates
   
156.042   Plan Commission
   
156.043   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
156.044   Schedule of fees, charges and expenses
   
156.045   Separability
   
156.046   Repealer
   
156.047   Effective date
Zoning Districts
   
156.060   Establishment
   
156.061   Description
Authorized Uses and Regulations
   
156.075   Authorized uses; table of uses
   
156.076   R-1 Residential District
   
156.077   R-2 Residential District
   
156.078   R-3 Residential District
   
156.079   C-1 Commercial District
   
156.080   C-2 Commercial District
   
156.081   C-3 Commercial District
   
156.082   C-4 Commercial District
   
156.083   I-1 Industrial District
   
156.084   I-2 Industrial District
   
156.085   Floodway District
Special Use Permits
   
156.100   Purpose
   
156.101   Existing uses
   
156.102   Authorization
   
156.103   Application
   
156.104   Procedure
   
156.105   Conditions and restrictions
   
156.106   Changes, expansion, alterations
   
156.107   Abandonment, change in ownership
Special Provisions
   
156.120   Fence regulations
   
156.121   Visibility requirements
   
156.122   Off-street parking and loading space requirements
   
156.123   Sign regulations
   
156.124   Swimming pools, private
   
156.125   Principal structure(s) per lot
   
156.126   Street access; all principal structures
   
156.127   Individual mobile homes; temporary use
   
156.128   Home occupations
   
156.129   Trees permitted in tree lawn
   
156.130   Accessory uses
   
156.131   Private streets
   
156.132   Essential services
   
156.133   Harboring of dangerous animals, birds, bees, reptiles
Non-Conforming Uses, Buildings and Lots
   
156.145   Intended purpose
   
156.146   Non-conforming lots
   
156.147   Non-conforming uses of land
   
156.148   Non-conforming structures
   
156.149   Non-conforming uses of structures and land
   
156.150   Repairs and maintenance
   
156.151   Change of tenancy or ownership
 
   
156.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Town of Walkerton
Zoning Ordinance”.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.002 FUNCTION AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The primary function of this chapter is that of adopting a procedure
for assuring that the land use plan for the Town will become a reality. The
recent approval of a Land Use Plan has established guidelines for this chapter.
Further, it is the function of this chapter to regulate the location and use of
buildings and land for trade, industry, residential and for public and semi-
public or other specific uses;.to regulate height and area of buildings and
other structures, to regulate and determine the size of yards, to regulate the
density of population; and for said purposes to divide the Town into districts
and establish the boundaries thereof; defining certain terms used herein; and
providing for enforcement.
   (B)   The purpose of the regulations to be enforced in the various zoning
districts, is to avoid congestion in streets; to secure safety from fire and
other dangers; to prevent the over-crowding of land; to encourage the most
appropriate use of land throughout the Town with reasonable consideration to be
given to the character of any district and the suitability for particular uses;
to guide and to promote the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and the
general welfare of the citizens of the Town.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.003 NON-INTERFERENCE.
   Whenever the requirements of this chapter are at variance with the
requirements of any other officially adopted rules, regulations, ordinances,
deed restrictions or covenants, the most restrictive shall supersede all
others.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.004 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of health,
safety and the general welfare of the citizens of the Town.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.005 ESTABLISHMENT AND CONTROL.
   (A)   New uses. In all districts, all buildings or structures erected
hereafter, all uses of land, buildings or structures established hereafter, all
structural alteration, enlargement or relocation of existing buildings, or
structures occurring hereafter shall be subject to all regulations of this
chapter which are applicable to the zoning districts in which such building,
structure, uses or land shall be located.
   (B)   Existing uses. In all districts, after the effective date of this
chapter, the existing use of any existing lot, parcel, tract, building or other
structure may be continued, changed, enlarged or extended, reconstructed or
relocated only in accordance with all applicable regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.006 ZONING OF VACATED AREAS.
   Whenever any street, alley or other public way within the Town shall be
officially vacated, such street, alley or other public way or portion thereof
shall automatically be classified in the same zoning district as the property
to which it attaches.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.007 ZONING OF ANNEXED AREA.
   In the event of additional territory being annexed to the Town, such
territory may be zoned at the time of annexation. In the event the annexation
ordinance does not provide for the zoning of the territory to be annexed, the
newly annexed territory shall have R-1 Residential District zoning
classification until such time as the revised land use plan shall determine the
appropriate use for said land and the proper zoning classification is adopted.
Non-conforming use shall be controlled pursuant to the applicable provisions of
this chapter and other applicable laws.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.008 IDENTIFICATION.
   Wherever the word “Town” appears in this chapter, it shall be deemed to
refer to the “Town of Walkerton St. Joseph County, Indiana”; the word
“Commission” refers to the “Walkerton Plan Commission”; the word “Board” refers
to the “Walkerton Board of Zoning Appeals”; the words “Zoning Map” or “Official
Zoning Map” refer to a map entitled “Walkerton, St. Joseph County, Indiana
Zoning Map” dated 1980, and any amendments thereto; the words “Comprehensive
Plan” refer to the complete plan, or any of its parts, prepared and adopted in
accordance with state statute, as is now or may hereafter be in effect.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.009 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The “Walkerton, St. Joseph County, Indiana Zoning Map” dated 1980, to
be known here as the “Official Zoning Map” or “Zoning Map”, all as prepared and
adopted by the Walkerton Plan Commission on 11-6-1980, is hereby incorporated
by reference into this chapter, and at least two copies of said Zoning Map are
on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town and are there
available for public inspection.
   (B)   The Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the
President of the Town Council, attested by the Clerk-Treasurer, under the
following words: “This is to certify that this is the Official Zoning Map
referred to in Ch. 1, § 1.8. of Ord. 9-80 of the Town of Walkerton, St. Joseph
County, Indiana, adopted 12-15-1980.”
   (C)   If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, changes are
made in district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the Zoning Map, such
changes shall be entered on the Zoning Map promptly after the amendment has
been approved by the Town Council. The amending ordinance shall be posted
immediately adjacent to said zoning map until such change is officially shown
on the Zoning Map.
   (D)   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the Official Zoning
Map which may from time to time be made or published, the Zoning Map which
shall be located in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer shall be the final
authority as to the current zoning status of land in the Town.
   (E)   In the event that the Zoning Map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost or
difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and
additions, the Town Council may by resolution adopt a new Official Zoning Map
which shall supersede the prior Zoning Map. The new Zoning Map may correct
drafting or other errors or omissions in the prior Zoning Map, but no such
correction shall have the effect of amending the original Zoning Map or any
subsequent amendment thereof. The new Official Zoning Map shall be identified
by the signature of the President of the Town Council, attested by the Clerk-
Treasurer under the following words: “This is to certify that this Official
Zoning Map supersedes and replaces the Official Zoning Map adopted (date) as
part of Ord. 9-80 of the Town of Walkerton St. Joseph County, Indiana.”
   (F)   Unless the prior Official Zoning Map has been lost, or has been
totally destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts thereof remaining,
shall be preserved, together with all available records pertaining to its
adoption or amendment.
   (G)   The locations and boundaries of the districts established by this
chapter are shown upon the Zoning Map and incorporated into the provisions of
this chapter and which map in its entirety, including all amendments thereto,
shall be as much a part of this chapter as if fully set forth and described
herein.
   (H)   The Zoning Map, and amendments thereto, shall be maintained by the
Town Plan Commission. Where, due to the scale, lack of detail or illegibility
of the Zoning Map, there is any uncertainty as to the intended location of any
boundary, interpretation shall be determined by the Plan Commission.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.010 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms or words used herein
shall be interpreted or defined as follows.
      (1)   The present tense shall include the future tense and vice-versa.
      (2)   Words in the singular includes the plural and vice-versa.
      (3)   The word “person” includes a partnership, company or corporation as
well as an individual.
      (4)   The word “lot” includes the word “plot”, “parcel” or “tract” of
land.
      (5)   The term “shall” is always mandatory and directory.
      (6)   The word “used” or “occupied” as applied to any land or building
shall be construed to include the words “intended, arranged or designed to be
used or occupied”.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words and
terms not defined herein shall be as defined in a current dictionary of general
use.
      ACCESS. The planned area used for vehicular traffic from the street to
the interior portions of a lot.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building or structure located on the
same zoning lot as the principal building or use.
      ACCESSORY USE. One which meets the following qualifications:
         (a)   Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal
use;
         (b)   Is subordinate in area, extent or purpose to the principal
building or principal use served;
         (c)   Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal building or
principal use served; and
         (d)   Is either in the same ownership as such principal use or is
operated and maintained on the same zoning lot substantially for the benefit or
convenience of the owners, occupants, employees, customers or visitors of the
principal use.
      ALTERATIONS, STRUCTURAL. Any change in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders, or any substantial
change in the roof or exterior walls.
      APARTMENT. A room or group of rooms in a two-family or multi-family
dwelling intended for use as a residence by a single family and must include
private bath and culinary accommodations.
      APARTMENT, EFFICIENCY. A small apartment combining living room and
bedroom facilities into one room with minimal kitchen and bath facilities
provided.
      ATTACHED BUILDING. A building which has any part of its exterior or
bearing wall in common with another building or which is connected to another
building by a roof.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR. General repair of automobiles, including engine
rebuilding, rebuilding or reconditioning of motor vehicles, collision service;
such as body, frame or fender straightening and repair, overall painting and
underrating, when carried on in a completely enclosed building.
      AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A building on a tract of land used
exclusively for the storage and sale of gasoline or other fuels and for any
uses accessory thereto. The sale of lubricants, accessories or supplies, the
lubrication of motor vehicles, the minor adjustment or repair of motor vehicles
with hand tools only or the washing of motor vehicles are permitted accessory
uses. Uses that are not permissible include major mechanical and/or body work,
painting, welding, storage of automobiles not in operating condition or the
sale of automobiles.
      AUTOMOTIVE JUNK YARD. See MOTOR VEHICLE WRECKING YARD.
      BILLBOARD (OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN). Any structure or part thereof on
which lettered or pictorial matter is displayed for off premise advertising
purposes.
      BUILDING. A structure with walls and roof securely affixed to the land
and entirely separated on all sides from any other structure by space or by
walls in which there are no communicating doors, windows or openings.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from grade level to the
highest point of the roof surface if a flat roof; to the deck line of mansard
roofs; to the mean height level between eaves and ridge of gable, hip and
gambrel roofs.
      BUILDING LINE. The line nearest the front of and across a lot
establishing the open space provided between the front line of a building or
structure and the street right-of-way line.
      BUILDING PERMIT. A permit issued by the Building Official in accordance
with a plan for construction that complies with all the provisions of this
chapter.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which the main use of a zoning lot is
conducted.
      BUSINESS. The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter or exchange of
goods, wares, merchandise or services, the maintenance or operation of offices
or recreational and amusement enterprises for profit.
      BUSINESS SCHOOL. A privately owned school which teaches secretarial,
bookkeeping, accounting and similar office and clerical skills.
      CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate of occupancy issued by the
Building Official authorizing occupancy based on compliance with the provisions
of this chapter and other applicable codes of the Town.
      CERTIFICATE OF ZONING CLEARANCE. See ZONING CLEARANCE CERTIFICATE.
      CLINIC FOR HUMANS. A facility providing diagnostic, therapeutic or
preventive human outpatient health care by a group of doctors in the same
building.
      CLUBS OR LODGES, PRIVATE. Any association of persons, who are bona fide
members, paying dues, which own or lease a building or portion thereof, the use
of which shall be restricted to members and their guests.
      COMMERCIAL. The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter or exchange of
goods, wares, merchandise or services or recreational or amusement enterprises
for the purpose of realizing a profit.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A composite, or portion thereof, of the mapped and
written proposals and recommendations relative to the growth and development of
a given planning area which shall have been duly adopted by the legislative
body.
      CONSTRUCTION. The placing of materials in permanent position and fastened
in a permanent manner. Where excavation, demolition or removal of an existing
building, has been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, such
excavation, demolition or removal shall be deemed CONSTRUCTION.
      CONVALESCENT HOMES. See NURSING HOMES.
      CONVENIENCE ESTABLISHMENT. A small establishment designed and intended to
serve the daily or frequent trade or service needs of the immediate surrounding
residential area.
      DAY CARE CENTER. A facility operated by a person licensed by state or
local government to provide care and maintenance of children (other than
immediate family or close relatives) during a portion of the day for two or
more consecutive weeks.
      DEPTH OF YARD. The horizontal distance between the lot line and the
building or the furthermost projection thereof.
      DRIVE-IN. A commercial establishment so developed that its operation is
dependent wholly or in part on providing a driveway approach or parking spaces
for motor vehicles so as to serve patrons while in the motor vehicle rather
than within a building or structure.
      DWELLING. A building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively for
residential occupancy.
      DWELLING UNIT. One or more connected rooms designed for occupancy by one
family containing permanent cooking accommodations and bath facilities reserved
for the occupants only.
         (a)   MOBILE HOME. A moveable or portable dwelling, to be used for
human habitation, built on a chassis, designed without a permanent foundation.
         (b)   MULTI-FAMILY. A building on a lot or parcel of land designed and
used exclusively as a residence for three or more families living independently
of one another.
         (c)   SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached residential dwelling other than a
mobile home, separated from other residential dwellings by open space, designed
for and occupied by one family.
         (d)   SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED. A building designed for and occupied
exclusively as a single-family residence having a common party wall with an
adjacent single-family residence. SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED STRUCTURES shall
contain no more than six dwelling units.
         (e)   TWO-FAMILY. A structure designed and occupied exclusively as a
residence for two families with each unit being completely independent of the
other. The design may locate the units side by side or one over the other.
      FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption or a
group of not more than five persons who need not be related by blood, marriage
or adoption, living together and maintaining a common household, but not
including sororities, fraternities or other similar organizations.
      FENCE. A tangible barrier or obstruction of any material above the
surface of the ground, surrounding a part of or the whole of a zoning lot which
is intended to prevent intrusion from without and straying from within the area
controlled.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a stream or river and those portions of the
flood plain adjoining the channel that are required to carry and discharge the
flood water or flood flows of any stream or river.
      FLOOR AREA. When using floor area as the basis for required off-street
parking and loading space, it shall mean the sum of the gross horizontal areas
of the several floors of the building; however, it shall not include areas
devoted primarily to storage purposes.
      FRONTAGE. The contact of abutting property with a street which affords
unobstructed access to the property.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or a portion of the main
building, designed, arranged, used or intended to be used for the storage of
passenger automobiles of the occupants of the premises.
      GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any structure used for the storage or care of motor
driven vehicles, or where any vehicles are kept for remuneration.
      GARAGE, SALE. See SALES, PRIVATE OR PUBLIC.
      GARAGE, VEHICLE REPAIR. A structure used for the repair, equipment or
servicing of motor vehicles, including, but not limited to, upholstery, glass
replacement, painting, welding, body and fender work, major engine overhaul and
transmission work, but not including motor vehicle sales.
      GREEN AREA. A complete coverage by grass or ground cover. In addition to
the required grass or ground cover, it may include shrubs, trees, vines,
flowers, natural features such as rock or stone and structural features such as
fountains, art work, walls and fences.
      HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation or hobby carried on by an occupant of a
dwelling which is clearly incidental to the use of the dwelling. A HOME
OCCUPATION is further clarified and the restrictions thereon will be found in §
156.128 of this chapter.
      JUNK YARD. An open area where waste, scrap metal, paper, rags or similar
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, disassembled or handled
excluding similar uses taking place entirely within a completely enclosed
building.
      KENNEL. Any lot or premises or portion thereof, on which four or more
domestic animals over four months of age, are kept or on which more than two
such animals are boarded for compensation or kept for sale.
      LABORATORY. A place devoted to experimental study, testing and analyzing.
      LIVABILITY OPEN SPACE. Open space for other than vehicular use. Common
open space used for recreational purposes and required open yard areas may be
included in LIVABILITY OPEN SPACE.
      LOT. Parcel, plot or tract of land may be used interchangeably with the
word LOT, meaning a specific piece of land intended for occupancy under the
provisions of this chapter having its principal frontage on a street or an
officially designated and approved private street.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of two or more streets.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is a part of a recorded subdivision, or a lot
described by metes and bounds, which has been recorded by deed in the office of
the Recorder of the county, prior to the effective date of this chapter.
      MINI-WAREHOUSE. A structure in which individually securable and
accessible spaces are rented primarily for the temporary storage of household
goods by individual owners.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. Any area of land upon which two or more mobile homes
are located for the purpose of being occupied either free of charge or on a
rental basis, for either the mobile home as a dwelling unit, or for the pad
space provided for a privately owned mobile home.
      MOBILE HOME SITE. The area of land in a mobile home park for the parking
of one mobile home.
      MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A residential subdivision designed exclusively
for and occupied by mobile homes in which the homes and the land are owned by
the same person.
      MOTEL. A building in which the dwelling units or rooming units are used
primarily for temporary occupancy, and each living or sleeping unit is provided
with separate entrances.
      MOTOR VEHICLE WRECKING YARD. Any place where two or more motor vehicles
not in running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not
being restored to operation; or any land used for wrecking or storing of such
motor vehicles or parts thereof; and including used farm vehicles or machinery,
stored in the open and not being restored to operating condition.
      NON-CONFORMING USE. The use of land, structures or structures and land in
combination lawfully existing at the effective date of adoption or amendment of
this chapter which does not conform to the regulations of the district in which
such use is located.
      NOXIOUS MATTER. A material which is capable of causing injury to living
organisms by chemical reaction or is capable of causing detrimental effects
upon the physical or economic well-being of individuals.
      NURSERY, DAY. A facility operated by a person licensed by state or local
government to provide care and maintenance to children up to six years of age
during a portion of the day.
      NURSING HOME. A building to house and within which services are provided
for ill or aged persons. Also commonly known as a CONVALESCENT HOME.
      OCCUPANCY PERMIT. See CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
      PLANTINGS, NATURAL. See GREEN AREA.
      PROFESSION - PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. Limited in its application to
physicians, lawyers, members of the clergy, architects and engineers or other
persons holding advanced degrees from accredited institutions of higher
learning. The term “semi-professional”, for the purpose of this chapter shall
include those offices which require special skills or education, but do not fit
in the above categories listed.
      RETAIL and RETAIL STORES. Any building in which goods, wares or
merchandise are sold to the ultimate consumer for direct consumption and not
for resale.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A street, alley or other thoroughfare permanently
established for passage of persons or vehicles.
      SALES, PRIVATE, - GARAGE, YARD, RUMMAGE. A temporary sale of used
clothing and/or household items conducted by immediate members of a family or
families in a given area, in their private residence, garage, porch, yard and
the like.
      SANITARY LANDFILL. A method of disposing of refuse on land without
creating nuisances or hazards to public health or safety, by utilizing
principals of engineering to confine the refuse to the smallest practical area,
to reduce it to the smallest practical volume and to cover it with a layer of
suitable cover at the conclusion of each day’s operation or at more frequent
intervals as necessary.
      SCREENING. A hedge, fence or wall, or any combination thereof, used to
reduce visual and audible effects of adjoining uses and to shield site and
sound interference between uses.
      SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance required between the furthermost
projection of a building or structure and the street right-of-way line. When
two or more lots under one ownership are used, the exterior property lines, so
grouped shall be used in determining side yard setbacks.
      SHOPPING CENTER. A group of commercial establishments planned and
developed, owned or managed as a unit, with off-street parking and loading
provided on the premises, and related in its location, size and type of stores,
to the trade area which it serves.
         (a)   COMMUNITY SHOPPING CENTER. A moderate-scale shopping center
designed to provide general merchandising of a limited nature, such as junior
department stores, variety stores and home furnishings in a community trade
area.
         (b)   NEIGHBORHOOD SHOPPING CENTER. A small-scale shopping center
designed for the sale of convenience goods and personal services in a
neighborhood trade area.
      SIGN. Any name, identification, description, display or illumination,
pictorial or otherwise, which is affixed to, painted, represented directly or
indirectly upon a building, including window areas, or structure, which is in
view of the general public and which directs attention to a person, place,
commodity, activity or business.
      SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign which is completely or principally self-
supported by posts or other supports independent of any building or other
structure.
      SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign other than a wall-mounted sign, which projects
from and is supported by or attached to, a wall of a building or structure.
      SIGN, SURFACE AREA. The entire area within a single continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of a sign. Such perimeter shall not include
structural or framing elements outside the limits of such sign if not forming
an integral part of the display. The SURFACE AREA of a double, or multi-faced,
sign shall be the area of the largest single face.
      SPECIAL USE. A use that would not be appropriate without restrictions
throughout the zoning district, but which, if controlled as to number, area
location or relation to the neighborhood, would promote the public health,
safety, welfare, order, comfort, convenience, appearance, prosperity or general
welfare.
      SWIMMING POOL. An artificial or semi-artificial basin or tank, including
all appurtenant equipment, structures and facilities, for the purpose of
impounding water to a depth of more than two and one-half feet for the
immersion or partial immersion therein of human beings.
      TRADE SCHOOL. See VOCATIONAL SCHOOL.
      USE. The purpose for which land or a building thereon is designed,
arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, let or leased.
      USE, PRINCIPAL. A principal use is the main use of land or buildings as
distinguished from a subordinate or accessory use.
      VARIANCE. A variation of the lot size or width requirements, height
restrictions, sign regulations, parking and loading requirements or other
development standards from those set forth in this chapter, granted by the
Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance with the provisions of this chapter where
strict enforcement of the terms of the ordinance would create undue hardship,
owing to the unique characteristics of the property for which the VARIANCE is
sought.
      VOCATIONAL SCHOOL. A privately owned school not conducted by or under the
sponsorship of a charitable organization, which teaches industrial or technical
arts and business trades.
      WAREHOUSE. A building where wares or goods are stored before being
distributed to wholesalers or retailers.
      YARD. An open space on the same lot with a principal building or group of
buildings, which is unoccupied and unobstructed, except as otherwise permitted
in this chapter, and which extends along a lot line and at right angles thereto
to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations in which the lot is
located.
         (a)   FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of a lot, lying
between the front property line which line is also the street right-of way line
and the furthermost projection of the principal building.
         (b)   REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and
lying between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal
building.
         (c)   SIDE. The part of the yard lying between the nearest line of a
building and a side lot line and extending from the required front yard to the
required rear yard.
      ZONING CLEARANCE CERTIFICATE. A certificate issued by the Building
Official prior to any change being made in the use of a building or land, to
verify the proposed usage is in compliance with the zoning district
classification of this chapter.
      ZONING LOT. A tract or parcel of land designated by its owner or
developer as a tract to be used, developed or built upon as a unit under single
ownership or control. A ZONING LOT may or may not coincide with a lot of
record.
      ZONING MAP. The official zoning map incorporated into this chapter as a
part thereof showing the division of land into various districts within the
jurisdiction of the Town.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
AMENDMENTS
§ 156.025 INITIATION OF AMENDMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council may from time to time, amend, supplement, change or
modify, this chapter, including the zoning map, by proceeding in the manner
prescribed herewith.
   (B)   An amendment to the text of the ordinance or an amendment involving
the zoning map may be initiated by any of the following:
      (1)   The Town Council;
      (2)   The Plan Commission;
      (3)   The titleholder(s) of record of a parcel of land; and/or
      (4)   Fifty-one percent of the titleholders of record, when more than two
parcels of land are involved.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.026 AMENDMENT BY PETITION OR PROPOSED ORDINANCE.
   A petition for a text amendment, a rezoning or an annexation shall be filed
with the Clerk-Treasurer, who, when all required data has been filed, shall
proceed to process the petition in accordance with state statute and the rules
of procedure as established by the Plan Commission.
   (A)   Any petition for rezoning, annexation or vacation shall contain the
complete legal description of the property; the name(s) and signature(s) of the
titleholders of record and the name(s) of option holders, if applicable; the
current zoning classification; the requested zoning classification; and details
of the proposed use. A site plan shall be filed as an attachment to and made a
part of the petition. Information on preparing a site plan will be found in §§
156.040 through
156.047 of this chapter.
   (B)   The Town Council shall refer the petition or proposed amendment to the
Plan Commission. A public hearing by the Plan Commission shall be scheduled and
legal notice of said hearing placed in a newspaper of general circulation ten
days prior to the scheduled meeting. The petition or proposed amendment shall
be placed on the Plan Commission agenda and said agenda posted in a public
place at least 48 hours prior to the meeting.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.027 PROCEDURE FOR AMENDMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The Plan Commission shall hold a public hearing and after
hearing both the proponents and opponents, consider the proposal to determine
the need, merit and justification of the proposed amendment.
      (2)   The amendment will also be reviewed as to its relationship to the
overall planning program, this chapter and the Comprehensive Plan.
      (3)   A majority vote of the entire membership is required for official
action.
   (B)   (1)   The Plan Commission shall then submit its report and
recommendation to the Town Council.
      (2)   Such recommendation is advisory only, and shall not be binding on
the Town Council.
   (C)   After receiving the Plan Commission recommendation, the Town Council
shall schedule a public hearing on the proposed ordinance.
      (1)   In the case of a favorable recommendation from the Plan Commission,
a simple majority vote is required to pass the amending ordinance.
      (2)   In the event the recommendation of the Plan Commission is adverse,
the amending ordinance shall not be passed, except by an affirmative vote of
75% of the members of the Town Council.
   (D)   Failure of the Town Council to pass such a proposed ordinance by said
affirmative vote within 90 days after rejection by the Plan Commission shall
constitute rejection of the proposed ordinance. It shall not be reconsidered by
the Plan Commission or the Town Council until the expiration of one year after
the date of its original rejection by the Plan Commission unless substantial
change in the proposal or circumstances can be shown and an exception made to
this rule.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 156.040 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide the procedures for the
administration of the chapter, issuance of permits, inspection of properties,
collection of fees, handling of violators and enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter and amendments thereto.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.041 BUILDING OFFICIAL; PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES.
   The designated Building Official of the Town and such deputies or assistants
that have been, or shall be duly appointed by the Town shall enforce this
chapter and, in addition thereto, shall:
   (A)   Issue all building permits, certificates of occupancy and certificates
of zoning clearance and maintain records thereof;
   (B)   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures and uses of land to
determine compliance with the terms of this chapter;
   (C)   Review all applications for building permits and approve or disapprove
such applications based on compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
other applicable, codes of the Town;
   (D)   Building permits:
      (1)   No building shall be hereafter erected, reconstructed altered or
razed, nor shall any work be started until a building permit shall have been
applied for in writing and issued by the Building Official. No building permit
shall be issued unless the application and attached plot or site plan is in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter and all amendments hereto. If
the permit is denied, reasons for the denial shall be provided the applicant.
      (2)   Unless construction is started within six months after the date of
issuance of a building permit, the permit shall automatically become void and
fees forfeited. Fees for inspection and issuance of permits and certificates
shall be collected in advance of issuance.
      (3)   The Building Official shall require that all applications for
building permits be accompanied by plans and specifications including a plot
plan, drawn to scale.
         (a)   Applications for single-family and two-family dwellings and
their accessory buildings shall be accompanied by a plot plan showing the
following:
            1.   Dimensions of all property lines; legal description;
            2.   Size and location of the structure(s) for which a permit is
being requested and in addition the location of any existing structure(s) on
the property;
            3.   Dimensions from all property lines to the furthermost
projection of the structure and if applicable the distance between structures;
            4.   Location of required off-street parking spaces;
            5.   Provisions for water supply and sanitary sewerage, either
public or private; and
            6.   A building permit shall be issued by the Building Official if
all provisions of this chapter and all other regulations and codes of the Town
have been satisfied.
         (b)   Applications for a building permit for all other new structures,
multi-family residential, commercial or industrial and applications for
addition permits which in the determination of the Building Official are
considered to be of a substantial or significant nature, shall not be issued
until final site approval has been given by the Plan Commission. The scaled
site plan shall include the following information:
            1.   Graphic indication of all property lines; scale of the plan;
location of proposed and existing buildings; dimensions from the property lines
and dimensions between buildings;
            2.   Location of required parking and number of spaces being
provided; type of surface of parking area; method of handling surface water and
calculations for surface water retention:
               a.   Drywells (30 gallons per 100 square feet of paved and/or
roofed area);
               b.   Retention pond (capacity, depth, size);
               c.   Swales and natural absorption area; and/or
               d.   A combination of any of the above.
            3.   Provisions for water supply and sewerage, either public or
private;
            4.   Width of street driving surface and width of right-of-way;
            5.   Location of ingress and egress drives;
            6.   Name, address and telephone number of person responsible for
submitting site plan; and
            7.   In addition to the above the Plan Commission may request the
following information be added to the site plan:
               a.   Calculation of intensity or density of use;
               b.   Indication of landscaping, grassed areas, screening
provisions;
               c.   Provisions for acceleration and deceleration lanes and/or
passing blister;
               d.   Proposed dedication of additional right-of-way;
               e.   Traffic pattern;
               f.   Development staging plan, if applicable;
               g.   Topographical features of the land; and
               h.   Any other information considered pertinent in the
evaluation of the proposed development.
         (c)   After said Plan Commission approval, the Building Official shall
issue the building permit if all provisions, regulations and codes of the Town
have been satisfied.
      (4)   A record of all building permits, plot plans, approved site plans,
certificates of occupancy and application for same shall be kept on file.
   (E)   Occupancy permits:
      (1)   No land shall be occupied or used and no building hereafter
erected, reconstructed or structurally altered shall be used, in whole or in
part, for any purpose whatsoever, until a certificate of occupancy shall have
been issued by the Building Official stating that the building and use comply
with all provisions of this chapter and with all other applicable codes of the
Town.
      (2)   A certificate of occupancy may be applied for coincidentally with
the application for a building permit and shall be issued upon satisfactory
completion of the improvement.
      (3)   A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in
the office of the Building Official.
   (F)   There shall be no change made in the use of a building or land without
a certificate of zoning clearance being first issued by the Building Official.
A zoning clearance shall not take the place of a certificate of occupancy as
required by this chapter.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.042 PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Plan Commission referred to in this chapter is the Town Plan
Commission as duly created by the Town Council by Ord. 5-1976, dated 10-4-1976,
under I.C. 36-7-4.
   (B)   The Plan Commission shall serve in an advisory capacity to boards and
officials to encourage local units of government to support the improvement of
health, safety, convenience and the general welfare of the citizens and to plan
for the future development of their community.
   (C)   The Plan Commission is hereby invested with the following
jurisdiction:
      (1)   To hold public hearings in matters pertaining to petitions for
rezonings, annexations, special use permits and vacations, and to submit
reports to the Town Council setting forth its recommendations. Recommendations
may concern adoption of the Comprehensive Plan, ordinances, amendments and
other matters within the jurisdiction of the Commission authorized by the
advisory planning laws of the state;
      (2)   Render decisions concerning and approve:
         (a)   Subdivision plats or replats of subdivisions; and
         (b)   Approve development plans for residential, commercial and
industrial uses.
      (3)   Prescribe uniform rules of procedure pertaining to petitions,
hearings and the issuance of permits; and
      (4)   Review periodically the effectiveness of this chapter and initiate
amendments or make recommendations in conjunction herewith.
   (D)   A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. No action shall
be official, however, unless authorized by a majority of the Commission.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.043 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Establishment. A Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby established in
accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-900 et seq. of the Acts of the Indiana General
Assembly and all acts now or hereafter amendatory thereto.
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consist of five members appointed
by the Town Council.
         (a)   All members must be residents of the Town and two members must
be members of the Plan Commission.
         (b)   None of the members of the Board of Zoning Appeals may hold
other elective or appointive office in the municipal government.
         (c)   Upon establishment of a Board of Zoning Appeals, the members
shall initially be appointed for the following terms of office:
            1.   One for a term of one year;
            2.   One for a term of two years;
            3.   One for a term of three years;
            4.   Two for a term of four years.
      (2)   Each term expires on January 1 of the first, second, third or
fourth year, respectively, after the year of the members appointment.
      (3)   When an initial term of office expires, each new appointment is for
a term of four years.
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs, by resignation or otherwise, among the members
of the Board of Zoning Appeals, the Town Council shall appoint a member for the
unexpired term.
   (C)   Conflict of interest. A member of a Board of Zoning Appeals may not
participate in a hearing or decision of that Board concerning a zoning matter
in which he has a direct or indirect financial interest. The Board shall enter
into its records the fact that its member has such a disqualification and the
remaining members of the Board shall appoint an elector to participate as a
member in the hearing or decision concerning that zoning matter. (As used in
this section, “zoning matter” does not include the preparation or enactment of
a comprehensive plan.)
   (D)   Quorum; official action.
      (1)   A quorum consists of a majority of the entire membership of the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (2)   Action of the Board of Zoning Appeals is not official unless it is
authorized by a majority of the entire membership of the Board.
   (E)   Organization. At the first meeting of each year, the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall elect a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from its members. The
Vice Chairperson may act as Chairperson during the absence or disability of the
Chairperson.
   (F)   Secretary and employees. The Board of Zoning Appeals may appoint and
fix the compensation of a Secretary and such other employees as are necessary
for the discharge of its duties. This compensation must be in conformity with
salaries and compensation fixed by the legislative body of the municipality.
   (G)   Minutes. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall keep minutes of its
proceedings and records shall be filed in the office of the Board and are
public records. The Board shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions.
   (H)   Rules. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall adopt such rules concerning
the filing of appeals, the application for variances and exceptions, the giving
of notice and the conduct of hearings.
   (I)   Duties and powers. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall:
      (1)   Hear and determine appeals from and review any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by an administrative official or board charged
with the enforcement of a zoning ordinance;
      (2)   Hear and authorize on appeal, in specific cases, such variance from
the terms of the ordinance as will not be contrary to the public interest,
where owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the zoning
ordinance will result in undue hardship, and so that the spirit of the zoning
ordinance, shall be observed and substantial justice done;
      (3)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may, on appeals, reverse, affirm or
modify the order, requirement decision or determination. The Board has all the
powers of the official or board from whom the appeal is taken; and
      (4)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may not grant a variance from a use
district or classification.
   (J)   Procedures. All procedures followed by the Board of Zoning Appeals
shall be as outlined in I.C. 18-7-4-901 through 18-7-4-920 of the Acts of the
General Assembly.
   (K)   Remedies and enforcement. Each decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals
is subject to review by certiorari. Each person aggrieved by a decision of the
Board of Zoning Appeals may present, to the circuit or superior court of the
county in which the premises affected are located, a petition, duly verified,
setting forth that the decision is illegal in whole or in part and specifying
the ground of the illegality. No change of venue from the county in which the
premises affected are located may be had in any cause arising under this
section.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.044 SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges and
expenses and a collection procedure for building permits, certificates of
occupancy, certificates of zoning clearance, filing of appeals, filing of
petitions and filing for site plan review.
      (2)   The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer and may be altered or amended by the Town Council.
   (B)   Until all applicable fees, charges and expenses have been paid in
full, no action shall be taken on any application or appeal.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.045 SEPARABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Town that the several
provisions of this chapter are separable, in accordance with the following.
   (A)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this chapter or amendments thereto to be invalid, such judgment shall not
affect any other provisions of this chapter or amendment thereto, not
specifically included in said judgment.
   (B)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this chapter or amendments thereto to a
particular property, building or other structure, such judgment shall not
affect the application of said provision to any other property, building or
structure not specifically included in said judgment.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.046 REPEALER.
   All prior ordinances or parts of ordinances inconsistent with the provisions
of this chapter are, to the extent of their inconsistence, expressly repealed,
with the legislative intent that this chapter shall contain all regulations
pertaining to zoning.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.047 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter was in full force and effect from and after its passage by the
Town Council.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 156.060 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Town is hereby divided into districts in order to carry out the purposes
and provisions of this chapter. The following districts are hereby established.
   (A)   Residential districts.
      (1)   R-1 Residential District - Single-Family;
      (2)   R-2 Residential District - Two-Family; and
      (3)   R-3 Residential District - Multi-Family.
   (B)   Commercial districts.
      (1)   C-1 Commercial District - Central Business District;
      (2)   C-2 Commercial District - Neighborhood Shopping District;
      (3)   C-3 Commercial District - Shopping Center District; and
      (4)   C-4 Commercial District - General Commercial District.
   (C)   Industrial districts.
      (1)   I-1 Industrial District - Light Industrial; and
      (2)   I-2 Industrial District - Heavy Industrial.
   (D)   FW - Floodway District.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.061 DESCRIPTION.
   The districts outlined above are described as follows.
   (A)   R-1 Residential District. The R-1 Residential District will consist of
single-family detached residential dwellings promoting healthy and safe living
conditions for the residents and also permitting certain special uses that will
not create a negative impact on the residential neighborhood.
   (B)   R-2 Residential District. The general character of the R-2 Residential
District will permit single- family detached residential dwellings and two-
family dwellings located in an environment which is meant to promote healthy
and safe living standards for the residents while permitting specific special
uses that will not create a substantial negative impact on residential
neighborhoods.
   (C)   R-3 Residential District. The nature of the R-3 Residential District
will combine single-family, two-family and multi-family dwellings in a medium
density setting, promoting healthy and safe living conditions while providing a
fuller choice of housing for all segments of the population. Certain special
uses may be permitted providing they do not create a substantial negative
impact on the residential aspects of the neighborhood.
   (D)   C-1 Commercial District. This district is basically designed for the
central business district being the downtown core of the Town, comprising both
the main office and retail center of the community. It is meant to serve the
entire community and to provide room for the large variety of personal service,
retail establishments, offices, and such, that benefit from a downtown
location.
   (E)   C-2 Commercial District. This district is a neighborhood shopping
district intended for locations where limited groups of small establishments
may be appropriately located to serve the frequent retail and personal service
needs of the immediate area. It is not the intent that this district permit
major commercial establishments, nor highway oriented businesses.
   (F)   C-3 Commercial District. This district provides for shopping center
development to encourage the grouping of retail and service establishments in a
manner that will promote vehicular and pedestrian safety.
   (G)   C-4 Commercial District. This general commercial district is designed
to permit free-standing commercial and highway oriented enterprises.
   (H)   I-1 Industrial District. The I-1 Industrial District is designed for
the heavier commercial activities, warehousing and light manufacturing uses.
Uses located within this district shall be so designed, constructed and
operated that there is no production of sound discernible at the lot line in
excess of the average street and traffic noise.
   (I)   I-2 Industrial District. Development within this district will be of a
heavier industrial nature; for manufacturing and other such uses that must be
protected from the intrusion of non-industrial uses which would impede the full
utilization of industrial land.
   (J)   Floodway District. This district will delineate the area established
by the State Natural Resources Commission as a commission floodway. Primary
jurisdiction within this district will be exercised by said Natural Resource
Commission with the Town Council having authority to place terms and conditions
on any permit issued in this district which are more restrictive than those
imposed by Natural Resources.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
AUTHORIZED USES AND REGULATIONS
§ 156.075 AUTHORIZED USES; TABLE OF USES.
   The primary uses permitted in the districts established by §
156.060 of this chapter are shown in Table 1. Where the district column is
marked with an “X” the use is permitted. Where the district column is marked
with an “S” the use may be permitted only as a special use if it meets the
requirements set out in §§
156.100 through
156.107 of this chapter and if, upon application, is specifically authorized
for the zoning district.
Table 1: Authorized Uses
 R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 I-1 I-2 FW
Table 1: Authorized Uses
                                        R-1 R-2 R-3 C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 I-1 I-2 FW
RESIDENTIAL USES
Dwelling - single-family, attached              X
Dwelling - single-family, detached      X   X   X   X
Dwelling - two-family                       X   X
Dwelling - multi-family                         X
Dwelling - single apartment unit            X   X   X   X   S   S   S   S
Homes for the aged                      S   S   X
Nursing homes and convalescent homes    S   S   X
COMMERCIAL USES
Apparel and Accessory Sales and Service
Clothing, apparel and accessory sales               X       X   X
Dry cleaning and laundry pick-up                S   X   X   X   X
stations
Dry goods and notions                               X       X   X
Furriers, fur shops, storage                        X       X   X
Laundry and dry cleaning, coin-                 S   X   X   X   X
operated, self-service
Laundry, steam and dry cleaning plants                              X   X
Outdoor advertising signs                           S           X   X   X
Shoe sales and shoe repair shops                    X       X   X
Tailoring and dressmaking                           X   X   X   X
Automobile - Truck - Motorcycle - Services - Repairs
Automobile accessory sales                          X       X   X
Automobile, motorcycle, repair, body                            X   X
work, painting
Automobile rental agencies                          X       X   X
Automobile, sales, new and used,                    X           X   X
associated services
Automobile service stations                         X           X   X
Automobile washing, including self-                 X       X   X   X
serve
Construction-equipment, heavy duty,                             S   X   X
sales and service
Motorcycle sales and associated service             X           X   X   X
Recreational vehicle sales and service                          X   X   X
Tire recapping and retreading                                       X   X
Truck, heavy truck repair, body work,                           X   X   X
painting
Truck sales, new and used, associated                           X   X   X
service
Truck terminal                                                      X   X
Wheel and frame alignment                                       X   X   X
Business - Professional Offices - Services and Sales
Duplicating and blueprinting                        X       X   X
establishments
Laboratories - industrial research and                              X   X
testing
Laboratories - medical and dental                   X           X   X   X
research and testing
Office equipment, supplies, sales and               X       X   X
service
Offices - professional                          S   X   X   X   X   X
Offices - semi-professional and                     X   X   X   X   X
business
Printing, publishing establishments                 X           X   X   X
Sign manufacturing                                                  X   X
Sign painting, no outside storage                               X   X   X
Contractors - Building Materials and Supplies
Concrete products, bricks, outside                              S   X   X
storage yard permitted
Contractors, no outside storage of                  X           X   X   X
materials
Contractors, outside storage yard                               S   X   X
permitted
Hardware store                                      X       X   X
Lumber yard, building materials,                                S   X   X
incidental millwork
Retail sales, service, plumbing,                    X       X   X   X
heating, electrical item;
Wallpaper, paint, glass store                       X       X   X   X
Wholesale, heating, electrical,                                 X   X   X
wholesale and service
Food - Retail and Wholesale
Catering establishments                             X       X   X   X
Drive-in eating establishments                      S       X   X
Package liquor store                                X       X   X
Restaurant                                          X   S   X   X
Retail only - bakeries,
confectionaries, delicatessen, dairy            S   X   X   X   X
products, grocery, meat, specialty food
stores
Tavern, bar, saloon and lounge                      X       X   X
Wholesale - bakeries, confectionaries,              X           X   X   X
dairy products, groceries and meats
Financial Institutions and Services
Banks, savings and loan, credit unions,             X   X   X   X
no drive-in facilities
Banks, savings and loan, credit unions,             S       X   X
with drive-in facilities
Finance and loan agencies                           X       X   X
Furniture and Household Goods
Floor covering, drapery and upholstery              X       X   X
stores
Furniture, refinishing                              X           X   X
Furniture, retail sales and associated              X       X   X
storage
Interior decorating shops                           X       X   X
Major household appliances, sales and               X       X   X
service
Radio, television, stereo, sales and                X       X   X
service
Specialty shops, china, glassware,                  X       X   X
metalware
Lodging
Hotel                                               X           X
Motel                                               X           X
Miscellaneous - Sales and Service
Antique, gift, art, stationery, books,
florist, jewelry, music, leather, hobby         S   X   S   X   X
shops and similar retail uses
Bicycle, sales and service                          X       X   X
Catalogue sales                                     X       X   X
Department store                                    X       X   X
Drug store and pharmacies                           X   X   X   X
Farm implements, sales, service,                                X   X   X
repair, storage
Feed, fertilizers, seed - retail/                               X   X   X
wholesale
General merchandise sales                           X       X   X
Greenhouse, commercial - nursery stock                          X   X   X
Greenhouse, private, no retail sales    S   S   S
Lawn and garden supplies                            X       X   X   X
Lawnmower sales and service                         X       X   X   X
Lock and gunsmiths                                  X       X   X   X
Monuments                                                       X   X
Pawnshops, second hand stores, no                   X       X   X
exterior display
Pet shops - animal grooming                         X       X   X
Photo pickup stations                               S       X   X
Photographic studios, cameras, supplies             X       X   X
Rental equipment, no outside storage                X       X   X   X
Rental equipment, outside storage yard                          X   X   X   ---
permitted
Sporting goods sales and rental                     X       X   X
accessories
Studios and galleries (i.e., art,                   X       X   X
music, dancing and the like)
Taxidermist                                         X       X   X   X
Temporary sales not to exceed 14 days
per year(i.e. garage, yard, auctions,   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X   X
etc.)
Variety store                                       X       X   X
Personal Services
Barber and beauty shops                 S   S   S   X   X   X   X
Funeral homes and mortuaries                    S   X   S       X
RECREATION AND AMUSEMENT
Carnivals, fairs, circuses, (temporary              X       X   X   X   X
use)
Public parks, playgrounds, athletic
fields, tennis courts golf course,      X   X   X   X           X   X   X
recreation areas and similar uses
Recreation, indoor commercial (i.e.,
ice/roller skating rinks, swimming
pool, gymnasium, health club, tennis/           S   X       X   X   X
racquetball courts, enclosed theater,
night clubs, dance halls)
Recreation, outdoor commercial (i.e.,
miniature golf course, driving range,                       X   X   X   X
golf course)
Theater, outdoor                                                X   X   X
PUBLIC AND SEMI-PUBLIC USES
Airport landing field                                               S   S
Air strip, private                                                  S   S
Cemetery                                S   S   S
Church, chapel, temple, synagogue,      S   S   S   X       X   X
auxiliary uses
Fraternal, social clubs, lodges, no                 X           X
sleeping quarters
Governmental offices and buildings
(i.e., municipal offices, fire          S   S   S   X   S   X   X   X   X
stations, police station, library, post
office)
Public utilities, facilities (i.e.,
water pumping station, reservoirs,
filtration plant, sewage treatment      S   S   S   S   S   S   S   X   X
plant, substations, telephone and gas
structures and facilities)
Hospital and related facilities         S   S   S   S           X   X   X
Medical health center, clinic for       S   S   S   S.          X   X
humans
Radio and television towers,                                    X   X   X
commercial, over 50 ft. in height
Schools, day care, nursery, (private)   S   S   S   X       X   X
Schools, elementary, junior high, high  S   S   S   S           S
school
Schools, vocational, trade, business                            X   X   X
(private)
Veterinarian hospital or clinic, no                 X           X   X   X
outside runs
Veterinarian hospital or clinic with                            S   X   X
outside runs
INDUSTRIAL, MANUFACTURING
Offensive or Noxious Uses
Aluminum, light manufacturing                                       X   X
Animal by-product processing                                            S
Animal kennels                                                  X   X   X
Asphalt product manufacturing and/or                                    X
batch plant
Chemical manufacturing and/or                                           S
processing
Cold storage locker plants                          X           X   X   X
Concrete product manufacturing and/or                                   X
ready-mix batching plant
Dairy products and processing                                       X   X
Fertilizer manufacturing                                                S
Food processing                                                     X   X
Foundries                                                               S
Gas - liquefied petroleum, bottled and                              S   S
bulk
Grain elevators and processing                                          X
Ice manufacturing                                                   X   X
Junk yard                                                               S
Livestock auction barn                                                  S
Machine shop                                                        X   X
Meat - poultry processing - packaging                               X   X
Metal stamping                                                          X
Millwork                                                            X   X
Mini-warehouses                                                 X   X   ‘X
Motor vehicle wrecking and/or storage                                   S
yard
Paper products manufacturing                                            X
Plastic fabrication                                                 X   X
Rubber products manufacturing                                       X   X
Sanitary landfill, refuse dumping,                                      S
waste material disposal
Sawmill                                                             X   X
Sheetmetal work manufacturing                                       X   X
Slaughterhouse - meat packing plants                                    S
Tool and die shops                                                  X   X
Warehouses                                                          X   X
Welding shop                                                    X   X   X
NOTES TO TABLE:
“X” - Permitted Use
“S” - Special use
For any use not specifically designated as an-authorized use or as a special
use in this table, the Plan Commission shall determine the proper district
classification and if it is to be a permitted or a special use.
* See §
156.085 of this chapter.
 
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.076 R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The purpose of creating the R-1 Residential District is to provide
areas primarily designed for single-family detached dwellings located on
individual lots of adequate size to promote the public health, safety and
welfare of the residents.
      (2)   Non-residential uses shall be restricted to those facilities which
may appropriately be located in residential areas to serve educational,
religious, recreational and other essential services for the residents and does
not create a negative impact on the residential area.
   (B)   Use regulations.
      (1)   Permitted uses. No building or land shall be used and no building
shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally altered to be used for any
purpose other than a use which is permitted in Table 1 of this chapter.
      (2)   Special uses. Special uses may be permitted as designated in Table
1 of this chapter, if they meet the requirements set forth in §§
156.100 through
156.107 of this chapter and, upon application, are specifically authorized.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses and/or buildings shall be permitted
in accordance with §§
156.010 and
156.130 of this chapter.
   (C)   Height regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected,
reconstructed or structurally altered to exceed in height the limits
established and specified as follows.
      (1)   The maximum height permitted for a residential dwelling shall be 30
feet, not to exceed two and one-half stories.
      (2)   The maximum height permitted for an accessory building shall be 14
feet, not to exceed one story.
      (3)   For any nonresidential building or structure permitted as a special
use, 30 feet; such height may be increased to a maximum of 40 feet; provided
that, for every foot of height in excess of 30 feet, there shall be added to
all yard requirements, one corresponding foot of width and depth.
   (D)   Area, width and yard regulations. No building shall hereafter be
erected, reconstructed or structurally altered in any manner which will
encroach upon, or reduce the regulations of this chapter.
      (1)   Minimum lot area and width - served by municipal water and sewer.
         (a)   Every single-family detached dwelling hereafter constructed
shall be on a lot having an area of not less than 8,000 square feet, and a
width at the established building line of not less than 80 feet.
         (b)   A lot of record, of not less than 5,000 square feet, and 50 feet
in width at the established building line, may be developed for single-family
residential use in accordance with the provisions in §
156.146 of this chapter; provided, the owner does not own and cannot reasonably
acquire sufficient land to enable him or her to conform to area and width
requirements.
         (c)   Any building or structure other than a single-family detached
dwelling and accessory building shall be located on a lot having an area of not
less than 24,000 square feet and a width at the building line of not less than
100 feet, or greater, as required for a special use permit.
      (2)   Minimum lot area and width - served by either municipal water or
sewer.
         (a)   Every single-family detached dwelling hereafter constructed
shall be on a lot having an area of not less than 12,000 square feet, and a
width at the building line of not less than 80 feet.
         (b)   Any building or structure other than a single-family detached
dwelling and accessory building shall be located on a lot having an area of not
less than 24,000 square feet and a width at the building line of not less than
100 feet, or greater, as required for a special use permit.
      (3)   Minimum lot area and width - served by neither municipal water or
sewer.
         (a)   Every single-family detached dwelling hereafter constructed
shall be on a lot having an area of not less than 20,000 square feet, and a
width at the building line of not less than 80 feet.
         (b)   Any building or structure other than a single-family detached
dwelling and accessory building, shall be located on a lot area of not less
than 24,000 square feet and a width at the building line of not less than 100
feet, or greater, as required for a special use permit.
      (4)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard of not less than 25 feet in
depth between the front property line and the building, or the furthermost
projection thereof.
      (5)   Side yards.
         (a)   On a corner lot, there shall be two side yards, the side yard
abutting the street having a width of not less than 25 feet and the interior
side yard having a width of not less than ten feet.
         (b)   Interior yards shall have two side yards, each side yard shall
be not less than ten feet in width.
      (6)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard on each lot, the depth of
which shall be not less than 25 feet. An accessory building may be erected
within the rear quarter of the lot, observing the above side yard requirements
and located no closer than ten feet from the rear lot line.
   (E)   Fence regulations. Fences shall be in accordance with the provisions
of §§
156.120 and
156.121 of this chapter.
   (F)   Visibility clearance. Vision clearance shall be in accordance with the
provisions of §
156.121 of this chapter.
   (G)   Off-street parking and loading requirements. Off-street parking and
loading space shall be in accordance with §
156.122 of this chapter.
   (H)   Sign regulations. Signs shall be in accordance with the provisions in
§
156.123 of this chapter.
   (I)   Approval of site plan. Site plan approval by the Plan Commission shall
be required prior to issuance of a building permit for any structure other than
a single-family residential dwelling, and accessory building according to the
provisions of §
156.041 of this chapter.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.077 R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The general character and the purpose of creating the R-
2 Residential District is to provide areas primarily designed for one-family
detached and two-family dwellings located on individual lots of sufficient size
to promote the public health, safety and welfare of the residents. Non-
residential uses shall be restricted to those facilities which may
appropriately be located in residential areas to serve educational, religious,
recreational and other essential services for the residents and does not create
significant negative impact on the residential area.
   (B)   Use regulations.
      (1)   Permitted uses. No building or land shall be used and no building
shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally altered to be used for any
purpose other than a use which is permitted in Table 1 of this chapter.
      (2)   Special uses. Special uses may be permitted as designated in Table
1 of this chapter, if they meet the requirements set forth in §§
156.100 through
156.107 of this chapter and, upon application, are specifically authorized.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses and/or buildings shall be permitted
in accordance with §§
156.010 and
156.130 of this chapter.
   (C)   Height regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected,
reconstructed or structurally altered to exceed in height the limits
established and specified as follows.
      (1)   The maximum height permitted for a residential dwelling shall be 30
feet, not to exceed two and one-half stories.
      (2)   The maximum height permitted for an accessory building shall be 14
feet, not to exceed one story.
      (3)   For any non-residential building or structure permitted as a
special use, 30 feet; such height may be increased to a maximum of 40 feet;
provided that, for every foot of height in excess of 30 feet, there shall be
added to all yard requirements, one corresponding foot of width and depth.
   (D)   Area, width and yard regulations. No building shall hereafter be
erected, reconstructed or structurally altered in any manner which will
encroach upon, or reduce the regulations of this chapter.
      (1)   Minimum lot area and width - served by municipal water and sewer.
         (a)   Every single-family detached dwelling hereafter constructed
shall be on a lot having an area of not less than 6,600 square feet, and a
width at the established building line of not less than 66 feet.
         (b)   A lot of record, of not less than 5,000 square feet, and 50 feet
in width at the established building line, may be developed for single-family
residential use in accordance with the provisions of §
156.146 of this chapter; provided, the owner does not own and cannot reasonably
acquire sufficient land to enable him or her to conform to area and width
requirements.
         (c)   Every two-family dwelling hereafter constructed shall be on a
lot having an area of not less than 10,000 square feet, and a width at the
established building line of not less than 66 feet.
         (d)   Any building or structure other than a single- or two-family
dwelling unit and their accessory buildings shall be located on a lot having an
area of not less than 24,000 square feet and a width at the building line of
not less than 100 feet, or greater, as required for a special use permit.
      (2)   Minimum lot area and width - served by either municipal water or
sewer.
         (a)   Every single-family detached dwelling hereafter constructed
shall be on a lot having an area of not less than 12,000 square feet, and a
width at the building line of not less than 66 feet.
         (b)   Every two-family dwelling hereafter constructed shall be on a
lot having an area of not less than 15,000 square feet, and a width at the
established building line of not less than 66 feet.
         (c)   Any building or structure other than a single- or two-family
dwelling unit and their accessory buildings shall be located on a lot having an
area of not less than 24,000 square feet and a width at the building line of
not less than 100 feet, or greater, as required for a special use permit.
      (3)   Minimum lot area and width - served by neither municipal water or
sewer.
         (a)   Every single-family detached dwelling hereafter constructed
shall be on a lot having an area of not less than 20,000 square feet, and a
width at the building line of not less than 66 feet.
         (b)   Every two-family dwelling hereafter constructed shall be on a
lot having an area of not less than 20,000 square feet, and a width at the
established building line of not less than 66 feet.
         (c)   Any building or structure other than a single-family or two-
family dwelling and their accessory buildings shall be located on a lot having
an area of not less than 30,000 square feet and a width at the building line of
not less than 100 feet, or greater, if required for a special use permit.
      (4)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard of not less than 25 feet in
depth between the front property line and the building or the furthermost
projection thereof.
      (5)   Side yards.
         (a)   On a corner lot, there shall be two side yards, the side yard
abutting the street having a width of not less than 25 feet and the interior
side yard having a width of not less than eight feet.
         (b)   On each interior lot, there shall be two side yards having an
aggregate width of not less than 20 feet, neither side yard having a width of
less than eight feet.
      (6)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard on each lot, the depth of
which shall be not less than 25 feet. An accessory building may be erected
within the rear quarter of the lot, observing the above side yard requirements
and be located no closer than ten feet from the rear lot line.
   (E)   Fence regulations. Fences shall be in accordance with the provisions
of §§
156.120 and
156.121 of this chapter.
   (F)   Visibility clearance. Vision clearance shall be in accordance with the
provisions of §
156.121 of this chapter.
   (G)   Off-street parking and loading requirements. Off-street parking and
loading space shall be in accordance with §
156.122 of this chapter.
   (H)   Sign regulations. Signs shall be in accordance with the provisions in
§
156.123 of this chapter.
   (I)   Approval of site plan. Site plan approval by the Plan Commission shall
be required prior to issuance of a building permit for any structure other than
a single-family or two-family residential dwelling and their accessory building
in accordance with the provisions of §
156.041 of this chapter.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.078 R-3 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The nature of this district permits the combining of single-
family, two-family and multi-family dwellings in a medium density environment
designed to promote healthy and safe living conditions. In order to provide for
flexibility in design and building methods, separate area, width and yard
requirements are provided for developments consisting of only one primary
structure on a parcel of land, and for those developments consisting of more
than one primary structure on a parcel of land. Non-residential uses shall be
restricted to those facilities which may appropriately be located in
residential areas to serve educational, religious, recreational and other
essential services for the residents and does not create a substantial negative
impact on the residential area.
   (B)   Use regulations.
      (1)   Permitted uses. No building or land shall be used and no building
shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally altered to be used for any
purpose other than a use which is permitted in Table 1 of this chapter.
      (2)   Special uses. Special uses may be permitted as designated in Table
1 of this chapter, if they meet the requirements set forth in §§
156.100 through
156.107 of this chapter and, upon application, are specifically authorized.
      (3)   Mobile home parks - mobile home subdivisions. Mobile home parks and
mobile home subdivisions will not be allowed within Town limits.
      (4)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses and/or buildings shall be permitted
in accordance with §§
156.010 and
156.130 of this chapter.
   (C)   Height regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected,
reconstructed or structurally altered to exceed in height the limits
established as follows.
      (1)   The maximum height permitted for a residential dwelling shall be 35
feet, not to exceed three stories.
      (2)   The maximum height permitted for an accessory building shall be 14
feet, not to exceed one story.
      (3)   A non-residential building or structure permitted as a special use,
35 feet; such height may be increased to a maximum of 40 feet; provided that,
for every foot of height in excess of 35 feet, there shall be added to all yard
requirements, one corresponding foot of width and depth.
   (D)   Area, width and yard regulations - single primary structure on a
parcel of land. No building shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally
altered in any manner which will encroach upon or reduce the regulations of
this chapter.
      (1)   Both municipal sewer and water. A single primary structure
hereafter constructed shall be on a lot having a minimum width of 75 feet at
the established building line and if served by both municipal sewer and water a
minimum lot area per unit as follows:
 
Type of Dwelling       Minimum Lot Area Per Unit
Efficiency apartments  1,500 sq. ft.
Homes for the aged     1,000 sq. ft.
Multi-family           3,000 sq. ft.
Single-family          6,600 sq. ft.
Single-family attached 4,000 sq. ft.
Two-family             5,000 sq. ft.
 
      (2)   Either municipal sewer and water. A single primary structure
hereafter constructed shall be on a lot having a minimum width of 75 feet at
the established building line and if served by either municipal water or sewer,
a minimum lot area per unit as follows:
 
Type of Dwelling       Minimum Lot Area Per Unit
Efficiency apartments  5,000 sq. ft.
Homes for the aged     4,000 sq. ft.
Multi-family           5,000 sq. ft.
Single-family          12,000 sq. ft.
Single-family attached 5,000 sq. ft.
Two-family             7,500 sq. ft.
 
      (3)   Neither municipal water or sewer. A single primary structure
hereafter constructed shall be on a lot having a minimum width of 75 feet at
the established building line and if neither municipal sewer or water is
available, a minimum lot area of 20,000 square feet shall be provided for both
single- family and two-family dwellings. All other dwelling units shall have
private systems for water and sewerage approved by the State Board of Health
and have a minimum lot area of 5,000 square feet per unit.
      (4)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard of not less than 25 feet in
depth between the front property line and the building or the furthermost
projection thereof.
      (5)   Side yard requirements - single primary structure.
         (a)   On each interior lot, there shall be two side yards.
            1.   One- and/or two-story structures: an aggregate width of not
less than 20 feet and neither side yard having a width of less than eight feet
between the side property line and the furthermost projection of the building.
            2.   Three story structure: an aggregate width of not less than 24
feet and neither side yard having a width of less than ten feet from the side
property line to the furthermost projection of the building.
            3.   Any structure having one-half story below grade level shall
abide by the side yard requirements of the next full story structure.
         (b)   On a corner lot, there shall be two side yards, the side yard
abutting the street having a width of not less than 25 feet. The aggregate
width minimums noted in division (D)(5)(a) above shall apply on the interior
lot side according to the height of the structure.
      (6)   Rear yard requirements - single primary structure. There shall be a
rear yard on each lot, the depth of which shall be not less than 25 feet. An
accessory building may be erected within the rear quarter of the lot, observing
the above side yard requirements and be located no closer than ten feet from
the rear lot line.
   (E)   Regulations for planned multi-family residential development. A
planned multi-family development shall consist of more than one multi-family
residential structure on a parcel of land under a single ownership. Special use
procedures may permit certain commercial establishments to be constructed and
operated within the development for the convenience of the residents.
      (1)   Minimum lot area - planned multi-family residential development.
         (a)   If served by both municipal water and sewer, single-family
attached dwellings and multi-family dwellings shall have 3,000 square feet per
unit.
         (b)   If served by either municipal water or sewer, single-family
attached dwellings and multi-family dwellings shall have 5,000 square feet and
efficiency apartments shall have 4,000 square feet.
         (c)   If neither municipal water or sewer is available, all private
water and sewer systems shall be approved by the State Board of Health and have
a minimum lot area of 5,000 square feet per dwelling unit.
      (2)   Distance from all lot lines - planned multi-family residential
development. There shall be a minimum distance of not less than 30 feet from
any lot line to the furthermost projection of any principal structure, and 15
feet from any lot line to an accessory building.
      (3)   Distance between structures - planned multi-family residential
development. There shall be a minimum distance of not less than 40 feet between
principal structures and not less than 20 feet between a principal structure
and an accessory building.
      (4)   Livability open space - planned multi-family residential
development. There shall be a minimum livability open space (non-vehicular
space) of two times the gross residential floor area.
      (5)   Commercial establishments - planned multi-family development.
         (a)   Any commercial establishment permitted by special use shall be
of one story construction compatible with the design of the overall development
or, if incorporated as part of a residential structure, it shall be restricted
to the ground floor.
         (b)   The commercial portion of the development shall be designed and
located in such a manner to avoid encouraging outside vehicular traffic
entering the development.
         (c)   Commercial area usage shall contain no more than a total of
5,000 square feet of floor area and no one single establishment shall exceed
1,500 square feet. Permitted uses shall be limited to those necessary to serve
the daily or frequent pedestrian trade and/or service needs of the immediate
area.
         (d)   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any
commercial establishment within the planned development until a minimum of 65%
of the residential units within the development are under roof.
   (F)   Fence regulations. Fences shall be in accordance with the provisions
of §§
156.120 and
156.121 of this chapter.
   (G)   Visibility clearance. Vision clearance shall be in accordance with the
provisions of §
156.121 of this chapter.
   (H)   Off-street parking and loading requirements. Off-street parking and
loading space shall be in accordance with §
156.122 of this chapter.
   (I)   Sign regulations. Signs shall be in accordance with the provisions in
§
156.123 of this chapter.
   (J)   Approval of site plan. Site plan approval by the Plan Commission shall
be required prior to issuance of a building permit for any structure other than
a single-family or two-family residential dwelling and their accessory building
in accordance with the provisions of §
156.041 of this chapter.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.079 C-1 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The C-1 Commercial District has been created specifically for
the Town’s downtown core. It is designed to serve the entire community and
provide an area for the primary retail center as well as for offices,
governmental facilities and personal service establishments.
   (B)   Use regulations.
      (1)   Permitted uses. No building or land shall be used and no building
shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally altered to be used for any
purpose other than a use which is permitted in Table 1 of this chapter.
      (2)   Special uses. Special uses may be permitted as designated in Table
1 of this chapter if they meet the requirements set forth in §§
156.100 through
156.107 of this chapter and, upon application, are specifically authorized.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses and/or buildings shall be permitted
in accordance with §§
156.010 and
156.130 of this chapter.
   (C)   Height regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected,
reconstructed or structurally altered to exceed 35 feet in height, nor shall it
exceed three stories. No accessory building shall exceed 20 feet in height.
   (D)   Yard regulations.
      (1)   Front yard. There shall be no front yard required.
      (2)   Side yard. There shall be no side yard required. However, if a side
yard is provided, there shall be not less than five feet in width between the
side lot line and the building or the furthermost projection thereof.
      (3)   Rear yard. There shall be no rear yard required.
   (E)   Fences. Fences shall be in accordance with the provisions of §§
156.120 and
156.121 of this chapter.
   (F)   Visibility clearance. Vision clearance shall be in accordance with the
provisions of §
156.121 of this chapter.
   (G)   Off-street parking and loading requirements. Off-street parking and
loading are not a requirement of this district; however, if provided, they
shall meet the design and maintenance requirements in accordance with §
156.122 of this chapter.
   (H)   Sign regulations. Sign regulations shall be in accordance with the
provisions of §
156.123 of this chapter.
   (I)   Special conditions. Apartment dwellings shall be prohibited below a
commercial establishment or in an accessory building. Apartment dwellings shall
be permitted above a commercial establishment.
   (J)   Approval of site plan. Site plan approval by the Plan Commission shall
be required prior to issuance of a building permit for any new structure or
major addition to an existing structure in accordance with the provisions of §
156.041 of this chapter.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.080 C-2 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The C-2 Commercial District is intended for areas where a
single commercial establishment or a limited group of small establishments may
be appropriately located to serve the frequent commercial and/or personal
service needs of area residents living within a convenient traveling distance.
It is not the intent of this district to permit major commercial
establishments, nor highway oriented businesses.
   (B)   Use regulations.
      (1)   Permitted uses. No building or land shall be used and no building
shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally altered to be used for any
purpose other than a use which is permitted in Table 1 of this chapter.
      (2)   Special uses. Special uses may be permitted as designated in Table
1 of this chapter, if they meet the requirements set forth in §§
156.100 through
156.107 of this chapter and, upon application, are specifically authorized.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses and/or buildings shall be permitted
in accordance with §§
156.010 and
156.130 of this chapter.
   (C)   Height regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected,
reconstructed or structurally altered to exceed two stories, nor shall it
exceed 30 feet in height. No accessory building shall exceed 16 feet in height.
   (D)   Yard and area regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected,
reconstructed or structurally altered in any manner which will encroach upon,
or reduce the regulations of this chapter.
      (1)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard of not less than 25 feet in
depth between the front property line and the building or the furthermost
projection thereof. The required front yard depth shall be maintained as a
green area except for necessary access ways.
      (2)   Side yards.
         (a)   On a corner lot, there shall be two side yards, the side yard
abutting the street having a width of not less than 25 feet, and the interior
side yard a width of not less than ten feet.
         (b)   Interior lots shall have two side yards, each side yard shall be
not less than ten feet.
      (3)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard on every lot, which rear yard
shall have a minimum depth of 20 feet. An accessory building may be constructed
in the rear yard area observing the above side line requirements and be located
no closer than ten feet from the rear lot line unless said rear line abuts a
residential zoning district which shall require a minimum of 12 feet from the
lot line.
      (4)   Lots abutting residential zoning district.
         (a)   In no case shall any building or structure be erected closer
than 12 feet from any residential zoning district, nor shall any parking or
loading facilities be located within the 12-foot area adjacent to said
residential property line. It shall further be required that any property line
abutting said district be effectively screened in one of the following ways, or
a combination thereof:
            1.   Buffering shall be by a dense strip of natural plantings, not
less than six feet in width and six feet in height after one full growing
season, and ten feet in ultimate height; or
            2.   A solid fence not less than six feet in height.
         (b)   All screening plans shall be approved by the Plan Commission.
   (E)   Fences. Fences shall be in accordance with the provisions of §§
156.120 and
156.121 of this chapter.
   (F)   Visibility clearance. Vision clearance shall be in accordance with the
provisions of §
156.121 of this chapter.
   (G)   Off-street parking and loading requirements. Off-street parking and
loading space shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of §
156.122 of this chapter.
   (H)   Sign regulations. Sign regulations shall be in accordance with the
provisions in §
156.123 of this chapter.
   (I)   Special conditions.
      (1)   All business shall be conducted within a completely enclosed
building unless otherwise specifically authorized as part of a special use.
      (2)   Apartment dwellings shall be prohibited below a commercial
establishment or in an accessory building. Apartment dwellings shall be
permitted above a commercial establishment.
   (J)   Approval of site plan. Site plan approval by the Plan Commission shall
be required prior to issuance of a building permit for any new structure or
major addition to an existing structure in accordance with the provisions of §
156.041 of this chapter.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.081 C-3 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The purpose of the C-3 Commercial District is to assure the
grouping of commercial buildings in such a manner as to constitute a safe,
harmonious, efficient and convenient retail shopping center. Provision of
adequate off-street parking will provide freedom from congestion on public
streets and proper traffic patterns will protect the general welfare and safety
of the surrounding area. It is the intent, specifically, of this section to
prohibit residential and industrial use of the land and to prohibit any other
use which would substantially interfere with the development or continuation of
the commercial structures in the district.
   (B)   Use regulations.
      (1)   Permitted uses. No building or structure or part thereof shall be
erected, altered or used, or the premises used, in whole or in part, for other
than one or more of the permitted uses specified in Table 1 of this chapter.
      (2)   Special uses. Special uses may be permitted as designated in Table
1 of this chapter, if they meet the requirements set out in §§
156.100 through
156.107 of this chapter and, upon application, are specifically authorized.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses and/or buildings shall be permitted
in accordance with §§
156.010 and
156.130 of this chapter.
   (C)   Height regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected,
reconstructed or structurally altered to exceed 35 feet in height. No accessory
building shall exceed 20 feet in height.
   (D)   Area regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected,
reconstructed or structurally altered in any manner which will encroach upon,
or reduce the regulations of this chapter.
      (1)   General. No C-3 District shall contain less than four acres, nor
have a lot width of less than 200 feet, nor a depth of less than 300 feet.
         (a)   No building or structure shall be located less than 50 feet from
any property line.
         (b)   No parking area shall be located less than ten feet from any
interior property line and 20 feet from any property line abutting a street.
         (c)   The ten-foot strip immediately adjacent to interior property
lines and the 20-foot strip adjacent to a street shall be maintained as green
area except for necessary access ways.
      (2)   Lots abutting a residential zoning district.
         (a)   Any property line abutting a residential zoning district shall
be required to be effectively screened in one of the following ways, or a
combination thereof:
            1.   Buffering shall be a dense strip of natural plantings, not
less than ten feet in width and six feet in height after one full growing
season, and ten feet in ultimate height;
            2.   A solid fence not less than six feet in height.
         (b)   The screening plans shall be approved by the Plan Commission.
   (E)   Approval of plans. No permit for the construction of a building, or
any part thereof, shall be issued prior to approval of the development plans by
the Town Council. Approval shall be given only after having considered the
recommendation of the Plan Commission. The following steps shall be followed in
seeking plan approval.
      (1)   A developer shall prepare and submit a preliminary plan and
supporting data for review and tentative approval of the Plan Commission and
the Town Council.
      (2)   Upon approval of the preliminary development plan, the developer
shall prepare and submit a final development plan which shall incorporate any
changes or alterations required by the Plan Commission and/or the Town Council.
The final plan shall include all of the requirements for a site plan in
accordance with §
156.041 of this chapter. The Plan Commission shall review the final development
plan and forward its recommendation to the Town Council who shall be
responsible for final approval.
         (a)   In reviewing a site development plan, the Plan Commission shall
determine that it conforms to all applicable provisions of this chapter; that
the safety and convenience of the public are adequately provided for; that
adequate protection and separation are provided for contiguous properties; that
safe internal circulation has been incorporated into the design for both
vehicular and pedestrian movement.
         (b)   A shopping center located on a major thoroughfare should be
served by a service road with access from a minor road whenever possible.
Ingress and egress points should be designed and located not less than 200 feet
from intersecting streets.
   (F)   Fence regulations. All fences shall be in accordance with the
provisions of §§
156.120 and
156.121 of this chapter.
   (G)   Visibility requirements. Vision clearance shall be in accordance with
the provisions of §
156.121 of this chapter.
   (H)   Off-street parking and loading requirements. Off-street parking and
loading space requirements shall be in conformance with the provisions of §
156.122 of this chapter.
   (I)   Sign regulations. All signs shall be in accordance with the provisions
of §
156.123 of this chapter.
   (J)   Special conditions. Residential dwellings shall be prohibited.
However, a single apartment unit for the specific use of a security guard, may
be permitted as a special use.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.082 C-4 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The C-4 District is designed to provide for free-standing
commercial activities and highway oriented businesses. Uses permitted in this
district may require larger sites and buildings and may not necessarily be
compatible with other commercial or residential districts.
   (B)   Use regulations.
      (1)   Permitted uses. No building or land shall be used and no building
shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally altered to be used for any
purpose other than a use which is permitted in Table 1 of this chapter.
      (2)   Special uses. Special uses may be permitted as designated in Table
1 of this chapter, if they meet the requirements set forth in §§
156.100 through
156.107 of this chapter and, upon application, are specifically authorized.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses and/or buildings shall be permitted
in accordance with §§
156.010 and
156.130 of this chapter.
   (C)   Height regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected,
reconstructed or structurally altered to exceed 35 feet in height. No accessory
building shall exceed 20 feet in height.
   (D)   Yard and area regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected,
reconstructed or structurally altered in any manner which will encroach upon,
or reduce the regulations of this chapter.
      (1)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard of not less than 30 feet in
depth between the front property line and the building or the furthermost
projection thereof. The required front yard area shall be maintained as a green
area, except for necessary ways of access.
      (2)   Side yards.
         (a)   On a corner lot, there shall be two side yards, the side yard
abutting the street having a width of not less than 30 feet, and the interior
side yard a width of not less than 20 feet.
         (b)   Interior lots shall have two side yards, each side shall be not
less than 20 feet.
      (3)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard on every lot, which rear yard
shall have a minimum depth of 25 feet. An accessory building may be built in
the rear yard area observing the above side line requirements and be located no
closer than ten feet from the rear line.
      (4)   Lots abutting a residential zoning district.
         (a)   Any property line abutting a residential zoning district shall
be required to be effectively screened in one of the following ways, or a
combination thereof:
            1.   Buffering shall be a dense strip of natural plantings, not
less than ten feet in width, and six feet in height after one full growing
season, and ten feet in ultimate height; or
            2.   A solid fence not less than six feet in height.
         (b)   The screening plans shall be approved by the Plan Commission.
   (E)   Fence regulations. Fences shall be in accordance with the provisions
of §§
156.120 and
156.121 of this chapter.
   (F)   Visibility clearance. Vision clearance shall be in accordance with the
provisions of §
156.121 of this chapter.
   (G)   Off-street parking and loading requirements. Off-street parking and
loading space shall be in accordance with §
156.122 of this chapter.
   (H)   Sign regulations. Signs shall be in accordance with the provisions in
§
156.123 of this chapter.
   (I)   Special conditions. Apartment dwellings shall be prohibited below a
commercial establishment or in an accessory building. Apartment dwellings may
be permitted above a commercial establishment only as a special use.
   (J)   Approval of site plan. Site plan approval by the Plan Commission shall
be required prior to issuance of a building permit for any new structure or
major addition to an existing structure in accordance with the provisions of §
156.041 of this chapter.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.083 I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The I-1 Industrial is designed to provide sites for heavy
commercial, warehousing, wholesaling and light manufacturing activities. Such
sites are to be protected from the intrusion of non-industrial uses which would
impede the full utilization of the industrial land. The public health, safety
and general welfare of adjacent districts are to be safeguarded from the
effects of the heavier uses permitted. Uses located within this district shall
be so designed, constructed and operated that there is no production of sound
discernible at the lot line in excess of the average street and traffic noise,
nor any production of heat, glare or smoke discernible at any lot line.
   (B)   Use regulations.
      (1)   Permitted uses. No building or land shall be used and no building
shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally altered to be used for any
purpose other than a use which is permitted in Table 1 of this chapter.
      (2)   Special uses. Special uses may be permitted as designated in Table
1 of this chapter if they meet the requirements set forth in §§
156.100 through
156.107 of this chapter and, upon application, is specifically authorized.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses and/or buildings shall be permitted
in accordance with §§
156.010 and
156.130 of this chapter.
   (C)   Height regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected,
reconstructed or structurally altered to exceed 35 feet. No accessory building
shall exceed 20 feet in height.
   (D)   Yard and area regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected,
reconstructed or structurally altered in any manner which will encroach upon,
or reduce the requirements of this chapter.
      (1)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard on each lot which shall be
not less than 30 feet in depth. The front yard shall be maintained as a green
area, except for necessary ways of access.
      (2)   Side yards.
         (a)   On a corner lot, there shall be two side yards, the side yard
abutting the street having a width of not less than 30 feet and the interior
side yard a width of not less than 20 feet.
         (b)   On each interior lot, there shall be two side yards having an
aggregate width of not less than 50 feet, neither side yard having a width of
less than 20 feet.
      (3)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard on each lot the depth of
which shall be not less than 30 feet. An accessory building may be constructed
in the rear yard area maintaining the same side line requirements and be
located ten feet from the rear lot line.
      (4)   Lots abutting a residential zoning district. In no case shall any
building or structure be erected closer than 100 feet to any residential zoning
district nor shall any parking area be closer than 30 feet to said district.
The 30-foot area shall be maintained as a green area. Any property line
abutting said area shall be required to be effectively screened in one of the
following ways, or a combination thereof:
         (a)   Buffering shall be by a dense strip of natural plantings, not
less than ten feet in width, and six feet in height; after one full growing
season, and ten feet in ultimate height; or
         (b)   A solid fence not less than seven feet in height.
   (E)   Fence regulations. Fences shall be in accordance with the provisions
of §§
156.120 and
156.121 of this chapter.
   (F)   Visibility clearance. Vision clearance shall be in accordance with the
provisions of §
156.121 of this chapter.
   (G)   Off-street parking and loading requirements. Off-street parking and
loading space shall be in accordance with §
156.122 of this chapter.
   (H)   Sign regulations. Signs shall be in accordance with the provisions in
§
156.123 of this chapter.
   (I)   Open storage. Any open storage yard shall be entirely enclosed with a
solid or opaque fence no less than seven feet in height.
   (J)   Special conditions. Residential dwellings shall be prohibited.
However, a single apartment unit for the specific use of a security guard, may
be permitted as a special use.
   (K)   Approval of site plan. Site plan approval by the Plan Commission shall
be required prior to issuance of a building permit for any new structure or
major addition to an existing structure in accordance with the provisions of §
156.041 of this chapter.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.084 I-2 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The I-2 District is designed to provide areas suitable for
development of heavy industrial sites, and at the same time to protect such
industrial developments from the intrusion of non-industrial uses which impede
the full utilization of such areas. The public health, safety and the general
welfare of the entire Town as well as the adjacent districts are to be
safeguarded from the effects of the heavier industrial usage permitted.
   (B)   Use regulations.
      (1)   Permitted uses. No building or land shall be used and no building
shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally altered to be used for any
purpose other than a use which is permitted in Table 1 of this chapter.
      (2)   Special uses. Special uses may be permitted as designated in Table
1 of this chapter, if they meet the requirements set forth in §§
156.100 through
156.107 of this chapter and, upon application, are specifically authorized.
      (3)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses and/or buildings shall be permitted
in accordance with §§
156.010 through
156.130 of this chapter.
   (C)   Height regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected,
reconstructed or structurally altered to exceed 35 feet. No accessory building
shall exceed 25 feet in height.
   (D)   Yard and area regulations. No building shall hereafter be erected,
reconstructed or structurally altered in any manner which will encroach upon,
or reduce the requirements of this chapter.
      (1)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard on each lot which shall be
not less than 50 feet in depth. The required yard area shall be maintained as a
green area except for necessary ways of access.
      (2)   Side yards.
         (a)   On each corner lot, there shall be two side yards, the side yard
abutting the street having a width of not less than 50 feet and the interior a
width of not less than 40 feet.
         (b)   On each interior lot, there shall be two side yards having a
width of not less than 40 feet.
      (3)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard on each lot the depth of
which shall be not less than 50 feet. An accessory building may be constructed
in the rear yard area maintaining the same side line requirements and be
located ten feet from the rear lot line.
      (4)   Lots abutting a residential zoning district.
         (a)   In no case shall any building or structure be erected closer
than 100 feet to any residential zoning district nor shall any parking area be
closer than 50 feet to said district. The 50-foot area shall be maintained as a
green area. Any property line abutting said area shall be required to be
effectively screened in one of the following ways, or a combination thereof:
            1.   Buffering shall be by a dense strip of natural plantings, not
less than ten feet in width, and six feet in height after one full growing
season, and ten feet in ultimate height; or
            2.   A solid fence not less than seven feet in height.
         (b)   The screening plans shall be approved by the Plan Commission.
   (E)   Fence regulations. Fences shall be in accordance with the provisions
of §§
156.120 and
156.121 of this chapter.
   (F)   Visibility clearance. Vision clearance shall be in accordance with the
provisions of §
156.121 of this chapter.
   (G)   Off-street parking and loading requirements. Off-street parking and
loading space shall be in accordance with §
156.122 of this chapter.
   (H)   Sign regulations. Signs shall be in accordance with the provisions in
§
156.123 of this chapter.
   (I)   Open storage. Any open storage yard shall be entirely enclosed with a
solid or opaque fence no less than seven feet in height.
   (J)   Special conditions. Residential dwellings shall be prohibited.
However, a single apartment unit for the specific use of a security guard, may
be permitted as a special use.
   (K)   Approval of site plan. Site plan approval by the Plan Commission shall
be required prior to issuance of a building permit for any new structure or
major addition to an existing structure in accordance with the provisions of §
156.041 of this chapter.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.085 FLOODWAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   General. The purpose of these provisions is to promote the public
health, safety and general welfare of the Town; to reduce the hazard of floods
to life and property in time of flood; to protect the public against
extraordinary expenditures for flood control; and to protect the storage
capacity of flood plains to assure retention of sufficient floodway area to
convey flood flows which can reasonably be expected to occur.
   (B)   Use regulations.
      (1)   This district is an overlay district and is established in addition
to the underlying use districts and shall place additional regulations upon the
property in conformance with
Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   No building or land shall be used and no building shall be erected,
reconstructed or structurally altered to be used for any purpose except in
conformance with all provisions of this chapter and except in conformance with
all provisions of
Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
SPECIAL USE PERMITS
§ 156.100 PURPOSE.
   A classification of special use is hereby established to provide for the
location of certain special uses designated in §
156.075, Table 1, of this chapter, which are deemed desirable for the public
welfare within a given district or districts, but which because of their unique
character, the nature of their operation or limited application, cannot be
properly classified into particular districts without consideration in each
case, of the possible impact upon the character and future development of the
district in which they are located.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.101 EXISTING USES.
   Where a use exists on the effective date of this chapter and it is
classified as a special use by this chapter, it shall be considered to be a
lawful special use. Additions or alterations to existing buildings or expansion
of said lawful special use may be permitted; provided, it meets the
requirements as set out in this section, and upon application, is specifically
authorized by the Town Council.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.102 AUTHORIZATION.
   Special use shall be authorized only by the Town Council. No application for
a special use shall be acted upon by the Town until after a public hearing has
been held by the Plan Commission and its findings and recommendations reported
to and considered by the Town.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.103 APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for special use shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer
who shall process such application in the same manner as prescribed in §
156.146 of this chapter covering amendments to this chapter.
   (B)   The application shall include the complete legal description of the
property; the name(s) and signature(s) of titleholder(s) of record and the name
(s) of option holders, if applicable. Further, it shall include:
      (1)   The current zoning classification;
      (2)   A detailed explanation of the special use being requested;
      (3)   The manner in which such special use shall be operated or
conducted; and
      (4)   Any special provisions or conditions that will be incorporated into
the execution of the use to insure it will not be detrimental to the
surrounding area.
   (C)   A scaled plot plan shall be made an attachment to and a part of, the
application with said plan detailing dimensions of boundaries, location and
size of structures, access provisions and all other pertinent data.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.104 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   After legal publication and due notice, the Plan Commission shall hold
a public hearing. In its consideration, the Plan Commission will attempt to
determine if the special use is necessary for public convenience at the
specific location requested; if it is so designed, located and proposed to be
operated in a manner to protect the public health, safety and general welfare
of the neighborhood; and further to determine that the special use will not
have substantial negative impact on other property in the surrounding area.
   (B)   After said public hearing, the Plan Commission shall submit its report
and recommendations to the Town Council. Such recommendations by the Plan
Commission shall be advisory only, and shall not be binding on the Town
Council. The Commission may recommend, and the Town Council may impose such
conditions and restrictions as may be deemed necessary to promote the general
objectives of this chapter and of the Comprehensive Plan for the Town.
   (C)   The Town Council shall schedule a public hearing on the application
after receiving the report and recommendation of the Plan Commission. A special
use shall not be granted by the Town Council unless the special use shall:
      (1)   Be deemed necessary for the public convenience in that specific
location;
      (2)   Be so designed, located and proposed to be operated in such a
manner that the public health, safety and general welfare will be protected;
and
      (3)   Be of a nature that will not cause substantial negative impact on
other property in the neighborhood in which it is to be located.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.105 CONDITIONS AND/OR RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Town Council may provide such conditions and restrictions upon the
construction, location and operation of a special use, including, but not
limited to, location of points of vehicular ingress and egress, off-street
parking and loading, building setbacks and the like, as may beseemed necessary
to promote the general objectives of this chapter and to minimize any injury to
the value of the property in the neighborhood.
   (B)   Failure to maintain such conditions or restrictions, as imposed, shall
constitute grounds for revocation of the special use permit.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.106 CHANGES, EXPANSION, ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Any proposed expansion, change or alteration in the operation of the
permitted use shall be reported in detail to the Town Council in written form
and it shall be the Town Council’s responsibility to determine if such change
is of a significantly substantial nature to require the issuance of a new
permit.
   (B)   If the Town Council determines the proposed change is not of a
significant nature and may be done under the current permit, the Town Council
shall so notify the applicant in writing. All correspondence regarding same is
to be attached to the original special use permit and becomes a part of said
permit.
   (C)   If the Town Council determines the requested change is of a
significant nature and a new permit is required, an application shall be filed
and processed in the same manner as any new application, with publication,
notice, hearings and the like.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.107 ABANDONMENT, CHANGE IN OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   Whenever a special use is abandoned or becomes unused for a continuous
period of one year, such special use permit shall terminate and the owner shall
be required to obtain a new special use permit prior to commencing operation.
   (B)   A special use permit goes with the land and a change of ownership does
not void the permit. The new owner must, however, abide with all details of
operation and conditions/restrictions previously imposed on said permit or file
for a new permit to cover any changes.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
SPECIAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.120 FENCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General provisions - all districts.
      (1)   No fence or wall shall be constructed of or contain barbed wire,
broken glass, spikes or sharp and dangerous objects, nor be electrically
charged; except that, barbed wire may be used at the top portion of a permitted
fence or wall if located more than eight feet above the adjacent ground level.
Such permitted barbed wire shall be considered part of the fence height
restrictions.
      (2)   All fences and walls permitted herein may be located immediately
adjacent to the lot lines.
      (3)   Variances from the restrictions of this section may be authorized
only by the Board of Zoning Appeals, with the exception of a fence authorized
in conjunction with a special use permit.
      (4)   Visibility requirements, per §
156.121 of this chapter, shall take priority over the provisions of this
section in location and height of permitted fences.
      (5)   All fences and walls shall be kept in a state of good repair.
   (B)   Fences permitted in residential and business districts.
      (1)   Within the required front yard area, no fence or wall, (other than
a necessary retaining wall) shall be higher than five feet.
      (2)   A fence or wall, not more than seven feet in height may be
installed in the side and/or rear yards of any lot in a residential or business
district. On a through lot where such rear yard or portion thereof abuts a
front yard of an adjacent property, said fence or wall shall not exceed five
feet in height.
   (C)   Fences permitted in industrial districts. In an industrial district, a
fence or wall, not to exceed 12 feet in height, may be installed immediately
adjacent to any property line subject to §
156.121 of this chapter.
   (D)   Fences around junk yards or automobile wrecking yards.
      (1)   An opaque fence, not less than eight feet in height, nor more than
12 feet in height, shall be maintained in a state of good repair around all
junk yards and/or automobile wrecking yards subject to §
156.121 of this chapter.
      (2)   It is the intention of this provision that required fences shall be
more attractive than the view they are constructed to obscure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3e82591aa4b118acd90b56be9176b660163681a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1597.jpg]
 
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980; Ord. 1997-3, passed 10-20-1997)
§ 156.121 VISIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Street intersection visibility requirements. On a corner lot, in any
district, no fence, hedge, wall, sign or other structure shall be erected,
placed, planted or allowed to grow in such a manner as to impede vision between
a height of two and one-half feet and eight feet above the established grade
level of the intersecting streets in the area bounded by the street lines of
such corner lots and a line joining points along said street lines 50 feet from
the point of the intersection; except that, the location of principal
buildings, traffic-control devices and public utility fixtures shall not be
affected by this requirement.
   (B)   Driveway and alley visibility requirements. At intersections of
driveways and alleys with streets, no fence, hedge, wall, sign or other
structure shall be erected, placed or allowed to grow in such a manner at to
impede vision between a height of two and one-half feet and ten feet above the
established driveway or alley grade level in the area bounded by the driveway
or alley lines and lot lines and a line joining points along said lines ten
feet from the point of intersection of such driveway or alley lines and such
lot lines.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.122 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The regulations of this section are designed to alleviate or
prevent congestion of the public streets and so promote the safety and welfare
of the public by establishing minimum requirements for the off-street parking
and loading needs in accordance with the use of the land or structure.
   (B)   Scope of regulations.
      (1)   Accessory off-street parking and off-street loading facilities
shall be provided as required by the regulations of this section for all
buildings and all land uses established in each district after the effective
date of this chapter.
      (2)   When the intensity of use of any building or premises shall be
increased, additional parking and loading facilities as required herein shall
be provided.
      (3)   When the existing use of a building or land shall hereafter be
changed to a new use, parking and/or loading facilities shall be provided as
required for such new use.
      (4)   Existing parking facilities on the effective date of this chapter
shall not be reduced below the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Off-street parking.
      (1)   Accessory off-street parking facilities shall be provided for the
parking of passenger automobiles of patrons, occupants or employees.
      (2)   Design and maintenance:
         (a)   Accessory parking spaces may be open or enclosed.
         (b)   All maneuvering lanes shall be of sufficient width to permit
one-way traffic.
         (c)   Each parking space shall be ten feet by 20 feet and open
directly upon an aisle.
         (d)   All off-street parking facilities shall have appropriate means
of vehicular access to a street in a manner that will least interfere with
traffic movement.
         (e)   All access drives shall be hard surfaced and designed to
minimize surface water drainage into the public right-of-way.
         (f)   All parking areas shall be surfaced with a material that will
remain free from dust and shall be maintained in good condition, free of weeds,
dirt, trash and debris.
         (g)   Adequate drainage shall be provided to retain all surface water
on the property.
         (h)   All open commercial parking areas located adjacent to a
residential district shall be screened by plantings or a solid fence no less
than six feet in height.
         (i)   Lighting used to illuminate any parking area shall be so
located, shielded and directed so as to not reflect or cause glare onto
adjacent property or interfere with street traffic.
         (j)   All parking areas shall be provided with bumper guards or wheel
stops located in such a manner that no part of the parked vehicle extends
beyond the boundary of the established area. The lot shall be so laid out as to
prevent vehicular access to the street other than at approved access drives.
         (k)   Required off-street parking spaces shall not be located in any
district.
         (l)   Visibility clearance at street and alley intersections and
driveway entrances shall be in accordance with §
156.121 of this chapter.
   (D)   Minimum required parking spaces. In determining the minimum required
number of off-street spaces, the following instructions shall be applicable.
      (1)   For uses not specified or for which requirements are unclear, the
number of spaces shall be recommended by the Plan Commission and confirmed by
the Board of Zoning Appeals on the basis of similar or mixed uses, number of
persons served or employed and the capability of adequately serving the
visiting public.
      (2)   Net floor area shall mean the total horizontal areas, but shall not
include permanent storage areas, show windows, restrooms, elevators or
stairwells.
Use Off-Street Parking Minimum Spaces Required
Use                                     Off-Street Parking Minimum Spaces
                                        Required
Amusement establishments (i.e., skating
rinks, bowling alleys, racquetball,     1 parking space for each 500 sq. ft.
tennis, swimming pools and similar      gross floor or water area
uses)
Automobile service station              1 space for each 2 employees, plus 2
                                        spaces for each service stall
Barber shops and beauty shops           2 spaces per chair, plus 1 space for
                                        each 2 employees
Business, commercial and service        1 space per 250 sq. ft. of space, plus
establishments, except as otherwise     1 space for employees
specified
                                        1 space for each faculty member and
Business, vocational and trade schools  full-time employee, plus 1 space for
                                        each 8 students based on maximum design
                                        capacity
Churches, theaters, auditoriums and     1 space for each 8 seats based on
similar places of congregation          maximum seating capacity
                                        1 space for each employee, plus
Drive-in business and commercial        reservoir storage lanes to accommodate
establishments (i.e., food, banks,      maximum number of vehicles waiting for
cleaners and similar uses)              window service at any one time, plus
                                        additional parking as per interior
                                        space designed to serve customers
Eating and drinking establishments,     1 space for each 4 customer seats, plus
except drive-ins                        1 space for each 2 employees
Efficiency apartments                   1.25 spaces per dwelling unit
Funeral homes and mortuaries            8 spaces for each room used as a chapel
                                        or parlor
Golf courses                            4 spaces for each hole, plus 1 space
                                        for each employee
                                        1 space for each faculty member and
High school                             other full time employee, plus 1 space
                                        for each 25 students based on maximum
                                        design capacity
Homes for the aged                      1 space per every 3 units
                                        1 space for each sleeping room plus
Hotel, motels                           additional spaces for accessory uses
                                        (i.e., restaurants, lounges and the
                                        like)
                                        2 spaces for each examining or
Medical/dental clinics, doctors offices treatment room, plus 1 space for each
                                        doctor and regular employee
                                        2 spaces for each hole and 1 space for
Miniature golf courses, driving range   each driving area, plus 1 space for
                                        each employee
Nursery school, day care centers        1 space for each 8 children cared for
                                        and 1 space for each 2 employees
                                        1 space for each 4 beds, plus 1 space
Nursing homes, convalescent homes       for each 2 employees per. largest
                                        working shift
Open-air type businesses (i.e., auto,   1 space for each employee, plus
boat, RV, farm machinery sales,         adequate number of spaces to
nurseries and similar uses)             accommodate maximum number of patrons
                                        anticipated at a given time
                                        1 space for each employee, plus
                                        adequate number of spaces to serve the
Parks, recreation areas                 public according to facilities in the
                                        park and/or location of said park or
                                        recreation area
Private clubs, community centers        1 space for each 600 sq. ft. of net
                                        floor area
Residential - single-family, two-       2 spaces per dwelling unit
family, multi-family, mobile homes
Schools - elementary and/or junior high 1 space for each faculty member and
                                        other full-time employee
Warehouses, commercial establishments,  1 space for each 2 employees, plus
industrial, manufacturing, not catering adequate number of spaces for visitors
to the retail trade                     and company vehicles
 
   (E)   Off-street loading.
      (1)   Location. All required loading spaces shall be located on the same
lot as the use served. All loading spaces which abut a residential district
shall be completely screened by building walls, a uniformly solid fence, or a
combination thereof, of not less than six feet in height. No loading space
shall be located in a required front yard.
      (2)   Area. A required loading space shall be at least 12 feet in width
by 35 feet in length with vertical clearance of a minimum of 14 feet.
         (a)   Each space shall be designed with appropriate means of vehicle
access to a street in a manner which will least interfere with traffic
movement.
         (b)   All open off-street spaces shall be improved with surface water
drainage facilities and a hard surface pavement.
         (c)   Space allocated for loading space shall not be used to satisfy
the space requirements for off-street parking facilities.
      (3)   Space requirements. On the same premises with every structure
hereafter erected or enlarged, occupied for manufacturing, warehousing,
storage, retail/wholesale stores, or other uses involving the receipt or
distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise, there shall be provided
and maintained adequate space for standing, loading and unloading in order to
avoid undue interference with public use of the street or alley. The following
shall apply.
         (a)   Uses and buildings with a gross floor area of less than 10,000
square feet shall provide adequate receiving facilities so as not to obstruct
the free movement of pedestrians and vehicles over a sidewalk, street or alley.
         (b)   Not withstanding floor area, open air uses such as auto dealers,
farm machinery and similar uses shall provide off-street space for unloading of
merchandise.
         (c)   Uses and buildings with a net floor area of 10,000 square feet
or more shall provide off-street loading spaces as follows:
Use Floor Area Sq. Ft. Number Required
Use                                   Floor Area Sq. Ft.      Number Required
                                      10,000-25,000           1
Manufacturing, distribution,          25,000-60,000           2
wholesaling, storage and similar uses 60,000-100,000          3
                                      each additional 50,000  1
Office buildings, banks, hotels,      10,000-60,000           1
auditoriums, retail sales, hospitals  60,000-100,000          2
and similar uses                      each additional 100,000 1
 
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.123 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   No sign shall be erected at any location where the position, size,
shape, color, movement or illumination may interfere with, obstruct the view or
be confused with a traffic signal or sign or in any manner confuse traffic.
Consideration of traffic visibility and injurious effects on adjacent
properties is essential. All signs shall be designed, constructed and
maintained so as not to change the essential character of the area.
      (2)   All signs shall be constructed, connected, operated and maintained
according to the specifications of the applicable Building and Electrical
Codes.
      (3)   All signs shall be maintained in a good state of repair. Painted
faces or structural members shall be repainted whenever peeling or fading
occurs. Neon tubes, lamps, ballasts and transformers shall be kept in a good
state of repair and in safe condition. The Town may order the removal of any
sign that is not properly maintained.
      (4)   No sign shall be placed, erected or constructed on public right-of-
way other than those installed by a public agency for purposes of traffic
control and informational purposes.
      (5)   All signs hereafter erected shall be in accordance with the
visibility requirements as set forth in §
156.121 of this chapter.
      (6)   A building permit shall be obtained, before any of the signs listed
herein exceeding ten square feet in area, are erected or altered.
   (B)   Non-conforming signs.
      (1)   Any sign lawfully established prior to the effective date of this
chapter or amendments hereto, that does not conform to the regulations of this
chapter shall be deemed a nonconforming sign and may be continued, except as
provided by the provisions of this section and the provisions of §§
156.145 through
156.151 of this chapter.
      (2)   Expansion of such non-conforming signs, or the erection of signs
accessory to a nonconforming use, may be authorized only by the Board of Zoning
Appeals as a variance. No variance granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
exceed the size regulations for similar permitted signs.
   (C)   Special uses - signs. Signs accessory to a special use may be approved
as a part of the special use permit in accordance with the provisions of §§
156.100 through
156.107 of this chapter. If not specifically authorized and approved at the
time the special use is granted, plans shall be submitted for approval prior to
any sign being erected. Any proposed changes or alterations to an approved sign
shall follow the same approval procedures as for acquiring the special use
permit.
   (D)   Signs permitted in residential districts.
      (1)   A non-illuminated sign advertising the sale or rental of the
building or property, not exceeding eight square feet in area, placed no nearer
to the street line than one-half of the existing front yard depth.
      (2)   A non-illuminated sign announcing a legal home occupation that is
offered on the premises; provided that, such sign shall not exceed two square
foot in area and shall be attached flat against a building wall.
      (3)   A non-illuminated sign advertising a recorded subdivision or
development, not to exceed 32 square feet in area, and placed no closer to any
street right-of-way than one-third the minimum required front yard depth.
      (4)   One non-illuminated sign identifying a multiple-family building,
not to exceed 32 square feet in area, and placed no closer to any street right-
of-way line than one-third the minimum required front yard depth.
      (5)   Signs specifically authorized in authorized in connection with a
special use in conformance with the provisions of §§
156.100 through
156.107 of this chapter.
   (E)   Signs permitted in commercial and industrial districts.
      (1)   A sign in any commercial or industrial district is permitted only
where it advertises a business occupying the same lot upon which the sign is
erected. Signs shall conform to the building setback and height requirements,
except for and in addition to, the requirements provided below:
         (a)   In any commercial or industrial district, a sign may be affixed
flat against the wall of the building, or may project therefrom not more than
48 inches; provided that, such signs do hot project over a sidewalk or public
right-of-way. Projecting signs shall be at least 12 feet above finished grade.
The total sign area shall not exceed one square foot for each foot in length or
height of the wall, whichever is greater, to which it is affixed. No such sign
shall extend more than four feet in height above the building to which it is
affixed.
         (b)   In the C-3 Commercial District, one freestanding identification
sign may be erected for a shopping center or other integrated group of stores
or commercial buildings. The area for said sign shall not exceed 200 square
feet, nor be closer to the front, side or rear property line than one-third the
distance of the required building set-back.
         (c)   One free-standing identification sign may be erected for each
separate enterprise situated on an individual lot, in any commercial or
industrial district other than the C-2 and C-3 Districts. Such sign shall not
exceed 80 square feet in area, nor be closer to any street right-of-way line
than one-half the minimum required front yard depth.
         (d)   All signs may be illuminated internally or by reflected light
provided the source of light is not directly visible and is arranged to reflect
away from the adjoining premises; further provided that, such illumination
shall not be so placed as to cause confusion or hazard to traffic or conflict
with traffic control signs or lights.
      (2)   No illumination involving movement by reason of the lighting
arrangement or other devices shall be permitted.
   (F)   Outdoor advertising signs.
      (1)   Outdoor advertising signs (billboards) are permitted only in the C-
4 Commercial and in the industrial districts.
         (a)   Outdoor advertising signs are required to have the same setback
as other principal structures or buildings in the zone in which they are
situated.
         (b)   Where two or more outdoor advertising signs are along the
frontage of a single street or highway on the same side of the roadway, they
shall not be less than 500 feet apart. A double face (back to back) or a V-type
structure shall be considered a single sign.
         (c)   The total surface area, facing in the same direction of any
outdoor advertising sign shall not exceed 300 square feet.
         (d)   No outdoor advertising sign shall be erected on the roof of any
building, nor have one sign above another sign.
         (e)   Outdoor advertising signs may be illuminated by reflected light
only, provided the source of light is not directly visible and is so arranged
to reflect away from the adjoining premises; further provided that, such
illumination shall not be so placed as to cause confusion or a hazard to
traffic or conflict with traffic-control signs.
      (2)   No illumination involving movement by reason of the lighting
arrangement or other devices shall be permitted.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.124 SWIMMING POOLS, PRIVATE.
   (A)   A private swimming pool shall be permitted in the side and/or rear
yards of all districts.
   (B)   All swimming pools shall be enclosed by a fence, wall or other
structure which shall be at least five feet in height; any opening under the
bottom of the fence shall not be more than four inches in height. The gate of
the enclosure shall be self-latching with the latch placed four feet above the
underlying ground. The enclosure shall be maintained in a secure condition at
all times.
   (C)   A swimming pool extending one foot or less above the adjacent ground
level shall be located a minimum of five feet from all property lines. An above
ground pool extending more than one foot above ground level shall be located a
minimum of 15 feet from all property lines.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.125 PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE(S) PER LOT.
   In any district, more than one principal structure housing a permitted use,
may be constructed on a single parcel of land; provided that, all requirements
of this chapter shall be met for each principal structure and accessory
structure, as though it were on an individual lot. Further, the provision for
street access, as required in §
156.126 of this chapter, are to be met for each principal structure.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.126 STREET ACCESS; ALL PRINCIPAL STRUCTURES.
   Every principal structure shall have direct access to a public street, or to
an approved private street, and all structures shall be so located on lots as
to provide safe and convenient access for servicing, fire protection, emergency
vehicles and required off-street parking.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.127 INDIVIDUAL MOBILE HOMES; TEMPORARY USE.
   (A)   Temporary use of a mobile home located in other than a permitted area
shall be by special use permit in accordance with the provisions established in
§§
156.100 through
156.107 of this chapter.
   (B)   The basis for authorization of a temporary special use permit shall be
evidence of undue hardship such as during reconstruction of a home on the site
after natural disaster, or hardship of a like nature.
      (1)   The special use permit shall provide for conformance with proper
connection to water and sanitary sewer systems. A time limit upon such use
shall be made and extension of the original time shall be contingent upon
timely progress being made on the reconstruction of said home or other special
circumstances that may be demonstrated.
      (2)   The mobile home shall be removed from the premises promptly upon
completion of the reconstruction or special circumstance or at the end of the
time limit provided, whichever shall come first.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.128 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, a HOME OCCUPATION shall be
interpreted as an occupation or hobby carried on by a member of the immediate
family residing on the premises which is clearly incidental to the use of the
dwelling unit for residential purposes. The home occupation shall be carried on
wholly within the principal building or an existing accessory building.
   (B)   No person may be employed other than a member of the immediate family.
   (C)   There shall be no indication from the exterior that the building is
being utilized for any purpose other than that of a residence.
   (D)   No sign shall be permitted other than a nameplate, no larger than two
square feet in area, mounted flush against the structure.
   (E)   No commodity shall be sold on the premises.
   (F)   No electric or mechanical equipment shall be installed or maintained
other than such customarily incidental to domestic use.
   (G)   Doctors’ offices, dentists’ offices, barber shops, beauty shops,
kennels, among other uses shall not be deemed to be “home occupations”.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.129 TREES PERMITTED IN TREE LAWN.
   Only hardwood trees shall be planted in the public right-of-way between the
curb and the sidewalk. No trees shall be planted in any tree lawn that is less
than five feet in width. The spacing of trees in the tree lawn areas shall be
not less than 40 feet apart.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.130 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses are defined in §
156.010 of this chapter and the following regulations shall apply to said
accessory uses.
   (A)   Accessory buildings may only be constructed subsequent to the
principal use being established and a building permit obtained for the
principal building. No accessory building shall be used prior to the principal
building or use, except as a construction facility for such principal use
during construction. At no time shall it be used for residential purposes.
   (B)   Accessory buildings shall not exceed 14 feet, nor one story in height,
unless specifically permitted in a given district.
   (C)   No accessory building shall be erected in any required front yard area
or required side yard area abutting a street.
   (D)   In residential districts, an accessory building may be erected in the
rear quarter of the lot and shall be located ten feet from the rear lot line
and maintain the same side yard requirements as the principal building.
   (E)   Accessory buildings in a commercial or industrial district may occupy
the rear yard space; provided that, such buildings do not occupy more than 45%
of said space and shall be located no less than ten feet from the rear property
line. If said rear line abuts a residential district, the greater distance
shall prevail as prescribed in the district regulations.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.131 PRIVATE STREETS.
   Any street within a development which has not been dedicated to the Town for
public use, shall be of sufficient width to permit easy access by emergency
vehicles. No street shall be dead-ended in a manner that would require an
emergency vehicle to back up in order to turn around. No cul-de-sac shall be
constructed with less than a 50-foot radius.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.132 ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   The regulations of this chapter shall not be interpreted as to limit or
interfere with the construction, installation, operation and maintenance for
public utility purposes of water and gas pipes, mains and conduits; electric
light and power transmission and distribution lines, or telephone service lines
which have been approved for installation by the Town Council.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.133 HARBORING OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS, BIRDS, BEES, REPTILES.
   The harboring or keeping of any animals, birds, bees or reptiles that may
endanger the health or safety or infringe upon the rights of others shall be
prohibited.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
NON-CONFORMING BUILDINGS, USES AND LOTS
§ 156.145 INTENDED PURPOSE.
   Within the districts established by this chapter, there exists lots, land,
structures and uses which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted under
the terms of this chapter. It is the intent of this chapter to permit these
non-conformities to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their
continuation. Non-conforming uses are declared by this chapter to be
incompatible with permitted uses in the districts involved.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.146 NON-CONFORMING LOTS.
   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a single-
family dwelling and accessory building may be erected on any single lot of
record at the effective date of adoption of this chapter; provided, such lot is
not less than 5,000 square feet and 50 feet in width at the established
building line and is served by both municipal sewer and water. Further,
provided there is compliance with all other regulations contained in this
chapter as to setback dimensions and other applicable ordinances, regulations
and codes of the Town.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.147 NON-CONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   (A)   Where at the time of passage of this chapter, lawful use of land
exists which would not be permitted by the regulations imposed by this chapter,
the use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful.
   (B)   No such non-conforming use shall be enlarged or increased, or extended
to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of
adoption of this chapter.
   (C)   No such non-conforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such use at the
effective date of adoption of this chapter.
   (D)   If any such non-conforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
continuous period of one year, any subsequent use of land shall conform to the
regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which such land is
located.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.148 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption of
this chapter, that could not be built under the terms of this chapter by reason
of restrictions of area, height, yards, its location on the lot or other
requirements concerning the structure, such structure may be continued so long
as it remains otherwise lawful.
   (B)   No such non-conforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way
which increases its non- conformity, but any structure or portion thereof may
be altered to decrease its non-conformity.
   (C)   Should such non-conforming structure or nonconforming portion of a
structure be involuntarily damaged or destroyed by fire, explosion, windstorm
or other similar cause, to an extent of more than 75% of its replacement cost
at the time of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed, except in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.149 NON-CONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES AND LAND.
   (A)   If a lawful use of a structure and land exists at the effective date
of adoption of this chapter that would not be allowed in the district under the
terms of this chapter, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful.
   (B)   An existing structure, devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter,
in the district in which it is located, may be enlarged, extended or
structurally altered by no more than 25% increase of the area of said building
at the date of adoption of this chapter; and provided further that, any
alteration, extension or addition shall conform with height, area, width and
yard requirements for the district in which it is located.
   (C)   A non-conforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use, and which
existed at the time of adoption of this chapter. No such use shall be extended
to occupy any land outside such building.
   (D)   (1)   In a commercial or industrial district, a non-conforming use of
a structure and premises may be changed to another non-conforming use of the
same or more restricted classification; provided that, said proposed use is
equally appropriate or more appropriate to the district than the existing non-
conforming use.
      (2)   The final decision as to whether such a change in non-conforming
usage will be permitted shall be by the Town Council. No authorization shall be
granted until a public hearing has been held by the Plan Commission and its
recommendations considered by the Town Council. The legal procedure to be
followed prior to a decision being rendered shall be the same as that outlined
for special use in §
156.104 of this chapter.
      (3)   Conditions and restrictions may be applied as part of the
authorization if deemed necessary by the Town Council.
   (E)   When a non-conforming use is replaced by a permitted use, it shall
thereafter conform to the regulations for the district, and a non-conforming
use may not thereafter be resumed.
   (F)   When a non-conforming use of a structure and premises is discontinued
or abandoned for 12 consecutive months, the structure and premises, shall not
thereafter be used, except in conformity with the regulations of the district
in which it is located.
   (G)   Should such non-conforming structure be involuntarily damaged or
destroyed by fire, explosion, windstorm or other similar cause to an extent of
75% or more, of the replacement cost at the time of destruction, the
destruction of the structure shall eliminate the nonconforming status of both
the structure and the land on which it is located.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.150 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   On any building devoted in whole or in part to any non-conforming use,
normal day to day maintenance, including repair or replacement of non-bearing
walls, necessary wiring, plumbing, roofing or the strengthening or restoring to
a safe condition, any part of the building, shall be permitted.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.151 CHANGE OF TENANCY OR OWNERSHIP.
   There may be a change of tenancy, ownership or management of any existing
non-conforming use of land, structure and premises; provided, there is no
change in the nature or character of such non- conforming use, except as
provided within this chapter.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a complaint with the Building Official. The
Building Official shall record such complaint and immediately investigate.
   (B)   If the investigation establishes a reasonable belief that a violation
has occurred, the Building Official shall notify the parties involved of the
alleged violation. If the violation is not corrected, the Building Official
shall file with the Town Attorney a complaint requesting action thereon as
provided by and in accordance with law.
   (C)   Any person or agent in charge of such building or land who violates,
disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or amendment thereof shall be fined, upon conviction, not more than a
sum as set out in the Appendix: Fines and Penalties in
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances for each days violation, plus cost of
prosecution. Each and every day during which any illegal erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, maintenance or use continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
   (D)   The Plan Commission, the Board of Zoning Appeals, the Town Attorney or
the Town Council may institute a suit for injunction to restrain any person
from violating the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 9-80, passed 12-15-1980)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
      
III.   ANNEXATIONS
      
IV.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
V.   STREET NAME CHANGES
TABLE I: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
1997-1        4-7-1997    Wholesale power supply agreement between the Town and
                          the Cinergy Companies
-             3-18-2002   Mutual aid agreement between the County Health
                          Department and community public water supply systems
                          Conditional award of construction contract (Phase IV
R. 2002-04    4-1-2002    water system improvement project, water tower) to
                          Caldwell Tanks, Inc
2007-4        8-6-2007    Second amendatory agreement to a power sales contract
                          between the Town and Indiana Municipal Power Agency
                         
 
TABLE II: ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
R. 7-98       - -         104 Industrial Park Drive
R. 99-3       - -         Newcor, Inc.
R. 99-3A      - -         Newcor, Inc.
R. 2004-2A    3-1-2004    Walnut Crossing Development
R. 2004-2     4-5-2004    Walnut Crossing Development
R. 2004-5     4-5-2004    Magnesium Technologies, Inc.
R. 2004-5A    5-3-2004    Magnesium Technologies, Inc.
R. 2013-11    11-18-2013  106 Fulmer Street
                         
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
85-7          - -1985     Several tracts of land; over five acres
                          Northeast corner of the south half of the northwest
96-2          11-18-1996  quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 25,
                          Township 35 North, Range 1 West; 0.56 acre
2001-11       8-6-2001    Northwest corner of Tyler Road and Walnut Road; 76.53
                          acres
                          Part of the east half of the southwest quarter of
2001-12       11-19-2001  Section 13, Township 35 North, Range 1 West; over 82
                          acres
R. 2002-Ri5   - -         Walkerton Trail at the southeast area of the Town;
                          39.6 acres
2002-05       7-15-2002   Amending Ord. 2001-12
2002-16       11-4-2002   Real estate near the southeast area of the Town;
                          36.13 acres
2004-4        - -         West half of the southeast quarter of Section 13,
                          Township 35 North, Range 1 West; three acres
R. 2004-9     9-20-2004   Southeast corner of Walnut Road and S.R. 23; three
                          acres
                         
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
1983- - -    Lot 11 of Rupel’s Fifth Addition; R-2
7     1983
1983- - -    Lot 122 of the original Town plat; R-2
8     1983
1983- 10-17- Lot Seven of Hasting’s Addition; masonry building
13    1983
1983- 10-17- Southwest quarter of Section 24, Township 35 North, Range 1 West;
14    1983   from R-1 to C-4
83-16 12-19- St. Patrick’s Church; moving a building
      1983
1998- 7-6-   Part of the northwest quarter of the southwest quarter and part of
4     1998   the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 24,
             Township 35 North, Range 1 West; from R-1 to C-4
2000- 5-7-   Part of the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section
3     2001   23, Township 35 North, Range 1 West; from I-1 and R-1 to C-4
2005- 2-24-  Lots One, Two and Three of Rupel’s Fifth Addition; from R-1 to R-3
1     2005
            
 
TABLE V: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
1982-11       12- -1982   Renaming a part of S.R. 23 to Lake Street
R. 2002-R11   12-2-2002   Renaming a portion of Kentucky Street to Legion Drive
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 2005 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites                     Code Section
1-1-1-5                        10.04
1-1-1-7                        10.12
1-1-1-8                        10.06
1-1-4-5                        10.05,
                               11.01
1-1-4-6                        11.01
1-1-5-1                        10.11
1-1-6-1                        10.08
3-8-5-2(a)                     30.020
3-8-5-2(c)                     30.020
5-3-1                          33.40,
                               92.22
5-11-1-27(j)                   34.12
5-14-1.5-1 et seq.             30.036
5-14-1.5-5(d)                  30.036
5-22                           33.01
8-1.5-3 et seq.                51.25
9-13-2-121                     70.01
9-13-2-175                     70.01
9-14-1 et seq.                 92.01
9-17-2-12                      34.11
9-18-12                        92.23
9-22-1-1 et seq.               92.20
14-28-1                        154.34
14-28-1-26                     154.34
14-28-4                        154.01
15-2.1-6-1 through 15-2.1-6-13 91.25
18-1-21-1 et seq.              53.16
18-6-4.5-1 et seq.             32.07
18-7-4-901 through 18-7-4-920  156.043
22-9-1-4 et seq.               95.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.               95.01
22-9.5-2-2                     95.02
22-9.5-2-3                     95.02
22-9.5-2-4                     95.02
22-9.5-2-8                     95.02
22-9.5-2-9                     95.02
22-9.5-2-11                    95.02
22-9.5-2-13                    95.02
22-9.5-3                       95.03,
                               95.10
22-9.5-4-8                     95.11
22-9.5-5                       95.02
22-9.5-5-1                     95.03
22-9.5-6                       95.02,
                               95.11
22-12-7                        151.17
22-13-2-11                     151.17
33-36-1-1 et seq.              31.01
34-28-5-1 et seq.              70.99
36-1-5-4                       11.01
36-5-2-2                       10.15
36-5-2-5                       11.01
36-5-3-2                       30.003
36-5-3-2(b)                    30.003
36-7-4                         154.01,
                               156.042
36-7-4-900 et seq.             156.043
36-7-4-919                     152.04
36-7-9                         151.30
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28     151.31
36-7-9-2                       151.36
36-7-9-4                       151.35
36-7-9-28                      151.99
36-7-14-41(c)                  30.082
36-8-3                         32.12
36-8-3-4                       30.075
36-8-3-4.1                     30.075
36-8-8-0.1 et seq.             34.02
36-8-9-1 et seq.               30.075
36-8-9-8                       30.075
36-8-14                        32.08
36-8-19                        30.078
36-8-19-6(c)(3)                30.078
36-8-19-8                      30.078
36-9-16-2                      32.08
36-9-16-3                      32.08
36-9-16.5                      32.08
36-9-17                        32.08
36-9-37-46                     32.11
36-10-3                        30.079
36-10-3-17                     30.079
36-10-3-21                     32.08
                               
 
REFERENCES TO 2005 CODE
2005 Code 2016 Code
2005 Code        2016 Code
1.04             10.18
1.05             10.18
1.06             10.18
1.09             10.99,
                 31.04
1.10             10.99
1.12             10.19
2.08             10.17
3.07             10.05
3.09             10.05
3.10             10.05
3.12             10.05
3.13             10.05
3.14             10.05
3.15             10.05
3.18             10.05
4.01             30.060
4.02             30.061
4.03             30.062
4.04             30.063
4.05             30.064
10.01            30.035
10.02            30.036
10.03            30.036
10.04            30.037
10.05            30.038
10.06            30.039
10.07            30.040
10.09            30.041
10.10            30.042
10.11            30.043
10.12            30.044
10.13            30.045
11.01            30.001
11.02            30.002
11.03            30.003
11.04            30.004
11.05            30.005
11.07            30.006
11.08            30.007
12.01            11.01
12.02            11.01
12.03            11.01
12.04            11.01
12.05            11.01
12.06            11.01
12.07            11.01
12.08            11.01
13.01            30.081
13.02            30.081
13.03            30.081
14.01            30.080
14.02            30.080
14.03            30.080
14.04            30.080
14.05            30.080
14.06            30.080
14.07            30.080
14.08            30.080
14.09            30.080
14.10            30.999,
                 31.04
17.01            30.008
17.02            30.008
17.03            30.008
17.04            30.008
17.05            30.008
18.01            30.079
18.02            30.079
18.03            30.079
18.04            30.079
18.05            30.079
18.06            30.079
18.07            30.079
18.08            30.079
21.01            32.07
21.02            32.07
21.03            32.07
21.04            32.07
21.05            32.07
21.10            32.07
22.01            34.01
22.02            34.01,
                 35.01
22.03            34.01
22.04            34.01
22.05            34.01
22.06            34.01
22.07            34.01
22.08            34.01
25.01            33.01
25.02            33.01
25.03            33.01
25.04            33.01
Ch. 25, II, § 1 33.15
Ch. 25, II, § 2 33.16
Ch. 25, II, § 3 33.17
Ch. 25, II, § 4 33.18
Ch. 25, II, § 5 33.19
Ch. 25, II, § 6 33.20
Ch. 25, II, § 7 33.21
Ch. 25, II, § 8 33.22
Ch. 25, II, § 9 33.23
Ch. 25, II, § 1033.24
Ch. 25, III, § 133.40
Ch. 25, III, § 233.41
Ch. 25, III, § 333.42
29.01            30.077
29.02            30.077
29.03            30.077
29.04            30.077
31.01            32.11
31.02            32.10
31.03            32.12
32.01            32.08
32.02            32.08
32.03            32.08
32.04            32.08
32.05            32.08
32.06            32.08
32.07            32.08
40.01            117.01
40.02            117.02
41.01            116.30
41.02            116.31
41.03            116.32
41.04            116.33
41.05            116.34
41.06            116.35
41.07            116.35
41.08            116.36
                 31.04,
41.09            35.01,
                 116.32
42.01            110.01
42.02            110.02
42.03            110.03
42.04            110.03
42.05            110.04
42.06            110.01
43.01            116.01
43.02            116.02
43.03            116.03
43.04            116.04
43.05            35.01,
                 116.05
43.06            116.06
43.07            116.07
43.08            116.08
43.09            116.09
43.10            116.10
43.11            116.11
43.12            116.12
43.13            116.13
43.14            116.14
43.15            116.15
43.16            116.16
43.17            116.17
43.18            116.18
43.19            31.04,
                 116.99
44.01            115.01
44.02            115.20
44.03            115.20
44.04            115.21
44.05            35.01,
                 115.22
44.06            115.23
44.07            115.24
44.08            115.25
44.09            115.26
44.10            115.27
44.11            115.02
44.12            115.28
44.13            115.03
44.14            115.04
44.15            115.05
46.01            95.25
46.02            95.26
46.03            95.27
46.04            95.28
46.05            95.29
46.06            95.29
47.01            94.01
47.02            94.02
47.03            94.03
47.04            94.04
47.05            94.05
47.07            31.04,
                 94.99
47.08            94.06
48.01            150.02
48.02            150.02
48.03            150.02
48.04            150.02
50.01            93.01
50.02            35.01,
                 93.02
50.03            93.03
50.04            93.04
58.01            92.20—
                 92.23
59.1             70.01
59.2             70.02
59.3             70.03
59.4             70.04
59.5             70.05
59.6             70.06
59.7             70.06
59.8             70.06
59.9             70.07
59.10            70.08
59.11            70.09
59.12            70.10
59.13            70.11
59.14            31.04,
                 70.99
59.15            70.99
59.16            70.99
59.17            70.12
59.19            70.13
60.02            70.25
60.03            70.26
60.04            70.27
60.05            70.28
60.07            70.29
60.08            70.30
60.11            34.11,
                 35.01
60.12            70.31
61.01            74.01
61.02            74.02
61.03            74.03
61.04            74.04
61.05            74.05
61.06            74.05
61.07            74.06
61.08            74.06
61.09            74.07
61.10            74.08
61.11            74.09
61.12            74.10
61.13            74.11
61.14            74.12
61.15            74.25
61.16            74.25
61.17            74.26
61.18            74.27
61.19            74.28
61.20            74.29
61.21            74.30
61.22            74.31
61.23            74.31
61.24            74.31
61.25            74.32
61.26            74.33
61.27            74.34
61.28            74.35
61.29            74.36
61.30            74.37
61.31            74.38
61.32            74.39
61.33            74.40
61.34            74.41
61.35            74.42
62.01            75.01
62.02            75.02
62.03            75.03
62.04            75.04
62.05            75.05
62.06            75.06
62.07            75.07
62.08            75.08
62.09            75.09
62.10            75.10
62.11            75.10
62.12            75.25
62.13            75.26
62.14            75.27
62.15            31.04,
                 75.99
62.21            75.40
62.22            75.41
62.23            75.42
62.24            75.43
62.25            75.44
62.26            75.45
62.27            75.46
62.28            75.47
62.30            75.48
62.31            75.49
62.32            75.42
62.33            75.42
62.34            31.04,
                 75.99
62.50            75.11
62.71            75.12
62.72            75.12
62.73            31.04,
                 75.99
62.74            31.04,
                 75.99
63.01            70.45
63.02            70.46
63.03            70.47
63.04            70.48
64.01            71.01
64.02            71.02
64.03            71.03
64.04            71.04
64.05            71.05
64.06            71.06
64.07            71.07
64.08            71.08
64.09            71.09
64.10            71.10
65.01            73.20
65.02            73.21
65.03            73.22
65.04            73.23
66.01            73.01
66.02            73.02
66.03            73.03
66.04            73.04
66.05            73.05
66.06            73.06
66.07            73.07
67.01            72.01
67.02            72.02
67.03            72.03
67.04            72.04
67.05            72.05
67.06            72.06
67.07            72.07
67.08            72.07
67.09            72.07
67.10            72.08
67.11            72.09
67.12            72.10
67.13            72.11
67.14            72.13
67.60            72.14
68.1             114.01
68.2             114.02
68.3             114.03
68.4             31.04,
                 114.99
70.10            52.01
70.20            52.02
70.21            52.03
70.30            52.04
70.31            52.05
70.32            52.06
70.33            52.07
70.34            52.07
70.35            52.08
70.38            52.09
70.39            52.09
70.40            52.09
70.41            52.10
70.60            31.04,
                 52.99
70.70            52.11
70.81            94.35
70.82            94.36
70.83            94.37
70.84            94.38
70.85            94.39
70.86            94.40
70.87            31.04,
                 94.99
71.01            91.01
71.02            91.15
71.03            91.16
71.04            91.17
71.05            91.18
71.06            91.19
71.07            91.20
71.08            91.21
71.09            91.22,
                 91.23
71.10            91.24
71.11            91.25
71.12            91.26
71.13            91.27
71.14            91.28
71.15            91.29
71.16            91.30
71.17            91.31
71.18            91.32
71.19            91.33
                 31.04,
71.21            91.45,
                 91.99
71.22            91.46
71.23            91.47
71.24            91.48
71.29            91.02
71.30            91.03
72.01            92.01
72.02            92.02
72.03            92.03
72.06            31.04,
                 92.99
73.01            130.01
73.02            130.02
73.03            130.03
73.04            130.04
73.05            130.05
73.06            130.06
73.07            130.07
73.08            130.07
73.09            130.99
74.01            113.01
74.02            113.02
74.03            113.03
74.04            113.04
74.05            113.05
74.06            113.06
74.07            113.07
74.08            113.07
74.09            113.08
74.10            113.08
74.11            113.09
74.12            113.10
75.01            90.03
75.02            90.05
90.01            153.01
90.02            35.01,
                 153.02
90.03            153.03
90.04            35.01,
                 153.04
91.01            153.35
91.02            153.36
91.03            153.37
91.04            153.38
91.05            153.38
91.06            153.39
91.21            153.40
91.22            35.01,
                 153.40
91.23            153.40
91.24            153.40
91.25            153.40
91.26            153.40
91.27            153.40
91.28            153.40
92.01            153.15
92.02            153.16
92.03            153.17
92.04            153.18
92.05            153.19
92.06            153.20
92.07            35.01,
                 153.21
92.08            153.22
92.09            153.23
92.10            31.04,
                 153.99
95.1             112.01
95.2             112.02
95.3             112.15
95.4             112.16
95.5             112.17
95.6             112.18
95.7             112.19
95.8             112.20
95.9             112.21
95.10            112.22
95.11            112.23
95.12            112.24
95.13            112.25
95.14            112.26
95.15            112.27
95.16            112.28
95.17            112.29
95.18            112.30
95.19            112.31
95.20            112.32
95.21            112.33
95.22            31.04,
                 112.99
95.23            112.34
95.24            112.35
95.25            112.36
100.03           54.015
100.05           54.016
100.06           54.017
100.07           54.015
100.08           54.015
100.09           54.015
100.10           54.018
100.11           54.019
100.12           54.020
100.50           54.035
100.51           54.036
100.52           54.037
100.53           35.01,
                 54.038
100.54           35.01,
                 54.039
100.55           54.040
100.56           54.041
100.57           54.042
100.58           54.043
100.59           54.044
100.60           54.045,
                 54.050
100.61           54.045
100.62           54.046
100.63           54.047
100.64           54.048
100.65           54.049
100.67           31.04,
                 54.999
101.01           54.003
101.02           54.003
101.03           54.003
101.04           54.003
101.05           54.003
101.06           54.003
101.07           54.003
102.01           54.065
102.02           54.066
102.03           54.067
102.04           35.01,
                 54.068
102.05           35.01,
                 54.069
102.06           54.070
102.07           54.070
102.08           54.071
102.09           54.072
102.10           54.073
102.11           54.074
102.12           54.075
102.13           54.076
102.14           54.077
102.15           54.078
102.16           54.079
102.17           54.080
102.18           54.081
102.19           54.082
102.20           54.083
                 31.04,
                 35.01,
102.21           54.095—
                 54.102 ,
                 54.999
102.22           35.01,
                 54.084
104.01           53.16
104.02           53.16
104.03           53.16
104.04           53.17
104.05           53.18
104.101          53.30
104.102          53.15
104.103          53.31
104.104          53.32
104.105          53.33
104.106          35.01,
                 53.34
104.107          53.35
104.108          35.01,
                 53.36
104.109          53.37
104.110          53.38
104.111          31.04,
                 53.39
104.112          53.40
104.113          53.41
104.114          53.42
104.115          53.43
104.116          53.44
104.117          35.01,
                 53.45
104.118          53.46
104.119          53.47
104.120          35.01,
                 53.48
104.121          53.49
104.122          53.50
104.123          53.51
104.124          53.52
120.1            151.01
120.2            151.02
120.3            151.03
120.4            151.04
120.5            151.05
120.6            151.06
120.7            151.07
120.8            151.08
120.9            35.01,
                 151.09
120.10           151.10
120.11           151.11
120.12           151.12
120.13           151.13
120.14           151.14
120.15           151.15
120.16           151.16
120.17           151.17
120.18           151.18
120.19           31.04,
                 151.99
123.1            152.01
123.2            152.02
123.3            152.03
123.4            152.04
123.5            31.04,
                 152.99
125.1            151.30
125.2            151.31
125.3            151.32
125.4            151.33
125.5            151.34
125.6            151.35
125.7            151.36
125.8            151.37
125.10           151.38,
                 151.99
                 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
7-98     - -         TSO II
99-3     - -         TSO II
99-3A    - -         TSO II
2002-Ri5 - -         TSO III
-        6-15-1971   34.02
98-1     4-6-1998    34.10
-        11-20-2000  34.09
2002-03  3-18-2002   53.01
2002-04  4-1-2002    TSO I
2002-R11 12-2-2002   TSO V
2004-2A  3-1-2004    TSO II
2004-2   4-5-2004    TSO II
2004-5   4-5-2004    TSO II
2004-5A  5-3-2004    TSO II
2004-6   6-7-2004    52.05
2004-8   9-7-2004    32.25
2004-9   9-20-2004   TSO III
2005-1   5-16-2005   30.082,
                     150.01
-        7-17-2006   34.08
6        9-17-2007   54.001
2007-12  12-15-2007  34.07
2008-1   5-5-2008    54.002
2010-1   - -2010     30.078
2012-R5  3-5-2012    34.03
2012-R6  3-5-2012    34.03
2012-7   4-2-2012    50.01
2013-6   5-6-2013    30.082
2013-11  10-21-2013  34.04
2013-11  11-18-2013  TSO II
-        12-15-2014  34.02
-        10-5-2015   34.02
2016-1   2-1-2016    34.12
2019-5   8-5-2019    34.14,
                     35.01
2020-21  7-20-2020   30.002,
                     30.075
2022-2   2-28-2022   51.10
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     31.04,
                     155.001—
                     155.013,
                     155.025—
                     155.029,
-        - -         155.040—
                     155.046,
                     155.060—
                     155.070,
                     155.085—
                     155.098,
                     155.999
2001-17  - -         151.07
2004-4   - -         TSO III
                     31.04,
                     156.001—
                     156.010,
                     156.025—
                     156.027,
                     156.040—
                     156.047,
                     156.060,
9-80     12-15-1980  156.061,
                     156.075—
                     156.085,
                     156.100—
                     156.107,
                     156.120—
                     156.133,
                     156.145—
                     156.151,
                     156.999
1982-7   8-30-1982   32.10
                     31.04,
1982-8   8-30-1982   152.01—
                     152.04,
                     152.99
1982-9   10-18-1982  150.02
-        12- -1982   11.01
1982-11  12- -1982   TSO V
1982-12  12- -1982   30.002
1982-10  12-20-1982  30.008
1983-7   - -1983     TSO IV
1983-8   - -1983     TSO IV
1983-13  10-17-1983  TSO IV
1983-14  10-17-1983  TSO IV
1983-15  10-17-1983  30.077
83-16    12-19-1983  TSO IV
1983-17  12-19-1983  34.11,
                     35.01
85-7     - -1985     TSO III
86-003   7-28-1986   70.45—
                     70.48
                     31.04,
                     91.01—
                     91.03,
1992-04  10-19-1992  91.15—
                     91.33,
                     91.45—
                     91.48,
                     91.99
4-1994   - -1994     32.07
96-2     11-18-1996  TSO III
1997-1   4-7-1997    TSO I
1997-2   8-4-1997    32.09
1997-3   10-20-1997  156.120
                     35.01,
1997-4   10-20-1997  113.07,
                     151.05,
                     151.09
1998-5   - -1998     32.08
-        7-6-1998    33.40—
                     33.42
1998-4   7-6-1998    TSO IV
1998-6   7-6-1998    33.01
1998-7   7-6-1998    33.15—
                     33.24
1998-8   7-6-1998    33.22
                     35.01,
1998-9   9-8-1998    93.01—
                     93.04
2001-3B  1-15-2001   130.05
2001-04  4-21-2001   30.076
2000-3   5-7-2001    TSO IV
                     31.04,
                     35.01,
2001-07  6-4-2001    153.18,
                     153.20,
                     153.21,
                     153.99
                     31.04,
2001-08  6-4-2001    111.01—
                     111.06,
                     111.99
2001-09  7-16-2001   92.20—
                     92.23
2001-11  8-6-2001    TSO III
2001-12  11-19-2001  TSO III
2002-07  - -2002     32.10
-        3-18-2002   TSO I
2002-05  7-15-2002   TSO III
2002-08  9-3-2002    11.01
2002-16  11-4-2002   TSO III
2002-17  12-16-2002  35.01,
                     53.36
2003-7   8-4-2003    35.01,
                     53.36
2005-1   2-24-2005   TSO IV
2005-02  4-18-2005   32.06
2005-03  4-18-2005   32.03
2003-5   6-23-2005   54.015
2005-4   8-1-2005    32.04
2005-5   9-6-2005    32.05
2005-6   10-17-2005  54.015
2006-4   5-15-2006   114.02
2006-5   6-19-2006   35.01,
                     116.32
2006-9   10-2-2006   32.02
2006-8   11-6-2006   30.062
2007-1   - -2007     35.01,
                     151.09
2007-2   5-21-2007   54.015
2007-4   8-6-2007    TSO I
                     31.04,
2007-9   10-15-2007  94.20—
                     94.23,
                     94.99
2007-10  11-5-2007   32.01
2008-1   3-17-2008   34.06
2008-2A  5-19-2008   34.05
2008-3   9-15-2008   53.31
2008-4   9-15-2008   54.015
                     31.04,
                     154.01—
                     154.16,
                     154.30—
2010-7   12- -2010   154.37,
                     154.50,
                     154.51,
                     154.65—
                     154.69,
                     154.99
                     35.01,
2010-4   12-20-2010  51.01—
                     51.08
293-1    4-15-2013   30.082
                     31.04,
2014-1   1-20-2014   95.01—
                     95.11
2014-15  10-6-2014   30.020
2014-16  12-15-2014  30.075
                     31.04,
2015-19  11-16-2015  35.01,
                     55.01—
                     55.07
2016-1   - -2016     33.25
2016-2   5-16-2016   32.13
2016-3   6-6-2016    31.01—
                     31.04
2016-4   7-18-2016   34.13
2017-3   8-7-2017    35.01
2017-4   8-7-2017    53.31
2017-8   12-18-2017  35.01
2017-9   1-8-2018    74.43
2017-10  3-5-2018    51.09
                     35.01,
2018-8   12-18-2018  51.01—
                     51.08
2018-12  12-6-2018   53.31
2021-7   1-24-2022   91.22
2022-1   1-24-2022   51.25—
                     51.28
                     35.01,
2022-3   7-11-2022   51.01—
                     51.08
                    
 
