WARREN, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through 11-14-16
State legislation current through 2017 A.L.S. #5
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:  http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   TOWN SEAL
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Definitions
   
10.05   Rules of construction
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Construction of section references
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Severability
   
10.10   Reference to offices
   
10.11   Errors and omissions
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Altering code prohibited
   
10.15   Offenses punishable under separate provisions
   
10.16   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Warren Code of Ordinances for which designation "codified ordinances" or "code"
may be substituted.  Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified.  Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the "traffic code."  Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as "§
10.01."  Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code of ordinances as those governing the interpretation
of the Indiana Code.
   (B)   Footnotes, cross-references, and other comments are by way of
explanation only and should not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
   (C)   All provisions of this code are limited in application to the
territorial boundaries of the municipal corporation unless otherwise
specifically provided.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I not incompatible with future legislation shall
apply to ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code
unless otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND.  May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   CORPORATE LIMITS or TOWN LIMITS.  Legal boundaries of the town, except as
otherwise provided by law.
   COUNCIL.  The Town Council of Warren, Indiana.
   COUNTY.  Huntington County, Indiana.
   IC.  Refers to the Indiana Code.
   MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH.  A calendar month.
   MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICI-PALITY.  The municipality of Warren,
Indiana.
   OATH.  Includes an affirmation.
   OWNER.  When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner, or
tenant in common of the whole or part of such property.
   PERSON.  Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver.  Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Includes all property except real property.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING.  Next before and next after, respectively.
   PREMISES.  As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PRESIDENT.  The President of the Town Council of Warren, Indiana.
   PROPERTY.  Includes real, personal, and mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY.  Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place open to the
general public.
   REAL PROPERTY.  Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL.  Includes certified mail.
   SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION.  The name of a person written or printed by that
person or a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE.  The State of Indiana.
   SUBCHAPTER.  A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading.  Not all chapters have subchapters.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT.  As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   TOWN.  The town of Warren, Indiana.
   WRITING.  Includes any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether
by printing or otherwise.
   YEAR.  A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.05  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and usual
sense.  However, technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
   (B)   As used in the code, unless the context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular.
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders.
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future.
   (C)   Computation of time.  In computing any period of time prescribed or
allowed this code, an order of a court, or by any applicable statute, the day
of the act, event, or default from which the designated period of time begins
to run shall not be included. The last day of the period so computed is to be
included unless it is:
      (1)   A Saturday;
      (2)   A Sunday;
      (3)   A legal holiday as defined by state statute; or
      (4)   A day the office in which the act is to be done is closed during
regular business hours.
      (5)   In any event, the period runs until the end of the next day that is
not a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the office is
closed.  When the period of time allowed is less than seven days, intermediate
Saturdays, Sundays, legal holidays, and days on which the office is closed
shall be excluded from the computations.  (Trial Rule 6(A))
   (D)   Act by assistants.  When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (E)   General term.  A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
   (F)   Joint authority.  Words importing joint authority to three or more
persons shall be construed as authority to a majority of such persons, unless
otherwise declared in the law giving such authority.
   (G)   Exceptions.  The rules of construction shall not apply to any law
which contains any express provision excluding such construction, or when the
subject matter or context of such law may be repugnant thereto.
§ 10.06  REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed.
   (B)   When a provision of the code is repealed or amended, the repeal or
amendment does not affect pending actions, prosecutions or proceedings, civil
or criminal.  When the repeal or amendment relates to the remedy, it does not
affect pending actions, prosecutions, or proceedings unless so expressed, nor
does any repeal or amendment affect causes of the action, prosecution, or
proceeding existing at the time of the amendment or repeal, unless otherwise
expressly provided in the amending or repealing law.
   (C)   When a provision of the code is repealed, the repeal does not:
      (1)   Affect any rights or liabilities which exist, have accrued, or have
been incurred by virtue of the repealed provision;
      (2)   Affect an action or proceeding for the enforcement of any rights or
liabilities existing or arising thereunder;
      (3)   Relieve any person from punishment for an act committed in
violation of the repealed provision; or
      (4)   Affect an indictment or prosecution for a violation of the repealed
provision.
   (D)   For the purposes of this section, the repealed provision shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding the repeal, provided this
does not affect the limitation of actions, prosecutions, or proceedings imposed
by any state statute.
§ 10.07  CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
such reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as
subsequently amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject
matter is changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
   (B)   Whenever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (C)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by the code.
§ 10.08  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail.  If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the subject matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.10  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties,
or functions contemplated in that provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.11  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected, and
such word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.  No
alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the
nature or extent of such error.
§ 10.12  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.  All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.14  ALTERING CODE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend, by
additions or deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or
delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with this code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.15  OFFENSES PUNISHABLE UNDER SEPARATE PROVISIONS.
   In all cases where the same offenses may be made punishable or may be
created by different clauses or sections of the ordinances of the city, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense.
§ 10.16  HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section.  Example:  (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   If an IC cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute.  Example:  (IC 36-
4-5-3) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17- 80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85).  If an IC cite
is set forth as a "statutory reference" following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further information.
Example:
      § 31.10  PRESIDENT OF THE TOWN COUNCIL.
         The executive authority of the city shall be vested in an exercised by
the President of the Town Council.
      (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
      Statutory reference:
         Designation of town executive, see  IC 36-5-2-2
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offender shall be fined
not more than $2500 for each offense or violation.  A separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 11:  TOWN SEAL
Section
   
11.01   Town seal
§ 11.01  TOWN SEAL.
   The seal to be used by the town is as follows:  Around the margin thereof
shall be impressed the words, "Town of Warren, Indiana," and in the center
thereof the words, "Incorporated Nov. 14th, 1879, TRUSTEES SEAL," which seal,
represented as aforesaid, is hereunto annexed and shall be and is hereby
established and declared to be the seal of the Town of Warren, Indiana.
('83 Code, § 2-2)
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
     Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   FINANCES
      
34.   EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
      
35.   MUNICIPAL VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
36.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
37.   NEPOTISM IN EMPLOYMENT AND CONTRACTING
CHAPTER 30:  TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Election of Council
   
30.02   Salaries
   
30.03   Council members to serve as Superintendents
   
30.04   Committee expenses
   
30.05   Claims to be presented to Town Council
Rules of Procedure
   
30.15   Council rules of procedure
Cross-reference:
   Duties of Town Council as to cable television regulation, see §
112.05
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01  ELECTION OF COUNCIL.
   (A)   At large Council elections. The Town Council shall have four Council
member positions filled by at large election.
   (B)   Special three year terms. For the Town Council election held in 1999,
two Council members shall be elected for a term of three calendar years each,
commencing on January 1, 2000.
   (C)   Four year terms. For the Town Council election held in 1999, two
Council members shall be elected for a term of four calendar years each,
commencing on January 1, 2000.
   (D)   Three and four year terms. The two Town Council members receiving the
fewest votes of the four Council members elected in 1999 shall be the Council
members to serve the foregoing three year terms. The two Town Council members
receiving the greatest number of votes shall be the Council members to serve
the foregoing four year terms.
   (D)   Successor Council members. The successors of all Town Council members
elected in 1999 shall be elected in the November election day election in the
year of expiration of their respective terms, for successor terms of four
years, and likewise every four years thereafter.
(Ord. 1990-3, passed 7-9-90; Am. Ord. 1998-11, passed 9-14-98)
§ 30.02  SALARIES.
   The members of the Town Council shall receive remuneration for their
services according to the schedule adopted by ordinance and as amended from
time to time.
('83 Code, § 2-1 I.)
§ 30.03  COUNCIL MEMBERS TO SERVE AS SUPERINTENDENTS.
   At the organization meeting of the Town Council, one member of Council shall
be duly appointed by Council as Superintendent of the Electric Utility; one
member shall be duly appointed by Council as Superintendent of the Water
Utility; one member of Council shall be duly appointed as Superintendent of the
Streets and Alleys Department; and one member of Council shall be duly
appointed as Superintendent of the Sewer and Drainage Department.
('83 Code, § 2-1 I.)
§ 30.04  COMMITTEE EXPENSES.
   All committees appointed by the Town Council for the management of any part
of the business of the town may present an itemized statement of the time,
services and expenses bestowed on or expended in the discharge of their duties,
and Council shall make such allowance for the committee as Council may deem
reasonable in the manner provided by IC 36-5-4- 2.
('83 Code, § 2-1 I.)
§ 30.05  CLAIMS TO BE PRESENTED TO TOWN COUNCIL.
   All claims for fees and salaries shall be presented to the Town Council on a
claim form to be audited and allowed as other claims against the town.
('83 Code, § 2-1 I.)
RULES OF PROCEDURES
§ 30.15  COUNCIL RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The following rules are hereby adopted governing the deliberations of the
Town Council:
   (A)   The presiding officer shall decide all questions of order, subject to
an appeal to Council by any member thereof, whose appeal must be seconded.
   (B)   The presiding officer shall decide whether any question is carried;
but if he is in doubt, or a division is called for, Council shall decide, those
in the affirmative first rising and being counted, and then those in the
negative rising and being counted.
   (C)   All questions relating to priority of business shall be decided
without a debate.
   (D)   When any member wants to speak, he shall respectfully address himself
to the presiding officer, confine what is said to the question and debate, and
avoid personalities.
   (E)   No member shall impeach the motive of any member's vote or argument.
   (F)   If any member in any way transgresses the rules of Council, any other
member, or the presiding officer, may call him to order, in which case the
alleged offender shall immediately be seated unless permitted to explain.
   (G)   When two or more members rise at once, the presiding officer shall
decide which shall speak first.
   (H)   When the presiding officer is putting a question or addressing
Council, Council or when any member is speaking, no member shall engage in any
private discourse, or walk across or leave the room unnecessarily.
   (I)   When any motion is made and seconded, it shall be stated by the
presiding officer; or, being in writing, it shall be handed to the Clerk-
Treasurer, and he shall read it aloud before debate.
   (J)   Every motion shall be reduced to writing if any member or the
presiding officer requires it, and after being stated or read shall be
considered, but may be withdrawn at any time before decision or amendment.
   (K)   When any question has once been decided in the affirmative or
negative, any member may move a reconsideration thereof at the same or the next
subsequent meeting.
   (L)   When any matter is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be voted upon
during that or the next succeeding meeting.
   (M)   Upon unanimous consent of the Council members present, an ordinance
may be adopted on the same day or at the same meeting at which the ordinance is
introduced, only if two-thirds of all elected members vote to adopt that
ordinance.
   (N)   The vote on ordinances and resolutions must be decided by the call of
the roll, but any member may call the ayes and nays upon any question or
motion.
   (O)   Each ordinance introduced shall be numbered as introduced, ordinances
shall be taken up in the order of their numbers unless Council shall, by vote
upon motion, determine otherwise.
   (P)   It shall be the duty of the presiding officer to prohibit loud talking
in the Council Chambers during the session of the Town Council.
   (Q)   It shall be the duty of the Town Marshal to attend all meetings of the
Town Council by himself or by deputy, except as otherwise authorized by
Council.
   (R)   Whenever any matter is referred to any standing or special committee
for investigation, the motion or resolution containing such reference shall
state the date, hour and place of the meeting for that purpose.
   (S)   A majority of the Council present shall constitute a quorum to
transact business, but if only two members are present at a regular meeting,
they may adjourn to meet no later than one week hence.
   (T)   The general rules of parliamentary law, so far as applicable, are to
be considered the rules of Council, unless they conflict with some of the rules
herein prescribed, in which event the rules herein set out shall prevail.
   (U)   At any meeting of the Town Council if the President is absent a member
shall be elected to preside in his absence only.  If the Clerk is absent, a
Clerk pro tempore shall be appointed.
   (V)   The regular meetings of the Town Council shall be held in the Warren
Fire Station Meeting Room at 6:30 p.m. on the second and fourth Mondays of each
month unless otherwise noticed under applicable law.  The President or Clerk-
Treasurer may call a special meeting when he deems it advisable by serving
personal notice on all members or by mailing to, or leaving written notice with
a person of suitable age and discretion at, the residence of all members at
least 48 hours before the special meeting.  All such notices shall state the
time, place, and purpose of the meeting.  In an emergency requiring less
notice, only such good faith lesser notice as is practical in the circumstances
is required. 
('83 Code, § 2-1 I. A.)  (Ord. 1984-1, passed 2-28-84; Am. Ord. 85-10, passed
12-17-85; Am. Ord. 1987-8, passed 12-7-87; Am. Ord. 1992-01, passed 1-13-92;
Am. Ord. 1995-20, passed 10-25-95; Am. Ord. 1997-3, passed  - - 97)
CHAPTER 31:  TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
Elected Officials
   
31.01   Election procedure
   
31.02   Term of office
   
31.03   Officers to have listed telephone numbers
   
31.04   Elected officers to attend Council meetings
   
31.05   Clerk-Treasurer
Nonelected Officials
   
31.15   Town Attorney
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.01  ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Nomination of candidates.
      (1)   Pursuant to IC 3-8-5-2(a) and (c), the nomination of candidates for
town offices shall be:
         (a)   By primary election;
         (b)   By petition filed under IC 3-8-6; or
         (c)   By declaration of candidacy, if a primary election is not
required under IC 3-8-5-10 for the political party of which the candidate is a
member.
      (2)   The Clerk- Treasurer shall file a copy of this subsection with the
Huntington County Circuit Court Clerk upon its adoption.
   (B)   The town's elective offices shall be four Council member positions and
a Clerk- Treasurer, all which shall be filled by at large election.
   (C)   The election of administrative officials of the town shall be held
according to, and those officials elected shall be governed by, the laws of the
state currently in force governing town elections and town officials.
('83 Code, § 2-1, 2-3) (Ord. 1990-3, passed 7-9-90; Am. Ord. 2001-10, passed 9-
10-01)
§ 31.02  TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The term of each Council member and of the Clerk- Treasurer shall be
four years.  The terms of all town officers elected at any regular election
shall begin at noon on the first day of January next following their election. 
The town officers shall meet at 12:00 noon on the first day of January
following their election in  the Council Chambers and  file their 
certificates  of election  and take and subscribe their oath of office.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall give bond as provided by law and the
retiring Town Council, having completed their term, shall adjourn, and the new
Council shall at once organize by electing one of their members President of
Council.
('83 Code, § 2-1)
§ 31.03  OFFICERS TO HAVE LISTED TELEPHONE NUMBER.
   Each Council member and the Clerk-Treasurer must have a telephone at their
place of residence, and the number of that telephone must be listed in the
telephone directory.
('83 Code, § 2-1)
§ 31.04  ELECTED OFFICERS TO ATTEND COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   It shall be the duty of every elective town officer to attend each and every
meeting of the Town Council and perform the duties of his office.
('83 Code, § 2-1)
§ 31.05  CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   Establishment of office of Clerk-Treasurer.
      (1)   Both the office of Clerk and Treasurer shall be held and
administered by one and the same person.
      (2)   Said officer shall be known and designated as the Clerk-Treasurer
of the Town of Warren, Indiana.
      (3)   The salary of the Clerk-Treasurer shall be as determined from time
to time by the Town Council, and as updated and amended from time to time.
   (B)   Duties of the Clerk- Treasurer.
      (1)   The  Clerk- Treasurer shall keep the books and records of the
town's electric, water and sewage utilities; collect the electric, water and
sewage bills for the town; collect all deposits for meters before the lights or
water are turned on, and make all funds so collected chargeable against the
Clerk-Treasurer's office.  The Clerk-Treasurer shall perform all other duties
pertaining to the operation of the electric, water and sewage utilities as the
Town Council may from time to time by resolution require.
      (2)   He shall keep a complete journal of all proceedings of the Town
Council entered at length, and the President shall sign and the Clerk-Treasurer
attest the record of each meeting of the Council, whenever the same shall have
been read and approved.
      (3)   He shall file and preserve all reports of committees and petitions,
and he shall file and record all resolutions, orders, ordinances, bylaws or
other enactments passed by the Town Council.
      (4)   He shall see that all bills are properly prepared and approved by
Council.  When the claim is allowed, he shall then issue a check.  He must
number each bill in consecutive order and record the same.
      (5)   He shall have the custody of the town seal and all the records,
books, and papers of the Town Council belonging to the town.  He shall properly
index journal records and keep all other papers in classified order.  Whenever
an ordinance or order has been modified or repealed, he shall note the fact on
the margin of the record, giving date and page for reference.
      (6)   He shall issue all notices to property owners for street, sidewalk
and sewer improvements and cause the same to be published or served by the Town
Marshal, as provided by law, or as ordered by the Town Council.
      (7)   He shall issue licenses authorized by the town ordinances, fixing
the amount to be paid, to whom issued, and under what ordinance.  He shall keep
a record of the same, and when so issued shall charge the Clerk-Treasurer's
office with the amount before he delivers said license.
      (8)   He shall receive and receipt all moneys belonging to the town, as
well as all special funds belonging to contractors for street, sidewalk, and
sewer improvements or to bondholders for payment of bonds or coupons, and he
shall charge the Clerk-Treasurer's office with all moneys so received.  He
shall pay out no money except on a claim properly drawn on the funds and
presented to and allowed by the Town Council.
      (9)   He or she shall receive and receipt semiannual tax moneys and
charge the amount to different funds as designated by the County Auditor.
      (10)   The Clerk- Treasurer is authorized to deposit any and/or all funds
in any bank so designated as a state depository by the state.
      (11)   It shall be the Clerk-Treasurer's further duty, on demand of the
Town Council or on demand of the State Board of Accounts, to submit a brief
report of the financial condition of the town, showing the amounts in the
different funds and the outstanding warrants or other obligations against each
fund.  At the close of the term of office he shall make out a full exhibition
of his debits and credits as such Clerk-Treasurer, and turn over to the
successor in office all the moneys or evidence of deposits, books, and other
property of the town, taking receipt for the same, subject to verification
thereof by the State Board of Accounts.
      (12)   The Clerk- Treasurer shall be an ex officio member of the Town
Council to the extent only that in case of a tie vote, he shall cast the
deciding vote.
      (13)   The Clerk- Treasurer shall perform all other duties as is provided
by law for the offices of Clerk and Treasurer of the town.
('83 Code, § 2-1 II.)
   (C)   The following general rules shall be established for the operation of
the Clerk- Treasurer's Office:
      (1)   The office may be closed for attendance by the Clerk and Deputy-
Clerk at district, state and national meetings and workshops and at any other
appropriate time as requested by the Clerk-Treasurer and approved by the Town
Council.
      (2)   The office hours shall be as follows: Monday through Friday 8:00
a.m. until 5:00 p.m.
      (3)   The office shall be closed on any day designated a holiday by §
34.03 of this title.  (Ord. 1992-18, passed 12-14-92; Am. Ord. 1995-23, passed
12-11- 95; Am. Ord. 1995-24, passed 12- 19-95; Am. Ord. 1997-20, passed 1-12-
98)
   (D)   Certain services now available through the Clerk- Treasurer's office
will be available to the general public at the following rates:
 
Copies                            $.25 per page
Incoming fax                      $1.00 for 1 - 3 pages
                                  $.25 for each additional page
                                  $2.00 for 1 - 2 pages (8½ x 11)
Outgoing fax                      $.50 for each additional page
                                  $2.75 for 1 - 2 pages (additional sizes)
                                  $.75 for each additional page
Notary                            $2.00 per document
Lamination                         
  Business card or      badge
  8½ x 11                       $.50
  8½ x 14                       $1.00
                                  $1.25
 
(Res. 11-1993, passed 9-27-93; Am. Ord. 2005-14, passed 3-14-05)
Cross-reference:
   Clerk-Treasurer designated as Cable TV Administrator, see §
112.04
NONELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.15  TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Employment of Town Attorney.  The Town Council may employ an attorney
to act as Town Attorney, whose obligations to the town shall be fixed by
contract with the Town Council.  ('83 Code, § 2-4)
   (B)   Enforcement of ordinances.  It shall be the duty of the Attorney
employed by the town to prosecute any violations of the town ordinances.  ('83
Code, § 2-5)
CHAPTER 32:  DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Public Park Board
   
32.01   Appointment of Public Park Board
   
32.02   Members to receive no compensation for services
Fire Department
   
32.15   Establishment of Fire Department; composition; salaries
   
32.16   Duties of Fire Chief
   
32.17   Duties of Secretary-Treasurer
   
32.18   Fire-fighting equipment
   
32.19   Department to adopt bylaws
   
32.20   Rules of firetruck operation
   
32.21   Interference with firefighters in the performance of their duties
   
32.22   Practice runs
   
32.23   Remuneration
Law Enforcement
   
32.35   Composition of Police Department
   
32.36   Town Marshal
   
32.37   Deputy Town Marshal
   
32.38   Special police officers
   
32.39   Town Marshal Reserve Department
   
32.40   Assessment and application of certain fees; Law Enforcement Fund
Department of Economic Development
   
32.45   Department of Economic Development
Economic Development Commission
   
32.55   Economic Development Commission
Plan Commission
   
32.65   County Plan Commission designated as Town Plan Commission
Department of Redevelopment
   
32.75   Department of Redevelopment
 
   
32.99   Penalty
PUBLIC PARK BOARD
§ 32.01  APPOINTMENT OF PUBLIC PARK BOARD.
   (A)   The Town Council shall, at any time it deems expedient, appoint a
Board for the control and management of any public parks within the corporate
limits of the town.
   (B)   The Board shall consist of four members to be appointed by the
President of the Town Council.  The members shall be appointed on the basis of
their interest in and knowledge of parks and recreation, but no more than two
members may be affiliated with the same political party.  Terms shall be for
four years, with initial appointments staggered as set forth in IC 36-10-3-5
(a).  As a term expires, each new appointment shall be for four years.  All
terms shall expire on the first Monday in January, but a member shall continue
in office until his successor is appointed.  If a vacancy occurs, the Council
President shall appoint a person to serve for the remainder of the unexpired
term.  (IC 36-10-3-3 - 36-10-3-6)
   (C)   Such Board of Public Park Trustees shall possess all the powers and
perform all the duties that may now or hereafter be conferred by law upon such
a board.
('83 Code, § 2-6)
Cross-reference:
   Parks and recreation, see
Ch. 92
§ 32.02  MEMBERS TO RECEIVE NO COMPENSATION FOR SERVICES.
   The Public Park Trustees shall serve without compensation.
('83 Code, § 2-6)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.15  ESTABLISHMENT OF FIRE DEPARTMENT; COMPOSITION.
   Establishment of Fire Department; composition.
   (A)   The Town Fire Department shall consist of a Fire Chief, an Assistant
Fire Chief, a Secretary-Treasurer, and such additional persons as the Town
Council shall from time to time determine to be necessary to secure the
efficient functioning of said Department.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall be appointed by the Town Council, the Fire
Department having the privilege of recommending a Fire Chief to the Town
Council for approval and appointment.
   (C)   The membership of the Fire Department shall elect one of its members
to act as Secretary-Treasurer.  All other members are to be selected by the
membership of said Department, in accordance with the rules, regulations, and
bylaws thereof.  However, such selection shall at all times be subject to
approval of Council.
   (D)   The members of said Department shall also have power, subject to
review by Council, to suspend or expel any member thereof for the good of the
Department, according to the provisions of said rules, regulations, and bylaws,
provided the Town Council shall also have power to remove any member of said
Department or to suspend any such member, for such cause and after such person
has been given an opportunity to be heard in defense, and provided further that
if for any reason the town should at any time be without a Fire Department, the
Town Council shall have power to appoint members of said Fire Department, who
shall thereafter proceed to organize as herein provided.
('83 Code, § 3-1)  (Am. Ord. 2006-14, passed 10-9-06)
§ 32.16  DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Fire Chief or person then acting as such, while acting in the line
of duty, shall protect and safeguard the fire- fighting equipment and other
property of the town, and shall have the power to issue directions  to others
present who  are  not  firefighters, which orders such others shall be required
to obey.  No person shall willfully refuse to obey such order or hinder the
performance of the duties of any member of the Fire Department.  The Fire
Chief, either in person or by any other person deputized by him to do so, shall
have power to arrest any person who violates any of the provisions of this
subchapter or who, at the time of any fire or alarm of fire, shall be guilty of
any breach of peace, or of injuring any person or property, or committing any
act of larceny.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall, at least once every year, make and deliver to
the Town Council an inventory of all supplies and machinery on hand and report
the condition thereof, together with a report of the activities of the Fire
Department and any recommendations he considers appropriate to make in the
interest of the efficiency of the Fire Department.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall in all things comply with the rules and
regulations as now or hereafter prescribed by the State Fire Marshal, or
authorized deputies, for the protection of property within the town.
   (D)   The Fire Chief shall use all reasonable means to abate fire hazards,
and in the event of fire shall direct the Fire Department in its efforts to
extinguish the fire.  All other members of said Department, including the
driver of the firetruck, shall be subject to the orders of the Fire Chief.  In
the absence of the Fire Chief, the Assistant Fire Chief, First Captain, Second
Captain, in that order, shall assume and have the power herein reposed in the
Fire Chief.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, or designee, to attend the
regular meetings of the Town Council whenever requested by any member of the
Town Council, and to advise the Council in the interests of the Fire Department
and the performance of its functions, and to present requisitions for necessary
supplies and repairs for the Department, and for the firetruck, as required of
the heads of other departments.
('83 Code, § 3-1 I.)  (Am. Ord. 2006-14, passed 10-9-06)
§ 32.17  DUTIES OF SECRETARY- TREASURER.
   It shall be the duty of the Secretary-Treasurer to keep a permanent record
of the membership of the Fire  Department, the fire  runs made, the  time each
of the members were on duty at each fire, and all other matters affecting the
conduct of the Fire Department and the compensation of firefighter.  The record
shall be open to public inspection at all times.  The Secretary-Treasurer shall
make a financial report to the Town Clerk-Treasurer as soon after the first of
December as possible. Claims of the Fire Department for services in attending
fires shall be prepared from the record kept by the Secretary-Treasurer, and
shall be presented to the Clerk-Treasurer in the manner proscribed by IC 36-5-
4-6 for consideration of allowance by the Town Council.
('83 Code, § 3-1 II.)
§ 32.18  FIRE-FIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The Town's firetrucks shall be kept in good condition, and any repairs
that need to be made should be reported to the Fire Chief, who shall take the
matter before the Town Council.  The firetrucks and equipment shall be kept
within the immediate vicinity of the town.  All equipment, such as hats, coats,
and the like must be left in the fire station, excepting for that equipment of
the Fire Chief.  The penalty for taking the equipment from the station, or for
taking the equipment home, is that the firefighter who does so shall be
disciplined, which discipline may include being dismissed from the Fire
Department.
   (B)   No person having charge of any fire-fighting equipment belonging to
the town shall cause or permit the same to be used for private purposes, except
as provided in §§
32.19 through
32.22.
   (C)   No person shall drive over or cause any vehicle to pass over any hose
of the Town Fire Department, when laid down to be used at any fire, alarm of
fire, or practice, without first having obtained the consent of the Fire Chief
or acting Fire Chief.
   (D)   The Fire Department shall be provided by the town with the necessary
clothing, supplies, and fire-fighting apparatus.  The Fire Chief shall
appropriately present the needs of that Department to the attention of Council.
('83 Code, § 3-1 III.)  (Am. Ord. 2006-14, passed 10-9-06)  Penalty, see §
32.99
Cross-reference:
   For Municipal Violations Bureau and prepayment of fines, see §
35.01
§ 32.19  DEPARTMENT TO ADOPT BYLAWS.
   (A)   The  Fire  Department  shall  adopt  rules, regulations, and bylaws
governing the manner of giving alarms of fire, getting to fires, and in
general, the conduct of all members of the Department upon alarm of fire and
until the run has been completed, all of which shall be subject to these
provisions and to the approval of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Fire Department may also adopt a constitution and bylaws for its
government, not inconsistent with the laws of the state or the ordinances of
the town, the same to be effective only when approved by the Town Council.
('83 Code, § 3-1 IV. A.)
§ 32.20  RULES OF FIRETRUCK OPERATION.
   (A)   The driver of any firetruck shall refrain from the use of intoxicants.
   (B)   When making a run to a fire, a firetruck driver shall continually
sound or cause to be sounded a bell, siren, or other device to warn the public
and all vehicle drivers at the time using the streets over which said truck is
driven or likely to be driven because of its near approach.  Thereupon, other
vehicle drivers shall immediately drive their vehicles as close as possible to
the right side of the street and shall come to a complete stop, and shall not
follow the firetruck within 500 feet to said fire, provided the provisions of
this section shall not apply to any member of the Fire Department in going to
or from the fire, but such vehicles at all times shall give the right-of-way to
the firetruck.
   (C)   No person, other than members of the Fire Department, shall get upon
or ride upon a firetruck when going to or from fires unless requested to do so
by the Fire Chief or acting Chief.
('83 Code, § 3-1 IV. B.)  (Am. Ord. 2006-14, passed 10-9-06) Penalty, see §
32.99
Cross-reference:
   For Municipal Violations Bureau and prepayment of fines, see §
35.01
§ 32.21  INTERFERENCE WITH FIREFIGHTERS IN THE PERFORMANCE OF THEIR DUTIES.
   No person, other than firefighters or persons requested to do so by the Fire
Chief or Assistant Fire Chief,  shall come nearer than 100 feet to firefighters
while they are engaged in fighting fires.
('83 Code, § 3-1 IV. C.)  (Am. Ord. 2006-14, passed 10-9-06) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.22  PRACTICE RUNS.
   The Fire Department shall make at least four practice runs per year, and
members shall be paid for all practice runs.
('83 Code, § 3-1 IV. D.)
§ 32.23  REMUNERATION.
   The members of the Fire Department shall be remunerated as specified by
ordinance and as amended from time to time by the Town Council. Each member of
the Fire Department must be present at the fire to be entitled to receive any
pay. 
('83 Code, § 3- 1 IV. E.)
LAW ENFORCEMENT
§ 32.35  COMPOSITION OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The regular police force of the town shall consist of a Town Marshal, who
shall be the head of the Department, and a Deputy Town Marshal.  Special police
officers may be appointed by the Town Council.
('83 Code, § 3-2)
§ 32.36  TOWN MARSHAL.
   (A)   The Town Marshal shall be appointed by the Town Council, to serve at
the pleasure of the Council.  Before taking office, the Town Marshal shall take
and subscribe an oath of affirmation for the faithful performance of the duties
of that office.
   (B)   The Town Marshal shall give a bond payable to the state with surety to
the approval of the Town Council, in such an amount as Council shall direct;
however, the bond shall be for a sum not less than double the amount of the
estimated public funds that may come into the Marshal's hands at any time
during the Marshal's term.
   (C)   It shall be included in the duties of the Town Marshal to serve all
notices or documents directed to him by the Town Clerk-Treasurer or the Town
Council and the Marshal shall perform such other responsibilities as the Town
Council may direct.  He shall wear a badge plainly designating the office.  He
shall patrol the streets of the town and shall preserve order.  He shall act as
traffic-control officer and shall direct traffic when appropriate.
   (D)   In the event of fire the Town Marshal shall remain close by to guard
against thieves and incendiaries during the time of the fire.
   (E)   The Town Marshal shall, upon application from persons about to build
or repair a real estate improvement, issue a permit for the temporary
obstruction of not more than one- half of the street, alley, or sidewalk for a
definite time, not exceeding 90 days, unless a special permit is given by the
Town Council.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the Town Marshal to attend meetings of the
Town Council unless excused, and to obey the directions of the President in
preserving order.  While in attendance he shall have the power of a Sergeant-
at-Arms.
   (G)   Certain services now available through the Town Marshal's Office will
be provided to the general public at the following rates:
      Fingerprinting         $2.00 per set
('83 Code, § 3-2 I.)  (Am. Ord. 1999-7, passed 10-11-99)
§ 32.37  DEPUTY TOWN MARSHAL.
   The Deputy Marshal shall perform all of the functions of the Town Marshal
when on duty.  The Deputy Town Marshal shall be responsible to the Town
Marshal.
('83 Code, § 3-2 II.)
§ 32.38  SPECIAL POLICE OFFICERS.
   When, in the judgment of the Town Council and the Town Marshal, the safety
of persons or property in the town requires additional police protection, the
President of the Town Council  may appoint special  police officers, in such
numbers, for such time, and at such compensation as may be prescribed by the
Town Council by appropriate action.  Said appointed police officers shall
perform the usual duties of police officers, and the Town Marshal shall execute
the orders of the Town Council and see that the ordinances of the town are
enforced.
('83 Code, § 3-2 III.)
§ 32.39  TOWN MARSHAL RESERVE DEPARTMENT.
   The Town Marshal Reserve Department is established as follows:
   (A)   Appointment as a Reserve Marshal shall be made by the Town Council
pursuant to such reasonable and appropriate standards as the Town Council may
from time to time hereafter establish and implement.
   (B)   The number of Reserve Marshals to be appointed by the Town Council
shall be two.
   (C)   Reserve Marshals so appointed shall not be deemed members of the
regular Town Marshal's Department, but are to complement the Department as
governed by the Rules and Regulations of the Reserve Marshal's Department as
adopted, August 24, 1998, and as hereafter amended, and by such other rules and
regulations as the Town Council shall from time to time establish.
   (D)   Reserve Marshals shall be entitled to the following benefits:
      (1)   Receive compensation loss from other regular employment because of
Court appearances on behalf of the Town; and
      (2)   Receive liability insurance coverage as extended to Town Marshal
and Deputy Town Marshal.
(Ord. 1998-12, passed 8-24-98)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to provide system of Reserve Town Marshals, see IC 36-8-3-20
§ 32.40  ASSESSMENT AND APPLICATION OF CERTAIN FEES; LAW ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   (A)   The Town Marshal, the Assistant Marshal, or the Deputy Marshal shall
hereafter charge, collect, and remit to the Town Clerk-Treasurer the following
fees, which shall be processed by the Clerk-Treasurer as stated.
      (1)   For administration of accident report fee, see §
70.25.
      (2)   For administration of vehicle inspection fee, see §
70.15.
      (3)   Handgun licenses/transfers.
         (a)   A fee of $10 for each handgun license application shall be
deposited in the Continuing Education Fund.  If the application is not
accepted, a refund of $5 shall be made without appropriation pursuant to IC 35-
47-2-3.
         (b)   The Town Continuing Education Fund, which is hereby established,
is to be expended at the Town Marshal's discretion for training officers in law
enforcement duties, and shall be paid without appropriation.
   (B)   All fees, funds, and portions thereof received from the County Auditor
as the town's portion of court fees to which the town is entitled by applicable
law, whether from the County Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund or not,
shall be deposited in the town's Local Law Enforcement Fund, which is hereby
established, for expenditure therefrom pursuant to applicable law.
(Ord. 1988-9, passed 8-8-88)
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
§ 32.45  DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
   A Department of Economic Development is hereby established for the town,
with powers, duties and responsibilities as provided by the law as now in
effect and as hereinafter in effect from time to time.
(Ord. 84-6, passed 10-15-84)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 32.55  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   The members of the Economic Development Commission shall be appointed
by the Town President as follows:  one of the members shall be selected by the
Town President, one shall be nominated by the fiscal body of the county in
which the town is located, and one shall be nominated by the Town Council.
   (B)   The Economic Development Commissioners shall take office upon their
appointment, and the terms run from February 1 after their original
appointment, for a period of:
      (1)   Three years, if selected by the Town President;
      (2)   Two years, if nominated by the Town Council; and
      (3)   One year, if nominated by the County Council.
(IC 36-7-12-6)
PLAN COMMISSION
§ 32.65  COUNTY PLAN COMMISSION DESIGNATED AS TOWN PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   The County Plan Commission is hereby designated as the Town Plan
Commission.
   (B)   When acting for the town, the County Plan Commission shall have all
powers and duties that a municipal plan commission has under advisory planning
law.
   (C)   As a result of designating the Huntington County Plan Commission to
act as the town Plan Commission, residents of the town are eligible to be
appointed citizen members of the County Plan Commission under IC 36-7-4-410(b).
   (D)   Upon acceptance of this designation and pursuant to IC 36-7-4-410(a),
the County Plan Commission and the Huntington Countywide Department of
Community Development acting for the County Plan Commission shall obtain the
full amount of fees and charges provided for in the applicable zoning ordinance
and subdivision control ordinance as payment for expenses properly chargeable
for planning services contemplated herein.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-24-97)
DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT
§ 32.75  DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   A Department of Redevelopment controlled by a Board of five members to
be known as the Redevelopment Commission is hereby established in accordance
with IC 36-7-14-1 et seq.
   (B)   The jurisdiction and territory of the Redevelopment Commission shall
be within the corporate boundaries of the town, and all areas assigned to it in
accordance with IC 36-7-25-4 and applicable law.
(Res. 12-1994, passed 11-4-94)
§ 32.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
32.18,
32.20, and
32.21 shall, on conviction, be fined in any sum not exceeding $2500 for each
such violation.  A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day that
a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 33:  FINANCES
Section
Funds
   
33.01   Fire Donation Fund
   
33.02   Rate Stabilization Fund
   
33.03   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
33.04   Cash Reserve Fund
   
33.05   Rainy Day Fund
   
33.06   LOIT Special Distribution Fund
   
33.07   Promotional Fund
   
33.08   Cumulative Building and Equipment Fund
I-69
   
33.20   I-69 Phase II Project
   
33.21   I-69 Bond Replacement Allocation Fund
Purchasing
   
33.30   Authorization to purchase
   
33.31   Purchasing rules
   
33.32   Purchasing policies
   
33.33   Reverse auction procedures
Policies
   
33.50   Reimbursement for expenses incurred on behalf of the town
   
33.51   Inventory of fixed assets
   
33.52   Prepayment of claims
   
33.53   Placement of investments outside town depository
   
33.54   Credit card policy
   
33.55   Acceptance of credit cards as payment
   
33.56   Identity theft prevention program
   
33.57   Materiality policy and procedure
   
33.58   Internal control standards
FUNDS
§ 33.01  FIRE DONATION FUND.
   The Fire Department Donation Fund is established, to be administered as any
fund of the town.
(Ord. 2005-20, passed 7-25-05)
§ 33.02  RATE STABILIZATION FUND.
   (A)   A Rate Stabilization Fund is hereby re-established within the Warren
Municipal Electric Utility.
   (B)    Regular monthly transfers shall be made from or to the Utility’s Cash
Operating Fund to or from its Rate Stabilization Fund, with the direction and
amount of such transfers to be determined and effective annually as of the
implementation of the Utility’s Annual Tracker Factor in April of each year.
   (C)   Such transfers shall commence in April of 2004 with regular monthly
transfers from that Cash Operation Fund to the Rate Stabilization Fund, in the
amount disclosed within the annual tracker report.
(Ord. 2001-6, passed 4-9-01; Am. Ord. 2004-3, passed 3-22-04)
§ 33.03  CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Town Cumulative Capital Development Fund
(hereafter known as the Fund).
   (B)   An ad valorem property tax levy will be imposed at $.50 per $100 of
assessed valuation, and the revenues from the Fund will be retained in the Fund
for purposes as set forth in IC 36-9-15.5-2.
   (C)   It is the plan of the town that the funds accumulated in the Fund will
be appropriated according to state law:
   IC 8-16-3      Cumulative Bridge Fund
   IC 36-8-14       Cumulative Firefighting Building, Equipment, Police Radio
Fund
   IC 36-9-16-2       Cumulative Building Fund
   IC 36-9-16-3       Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
   IC 36-9-16.5       Cumulative Street Fund
   IC 36-9-17      General Improvement Fund
   IC 36-9-26       Cumulative Building Fund - Sewers
   IC 36-9-27-100   Cumulative Drainage Fund
   IC 36-10-3-21       Cumulative Building Fund - Parks
   IC 36-10-4-36       Cumulative Sinking and Building Fund - Parks
   (E)   Notwithstanding the specificity of division (D), the Fund may be spent
for purposes other than those stated in division (D), if the purpose is to
protect the public health, welfare, or safety in an emergency situation which
demands immediate action. Money may be spent under the authority of this
section only after the Town Council President issues a declaration that the
public health, welfare, and safety is in immediate danger and requires the
expenditure of money in the Fund.
(Ord. 84-2, passed 7-2-84; Am. Ord. 84-3, passed 8-20-84; Am. Ord. 85-1, passed
6-3-85; Am. Ord. 1988-2, passed 4-25-88; Am. Ord. 1991-4, passed 6-10-91; Am.
Ord. 1994-7, passed 7-11-94; Am. Ord. 2010-2, passed 6-14-10)
§ 33.04  CASH RESERVE FUND.
   (A)   The Cash Reserve Fund is hereby established within and on the records
of the Municipal Electric Utility, into which fund shall be transferred or
contributed surplus earnings of that utility from and after June 3, 1985.
   (B)   Such surplus earnings are hereby defined as those cash earnings
remaining after provision has been made to take care of current obligations,
including those for operating expenses, depreciation or replacement fund,
sinking fund, bond and interest retirement fund, and any other priority fund
requirements fixed by law.
   (C)   Additional surplus earning from that utility may be deposited in the
Cash Reserve Fund by resolution of the Town Council at such time as that 
Council determines to be proper.
(Ord. 1985-2, passed 6-17-85)
§ 33.05  RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to all regulations and following all requirements pursuant to
IC 36-1-8-5, a Rainy Day Fund is hereby established within the Budget Year 2001
and continuing forward as provided.
   (B)   Any such transfers shall be set out in resolution form authorizing
reduction.
(Ord. 2001-16, passed 12-21-01)
§ 33.06  LOIT SPECIAL DISTRIBUTION FUND.
   (A)   Establishment. As determined by Senate Enrolled Act 67, the need
exists for the establishment of a LOIT Special Distribution Fund.
   (B)   Expenditures. Expenditures from the Fund are restricted to allowable
purposes as follows:
      (1)   Engineering, land acquisition, construction, resurfacing
maintenance, restoration, or rehabilitation of both local and arterial road and
street systems.
      (2)   Payment of principal and interest on bonds sold primarily to
finance road, street, or thoroughfare projects.
      (3)   Local costs required to undertake a recreational or reservoir road
project under IC 8-23-5.
      (4)   Purchase, rental or repair of highway equipment.
      (5)   Providing a matching grant from the local Road and Bridge Matching
Grant Fund under IC 8-23-30.
      (6)   Capital projects for aviation related property or facilities,
including capital projects of a board of aviation commissioners established
under IC 8-22-2 or an airport authority established under IC 8-22-3-1.
(Ord. 2016-3, passed 6-13-16)
§ 33.07  PROMOTIONAL FUND.
   (A)   The following are allowed as per state statute as reimbursable items
from funds budgeted from the general fund to pay the expenses of or to
reimburse town officials for expenses incurred in promoting the best interests
of the town:
      (1)   Rental of meeting space;
      (2)   Payment for meals, decorations, memorabilia, and awards;
      (3)   Expenses incurred in interviewing job applicants;
      (4)   Expenses incurred in promoting industrial, commercial, and
residential development;
      (5)   Expenses incurred in developing relations with other units of
government;
      (6)   Any expenses of a civic or governmental nature deemed by the Town
Council to be in the interest of the town.
   (B)   Such expenses shall be preapproved by Council where deliberation is
appropriate, but in all cases such claims shall be presented for review and
allowance at the next meeting at which such considerations are made.
(Ord. 1996-6, passed 4-8-96)
§ 33.08  CUMULATIVE BUILDING AND EQUIPMENT FUND.
   (A)   The Warren Cumulative Building or Remodeling, Firefighting, and Police
Radio Equipment Fund” (“Fund”) is hereby established.
   (B)   To provide for that Fund a tax will be levied annually not to exceed
the rate of $0.0333 on each $100 of assessed valuation of property within the
taxing district of the town, commencing with the tax collected in 2002.
   (C)   As that tax is collected it shall be deposited in that Fund to be
appropriated according to law and used for one or more of the following
purposes:
      (1)   The purchase, construction, renovation, or addition to buildings
used by the Volunteer Fire Department, or Fire Department, serving the town.
      (2)   The purchase of fire fighting equipment for use of the Volunteer
Fire Department serving the town, including making the required payments under
a lease rental with option to purchase agreement made to acquire the equipment.
      (3)   The purchase of police radio equipment.
      (4)   The purchase, construction, renovation, or addition to a building,
or the purchase of equipment, for use of a provider of emergency medical
services to the town.
(Ord. 2001-7, passed 7-23-01)
I-69
§ 33.20  I-69 PHASE II PROJECT.
   (A)   The Town and the Redevelopment Commission shall proceed with the Phase
II Project, the cost of which shall not exceed $500,000 without further
authorization from the Town Council, and the financing thereof by the issuance
of water revenue obligations pursuant to and in the manner prescribed by
applicable law.
   (B)   The Phase II Project shall be constructed and installed in accordance
with plans and specifications heretofore prepared by Phillip L. Schnelker,
Inc., consulting engineers employed by the town, which plans and specifications
are hereby approved and which plans are by reference made a part of this
subchapter as fully as if the same were attached hereto and incorporated
herein, and two copies of which are now on file in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer and are open for public inspection.
   (C)   The Redevelopment Commission shall borrow, if necessary, from the
town's electric utility Cash Reserve Fund an aggregate amount not to exceed
$500,000, which funds shall bear interest from the date of transfer until
repayment at 4% per annum, with semi-annual interest payments on dates
authorized by the town's Water Bond Ordinance beginning in 1998, and shall be
repaid not later than five years after the date of the first draw of borrowed
funds authorized herein for the Phase II Project. The borrowing hereby
authorized may be prepaid at any time without penalty.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized and directed to make such
borrowing as and when required to make payment of the costs of the Phase II
Project and the Clerk-Treasurer and President of the Town Council are hereby
authorized and directed to execute all notes and other documents necessary or
reasonable to evidence such borrowing. The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep full and
accurate records of the funds hereby authorized to be received and borrowed,
and the repayment thereof.
(Ord. 1997-21, passed 12-22-97)
§ 33.21  I-69  BOND REPLACEMENT ALLOCATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a fund known as the I-69 Bond Replacement
Allocation Fund. All loan proceeds, tax allocation revenues, and net revenues
(as defined herein) shall be deposited in the I-69 Bond Replacement Allocation
Fund hereby created. From these revenues, the proper and reasonable
expenditures for the local public improvements contemplated herein as provided
by law shall be paid. It is acknowledged, however, that repayment of  amounts
due Huntington County as a result of adjustments relating to incremental tax
revenues from the area constitutes a priority and senior repayment obligation
of the Commission to be repaid from allowable sources. Should the town advance
funds to repay Huntington County from a fund other than the I-69 Bond
Replacement Allocation Fund, it is intended that the town be repaid any such
advance within five years at 4% interest from the I-69 Bond Replacement
Allocation fund as an obligation of the Redevelopment Commission which is
junior to all other obligations to be paid from the said Fund.
   (B)   "Net Revenues" (defined as revenues of the water utility after payment
of operating and maintenance expenses and debt service on outstanding revenue
bonds of the water utility), as used herein, shall mean net revenues of the
water utility generated from connection fees and/or surcharge fees in the
Warren Economic Development Area Phase I ("Area") as an economic development
area established by the Town Development Commission ("Commission") in
Resolution No. WRC-2-1994 adopted on December 29, 1994, which are not needed to
service senior obligations of the water utility; tax revenues distributed to
the town from the Commission generated from the allocation area established by
the Commission in said Resolution No. WRC-2-1994 ("Allocation Area"); and other
revenues specifically dedicated to the project.
   (C)   The town reserves the right to authorize and issue bonds and
obligations payable from net revenues from the water utility on parity with
outstanding bonds and prior to repayment of the obligations provided for by
this subchapter for the purpose of raising funds for future local public
improvements without the consent of the electric utility.
(Ord. 1997-21, passed 12-22-97)
PURCHASING
§ 33.30  AUTHORIZATION TO PURCHASE.
   (A)   Purchasing Agency. The Council is hereby established as the Purchasing
Agency for the town with all of the powers and duties now and hereafter
authorized under IC 5-22 for a purchasing agency and as may be hereafter
supplemented by ordinances and/or policies adopted by the Council.
   (B)   Purchasing Agents.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby designated as a Purchasing Agent of
Council, and is hereby authorized to purchase supplies or services in any
transaction where those supplies or services have an estimated cost of less
than $500 on the open market without inviting or receiving proposals or bids.
      (2)   The Utility Manager and Town Marshal are each hereby authorized to
purchase supplies or services in any transaction where those supplies or
services have an estimated cost of less than $100 on the open market without
inviting or receiving proposals or bids.
(Ord. 1998-7, passed 6-24-98)
§ 33.31  PURCHASING RULES.
   The following purchasing rules are hereby adopted in accordance with the
requirements of state law:
   (A)   Supplies manufactured in the United States are specified and shall be
purchased for all town purchases unless the Council determines that:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States
exceeds by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable
supplies manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
   (B)   Supplies available from the Department of Corrections as anticipated
in IC 5-22-11 and/or the Rehabilitation Center as anticipated in IC 5-22-12
shall be purchased from those entities except as permitted by then applicable
law.
   (C)   A Purchasing Agent may purchase services in whatever manner and on
whatever terms and conditions that Purchasing Agent determines to be reasonable
that are not inconsistent with applicable provisions of Indiana law, town
ordinances, or directives from the Council.
   (D)   The Town Council does hereby order the implementation of purchase
orders for any purchase over the sum of $100 with authorization to place the
order to be given by the Clerk- Treasurer or the Town Council.
   (E)   When specifically directed to do so by Council, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall purchase supplies in any transaction where those supplies have an
estimated cost of $500 or more but less than $25,000 by inviting or receiving
proposals or bids in accordance with state law requirements for purchases from
$25,000 to $75,000 as presently provided by IC 5-22-8-3, unless Council
expressly directs such purchase be made on the open market without so inviting
or receiving proposals or bids.
(Ord. 1992-10, passed 11-10-92; Am. Ord. 1998-7, passed 6-24-98)
§ 33.32  PURCHASING POLICIES.
   (A)   Publication of notices.
      (1)   Invitation for bids. All notices of invitation for bids shall be
published in accordance with IC 5-3-1. The purchasing agent shall schedule the
publication and any statutorily required posting of notice to provide a
reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of bids. The notice
will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second publication
must occur at least ten days prior to the date the bids will be opened.
      (2)   Request for proposals. All notices of request for proposals shall
be published in accordance with IC 5-3-1. The purchasing agent shall schedule
the publication and any statutorily required posting of notice to provide a
reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of proposals. The
notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second
publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the proposals will
be opened.
      (3)   Request for specifications. All notices of request for
specifications shall be published in accordance with IC 5-3-1. The purchasing
agent shall schedule the publication and any statutorily required posting of
notice to provide a reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of
proposals. The notice will be published two times, at least one week apart. The
second publication must occur at least seven days prior to the date the
proposals will be opened.
      (4)   Electronic notices. Whenever a notice or other material, including
specifications, an invitation for bids, request for proposals, or request for
specifications, is sent by mail, the purchasing agent may also send the notice
or other material by electronic means, provided that the transmission of the
information is at least as efficient as mailing the information.
   (B)   Financial responsibility.  The purchasing agent may, and for
solicitations over $100,000 must, require that an offer provide evidence of
financial responsibility. When evidence of financial responsibility is
required, the solicitation must indicate the kind of evidence that will be
acceptable. If a bond or certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of
the estimated cost of the purchase.
   (C)   Receiving offers.
      (1)   Electronic receipt of offers.  The purchasing agent may receive
electronic offers in response to an invitation to bid, request for proposals,
or request for specifications only if:
         (a)   The solicitation includes the procedure for the electronic
transmission of the offer; and
         (b)   The purchasing agent receives the offer on a fax machine or
other system with a security feature that protects the contents of an
electronic offer with the same degree of protection as provided to an offer not
transmitted electronically.
      (2)   Protection of offers. The Purchasing Agent shall retain all offers
received in a secure location and manner prior to the date and time at which
offers will be open to prevent premature disclosure.
      (3)   Delay of opening of offers. Should the Town Council make a written
determination that it is in the town's best interests, offers may be opened
after the time stated in the solicitation. The date, time, and place of any
such rescheduled opening must be announced at the time and place of the
originally scheduled opening.
      (4)   Opening of offers.
         (a)   Bids received in response to an invitation for bids must be
opened publicly in the presence of at least one or more witnesses at the time
and place designated in the invitation for bids.
         (b)   Proposals received in response to a request for proposals must
be opened so as to avoid disclosure of the contents to competing offerors
during the process of negotiation.
         (c)   Proposals received in response to a request for specifications
may be opened as specified in the request for specifications.
      (5)   Correction and withdrawal of bids.
         (a)   An offeror may correct inadvertent errors in a bid up to the
time at which bids will be opened by supplementing the erroneous bid and
submitting a revised bid. A bidder may not supplement an inadvertently
erroneous bid after the time at which the bids were opened.
         (b)   A bidder may withdraw a bid containing inadvertent errors up to
the time at which bids will be opened and for a period of not more than 24
hours after the time at which the bids were opened.
      (6)   Cancellation of solicitation. When the Clerk-Treasurer makes a
written determination that it is in the town's best interests, the Clerk-
Treasurer may cancel a solicitation or reject all offers, provided that the
solicitation included information concerning the procedure for cancellation.
      (7)   Public record status of bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be made available for public inspection and copying
after the bid opening.
      (8)   Public record status of proposals. The purchasing agent shall
prepare a register of proposals for each request for proposals issued
containing information concerning the proposals, which register shall be
available for public inspection and copying. Proposals may not be disclosed.
   (D)   Adjustment of proposals/contracts.
      (1)   Proposal adjustments. The purchasing agent may conduct discussions
with, and best and final offers may be obtained from, responsible offerors
submitting proposals determined by the purchasing agent to be reasonably
susceptible of being selected for a contract award.
      (2)   Price adjustments. The purchasing agent may include provisions to
permit price adjustments in a purchase contract. Those adjustments may be by
agreement on a fixed price adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent
performance, or by unit price, or by attributable cost, or by such other
standard as the contracting parties may mutually agree, so long as that
agreement does not violate requirements of applicable authority.
      (3)   Time of performance adjustments. The purchasing agent may include
provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of contract
performance.
      (4)   Quantity adjustments. The purchasing agent may include in a
purchase contract provisions dealing with variations between estimated
quantities in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
      (5)   Retention of unilateral right to order certain contract
adjustments. In purchase contracts the purchasing agent may retain the right to
order changes in the work within the scope of the contract and/or order
temporary work stoppages and/or delays in time of performance, so long as those
retained rights do not violate the requirements of applicable authority.
(Res. 8-1998, passed 10-12-98)
§ 33.33  REVERSE AUCTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Use of third party to conduct reverse auctions.
      (1)   The purchasing agency is authorized to use a third party to conduct
reverse auction on behalf of the town for the purchase of supplies. The
purchasing agent is authorized to select the third party that will conduct the
reverse auction, who must have prior experience in conducting reverse auctions
on behalf of local governments.
      (2)   The purchasing agent shall obtain a copy of the procedures
established by the third party to conduct the reverse auction on behalf of the
town and present those procedures to the Council for adoption and inclusion in
its applicable procedures prior to participating in a reverse auction conducted
by the third party.
   (B)   Transmission of notices, solicitations and specifications.
      (1)   Notices. The Council shall give notice of a reverse auction by:
         (a)   Publishing notice of the invitation to bid two times, at least
one week apart, with the second publication at least seven days before the
commencement of the reverse auction in accordance with IC 5-22-7-5, and IC 5-
22-18 and IC 5-3-1;
         (b)   Posting the invitation to bid on the town's website; and
         (c)   If a third party is conducting the reverse auction on behalf of
the purchasing agency, by posting, or permitting to have posted, the invitation
to bid on the third party's website.
         (d)   Note: Posting the invitation to bid on a website requires
compliance with IC 5-22-3-4.
         (e)   Note: The Council may also give notice of a reverse auction by
electronic mail or faxes.
      (2)   Solicitations and specifications. The Council shall transmit
solicitations and specifications by:
         (a)   In accordance with the invitation to bid, identifying a
designated location where, during regular business hours, the invitation to bid
may be inspected and copied or copies may be obtained; and
         (b)   Making them available on the town's website or providing
information on the website identifying a designated location where, during
regular business hours, the invitation to bid may be inspected and copied or
copies may be obtained;
         (c)   If a third party is conducting the reverse auction on behalf of
the purchasing agency, making them available on the third party's website.
         (d)   Note: Posting the invitation to bid on a website requires
compliance with IC 5-22-3-4.
   (C)   Pre-qualification of bidders.
      (1)   All bidders desiring to participate in a reverse auction must be
pre-qualified by submitting materials to ensure that they meet the
specifications identified by the buyer as to the types of supplies to be
offered for purchase no later than 24 hours prior to the time for the
commencement of the reverse auction, as provided in the invitation to bid.
      (2)   The pre-qualification process shall be used to determine whether
the bidder is responsible and responsive, as provided in the Act, whether there
is any bidding or purchasing preference or preferences applicable to a
particular bidder, and whether the bidder has submitted evidence of financial
responsibility, as required by the purchasing agency. In order to assist the
Council in pre-qualifying bidders, the bidder must submit, in accordance with
the invitation to bid, all documentation and other information relating to the
supplies being offered for purchase, except for price, and any other
information that may assist the Council in making its determination. Such
documentation will include evidence of financial responsibility or a certified
check, as specified in the invitation to bid.
      (3)   In determining whether a bidder is responsible, the purchasing
agent may consider the following factors:
         (a)   The ability and capacity of the bidder to provide the supplies.
         (b)   The integrity, character, and reputation of the bidder.
         (c)   The competency and experience of the bidder.
      (4)   In determining whether a bidder is responsive, a purchasing agent
may consider the following factors:
         (a)   Whether the bidder has submitted information demonstrating that
his offer for supplies conforms in all material respects to the specifications.
         (b)   Whether the bidder has submitted documentation that complies
specifically with the solicitation and the instructions to bidders.
         (c)   Whether the bidder has complied with all applicable statutes,
ordinances, resolutions, or rules pertaining to the award of a public contract.
      (5)   The determination that a bidder is not responsive or not
responsible must be made in writing.
      (6)   Pre-qualification of bidders must be done by the purchasing agent
or an authorized representative of the purchasing agency in the presence of one
or more witnesses and must be completed no later than 24 hours prior to the
commencement of the reverse auction bidding period.
      (7)   The Council shall notify any bidder determined to be not pre-
qualified in writing, by facsimile, or electronic mail (as requested by the
bidder) and shall exclude the bidder so notified from participation in the
reverse auction.
      (8)   The Council's determination that a bidder is not pre-qualified is
limited to the reverse auction for which the request for pre-qualification was
received.
   (D)   Contents of invitation to bid. The invitation to bid must include all
of the following:
      (1)   A purchase description.
      (2)   A statement that bids will be accepted by means of a reverse
auction process.
      (3)   A description of all contractual terms and conditions that apply to
the purchase, including the requirement of a noncollusion affirmation by the
successful bidder.
      (4)   The criteria that will be used by the purchasing agency to pre-
qualify bidders to determine whether a bidder is responsive and responsible.
      (5)   The information and other documentation required to be submitted
for prequalification, including a certified check or other evidence of
financial responsibility.
      (6)   The location and manner in which bidders must submit information
for prequalification, the deadline for submission of such information, and the
deadline by which the Council will determine whether a bidder is pre-qualified.
      (7)   The location, including any websites, at which the invitation to
bid may be inspected and copied or copies may be obtained, including, if a
third party is conduction the reverse auction, the procedures to be used by the
third party to conduction the reverse auction.
      (8)   A statement as to whether a third party is conducting the reverse
auction on behalf of the town.
      (9)   A statement that offers submitted by pre-qualified bidders will
only be received through the town's secure website; or if a third party is
conducting the reverse auction on behalf of the town, through the third party's
secure website.
      (10)   The date and time at which the reverse auction bidding period will
commence and the approximate length of time for which the reverse auction will
be conducted, allowing automatic extensions based upon resulting competitive
activity.
      (11)   The deadline by which pre-qualified bidders must submit an initial
price to a secure website for the purposes of establishing a bidder's
participation and initial ranking at the commencement of the reverse auction
bidding period.
      (12)   A statement explaining that the bidding period during which the
reverse auction is conducted may be extended based upon competitive activity,
at pre-determined periods determined by the purchasing agency.
      (13)   A statement identifying the circumstances under which the reverse
auction may be postponed, paused, rescheduled, or cancelled.
      (14)   The place and approximate time at which, following the close of
the bidding period, offers will be reviewed publicly by an authorized
representative of the purchasing agency in the presence of one or more
witnesses.
      (15)   A statement that the third party conducting the auction on behalf
of the town, will collect a service charge from the successful bidder for its
participation in the reverse auction.
      (16)   The name, address, and telephone number of a representative of the
purchasing agency who can provide additional information related to the reverse
auction.
      (17)   If a third party is conducting the auction on behalf of the town,
the name, address, and telephone number of a representative of the third party
who can provide additional information related to the reverse auction,
including the mandatory training required of all pre-qualified bidders as a
condition of participating in the reverse auction.
      (18)   The conditions under which the invitation to bid may be cancelled
or postponed in accordance with IC 5-22-18-1.
   (E)   Receiving offers.
      (1)   The Council shall receive offers only from bidders who have been
pre-qualified, in accordance with the invitation to bid.
      (2)   If a third party conducts the reverse auction on behalf of the
town, all prequalified bidders must receive training provided by the third
party in order to participate in the reverse auction.
      (3)   Prior to receiving electronic offers, the Council must find that:
         (a)   The invitation for bid for the reverse auction indicates the
procedure for transmitting the electronic offer; and
         (b)   The electronic system on which the offer is received has a
security feature that protects the content of an electronic offer with the same
degree of protection as the content of an offer that is not transmitted by
electronic means.
      (4)   In accordance with the invitation to bid, offers submitted by pre-
qualified bidders will only be received:
         (a)   Through the town’s secure website; or
         (b)   If a third party is conducting the reverse auction on behalf of
the town, through the third party’s secure website.
   (F)   Reverse auction bidding period.
      (1)   For each reverse auction, the purchasing agent must establish an
initial bidding period during which bidders may submit prices for which the
supplies being offered may be purchased. The initial bidding period shall not
be less than one hour. The purchasing agent may automatically extend the
reverse auction bidding period for additional pre-determined periods based upon
competitive activity.
      (2)    During the bidding period for the reverse auction, information
available for public display is limited to the ranking, price and name of
bidders of each price bid relative to all other prices bid.
      (3)   The dollar amounts of the prices bid by bidders shall not be
disclosed to the bidders until the close of the bidding period.
      (4)   All information received, obtained or retained during a reverse
auction remains confidential and may not be disclosed until after the close of
the reverse auction bidding period.
      (5)   All information received, obtained or retained during a reverse
auction remains confidential and may not be disclosed until after the close of
the reverse auction bidding period.
   (G)   Opening offers. In accordance with the Act, offers will be deemed to
be opened when a computer generated record of the information contained in all
bids received from pre-qualified responsive and responsible bidders is reviewed
publicly at the close of the bidding period for the reverse auction in the
presence of one or more witnesses at the time and place designated in the
invitation for bids by the purchasing agency (or an authorized representative
of the purchasing agency, including the purchasing agent).
   (H)   Contract award.
      (1)   In accordance with IC 5-22-7-8, the purchasing agency must award a
contract for the purchase of supplies with reasonable promptness by written
notice to the lowest responsible and responsive bidder.
      (2)   If the contract is not awarded to the lowest bidder, the purchasing
agent must indicate the reasons for the award in writing.
      (3)   As provided in the invitation to bid, the third party conducting
the reverse auction may impose a fee as a term of the contract for a purchase
made by means of a reverse auction.
   (I)   Purchase orders and payments.
      (1)   A fully executed purchase order must be filed with the Clerk-
Treasurer within 30 days after the award of a contract of a purchase of
supplies through a reverse auction in accordance with IC 5-22-18-5.
      (2)   Payments for supplies purchased in a reverse auction shall be made
only after receiving properly submitted claims in accordance with IC 5-11-10
and IC 36-4-8/IC 36-5-4.
   (J)   Documentation. The purchasing agency shall be required to maintain
adequate documentation regarding its reverse auctions so that the transactions
may be audited as provided by law. The purchasing agency shall maintain an
indexed file of specifications prepared by or under the authority of its
purchasing agents for each reverse auction in which the purchasing agency
participates.
(Res. 6-2004, passed 7-26-04)
POLICIES
§ 33.50  REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES INCURRED ON BEHALF OF THE TOWN.
   The Town Council shall from time to time budget and appropriate moneys from
the general fund for the following purposes:
   (A)   To pay the expenses of or to reimburse town officials for expenses
incurred in promoting the best interests of the town.  Such expenses may
include, but shall not be limited to, rental of meeting places, meals,
decorations, memorabilia, awards, expenses incurred in interviewing job
applicants, expenses incurred  in  promoting  industrial,  commercial  or
residential development, expenses incurred in developing relations with other
units of government, and any other expenses of a civic or governmental nature
which are from time to time determined by the Town Council to be in the best
interests of the town.
   (B)   To defray the expenses of membership and participation of the town and
its representatives in local, regional, state and national associations of a
civic or governmental nature which have as a primary purpose the betterment and
improvement of municipal government operations.
('83 Code, § 2-8)
   (C)   To reimburse town officials, employees or town representatives for
mileage at the then current IRS mileage allotment as per the personnel policy,
parking, and toll fees when on official business of the town.
§ 33.51  INVENTORY OF FIXED ASSETS.
   The town shall create and maintain a complete inventory of the town's fixed
assets having a value, or acquired at a price, in excess of $1,000.
(Ord. 1996-18, passed 12-9-96; Am. Ord. 1999-3, passed 8-23-99)
§ 33.52  PREPAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   Prepayment of claims and bills shall be allowed as per state statute
with definition as provided:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
         (a)   The United States government; or
         (b)   An agency or a political subdivision of the United States
government.
      (2)   License or permit fees.
      (3)   Insurance premiums.
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges.
      (5)   Federal grant programs if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited: and
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute.
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements.
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements.
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds.
      (10)   Payroll.
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes.
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances.
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (B)   All such payments shall be made as further defined by statute and all
such claims shall be presented for review and allowance at the Council's next
regular or special meeting.
(Ord. 1996-2, passed 2-26-96)
§ 33.53  PLACEMENT OF INVESTMENTS OUTSIDE TOWN DEPOSITORY.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer to invest in
depositories heretofore not designated by the town but so designated as public
depositories by the State of Indiana.
   (B)   Such authority to invest shall be limited to financial institutions
within Huntington County and such authority shall include all practices and
procedures as stipulated in state law.
(Ord. 1996-7, passed 4-8-96)
§ 33.54  CREDIT CARD POLICY.
   (A)   Credit card issuance.
      (1)   The town shall maintain a business credit card from only one credit
card company.
      (2)   A card so issued shall have a maximum limit of $5,000.
   (B)   Credit card use policies and procedures.
      (1)   When not in use, the credit card shall be in the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Upon request by a city official or employee, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall issue the credit card for use and shall keep a record showing the date of
issuance, date of return and purpose of use.
      (3)   Charges shall only be made on the credit card to purchase items or
services which are authorized and budgeted in the budget of the town or
otherwise approved by Town Council. Such purchases shall follow all purchasing
procedures as currently in place for the town.
      (4)   Within 24 hours of the use, the person using the credit card shall
provide a copy of the credit card receipt to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office with
the following information:
         (a)   Description of purchase/depart-ment.
         (b)   Itemized list of all charges incurred.
         (c)   Signature of the purchaser/super-visor.
      (5)   All credit card billing statements shall be sent by the issuer to
the Clerk-Treasurer and the charges on the cards shall be paid by the Clerk-
Treasurer from the appropriate budget line item pursuant to the claims
procedures for the town.
      (6)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall pay the charge card billing promptly so
that no interest carrying charges of penalties will be incurred due to late
payments. Any employee who causes interest or carrying charges to be added to
the credit card account by a failure to timely provide the required information
to the Clerk-Treasurer shall be personally liable for the interest or carrying
charge.
      (7)   No credit card issued by the town for any elected officer or
employee shall be used for private purchase.
(Ord. 2006-3, passed 4- -05)
§ 33.55  ACCEPTANCE OF CREDIT CARDS AS PAYMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council authorizes the acceptance of  Visa and Mastercard
credit cards in the conduct of monetary transactions through the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office.
   (B)   A user fee is established of 3% per transaction. That fee shall be
collected and retained by the town to offset the cost of the transaction and
related cost to operation of the system.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 12-20-07)
§ 33.56  IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   Purpose. This plan is intended to identify red flags that will alert
town employees when new or existing accounts are opened using false
information, protect against the establishment of false accounts, establish
methods to ensure existing accounts were not opened using false information,
and establish a method to respond to such actions.
   (B)   Responsible party. The management person responsible for this plan is
the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Risk assessment. The town Municipal Utilities has conducted an
internal risk assessment to evaluate how at risk the current procedures are at
allowing customers to create a fraudulent account and to evaluate if current
(existing) accounts are being manipulated. This risk assessment evaluated how
new accounts were opened and the methods used to access the account
information. Using this information the Office of Municipal Utilities was able
to identify red flags that were appropriate to prevent identity theft.
      (1)   New accounts opened in person.
      (2)   Account information accessed in person.
      (3)   Credit, past utility information required.
      (4)   Social security number required.
      (5)   Contact information required other than landlord or person at same
address.
      (6)   Photo ID required if not known to staff.
   (D)   Detection. The town Municipal Utilities adopts the following red flags
to detect potential fraud. These are not intended to be all-inclusive as all
other suspicious activity may be investigated as necessary.
      (1)   Identification documents appear to be altered.
      (2)   Photo and physical appearance do not match applicant.
      (3)   Information is inconsistent with other information provided by
applicant.
      (4)   Information is inconsistent with other information which is on
file.
      (5)   Application is altered or reassembled prior to submission.
      (6)   Personal information provided by applicant does not match other
sources of information (driver’s license information, employee knowledge of
applicant, and the like).
      (7)   Information provided is associated with known fraudulent activity,
(e.g., address or phone number provided is same as that of a fraudulent
application).
      (8)   Information commonly associated with fraudulent activity is
provided by applicant (e.g., non-working phone number, answering service or
pager number).
      (9)   Social security number, address, or telephone number is same as
that of another customer of the Utilities.
      (10)   Customer fails to provide all information requested.
      (11)   Personal information provided is inconsistent with information on
file or information known to the employee.
      (12)   Applicant cannot provide information requested beyond what could
commonly be found in a purse or wallet.
      (13)   Report of identity theft is reported or discovered.
   (E)   Response. Any employee that may suspect fraud or detect a red flag
will implement the following response as applicable. All detections or
suspicious red flags shall be reported to the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (1)   Request applicant to supply further documentation (e.g., driver’s
license number).
      (2)   Refuse to open account.
      (3)   Close the account.
      (4)   Any utility employee who becomes aware of a suspected or actual
fraudulent use of a customer or potential customer’s identity must notify the
Clerk-Treasurer.
      (5)   Notify law enforcement. The Utility will notify the Town Marshal of
any attempted or actual identity theft.
      (6)   Employers are required to notify the Clerk-Treasurer immediately if
a potential security breach is identified (e.g., stolen equipment, phishing,
and the like).
   (F)   Personal information security procedures. The town Municipal Utilities
adopts the following security procedures.
      (1)   Employees shall not leave sensitive papers out on desks when away
from the workplace.
      (2)   Employees shall log off computers when leaving the workplace.
      (3)   Any sensitive information shipped will be shipped using a shipping
service that allows tracking of delivery.
      (4)   No visitor will be given entry codes or allowed unescorted access
to office.
      (5)   Access to information will be protected by passwords which shall be
changed every 30 days.
      (6)   User names and passwords shall be different.
      (7)   User names and passwords shall not be written or posted at
workstation at any time.
      (8)   Password-activated screen savers will be used to lock computers
after a period of inactivity.
      (9)   User names and passwords shall be known to employees only, not to
vendors.
      (10)   All user names, passwords and/or other security measures, as
necessary, shall be changed upon transfer or termination of employment for any
reason.
      (11)   Personal identifying information shall not be sent by e-mail.
      (12)   Anti-virus and anti-spyware programs shall be installed and kept
current.
      (13)   Laptop users shall not store sensitive information on the unit.
      (14)   The computer network will have a firewall.
      (15)   Any wireless network will be installed with security codes.
      (16)   References or background checks shall be done before hiring
employees who will have access to sensitive information.
      (17)   New employees shall sign an agreement of confidentiality and
security standards.
      (18)   Access to a customer’s identity shall limited to a need-to-know
basis.
      (19)   Paper records shall be shredded if identity information present.
      (20)   Paper shredders shall be available at each desk in the office.
      (21)   Any data storage media will be disposed of by shredding, punching
holes, or incineration.
   (G)   Annual review. This policy shall be reviewed on an annual basis but at
all times shall be subject to review and amendment as needed. Amendment to this
policy must follow the same procedure as is used in amendment to any portion of
the Town Code or policy.
(Res. 1-2009, passed 3-23-09)
Cross-reference:
   Public utilities generally, see
Chapter 50
§ 33.57  MATERIALITY POLICY AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   IC 5-11-1-27(j) establishes that all erroneous or irregular
material variances, losses, shortages, or thefts of political subdivision funds
or property not related to a clerical error that can be remedied at no loss to
a political subdivision of the State of Indiana shall be reported immediately
to the Indiana State Board of Accounts. For all material variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts, the State Board of Accounts shall:
         (a)   Determine the amount of funds involved and report the amount to
the appropriate government and law enforcement officials;
         (b)   Determine the internal control weakness that contributed to or
caused the condition; and
         (c)   Make written recommendations to the appropriate legislative body
or appropriate official overseeing the internal control system addressing:
            1.   The method of correcting the condition; and
            2.   The necessary internal control policies and internal control
procedures that must be modified to prevent a recurrence of the condition.
      (2)   The Indiana State Board of Accounts has ruled that in general, each
political subdivision must develop its own policy on materiality because the
causes of such irregular variances, losses, shortages, and thefts are as broad
and varied as the political subdivisions in which the incidents might and could
occur.
   (B)   It is hereby established by the Town Council that the threshold at
which point the material variance, loss, shortage, or theft shall be reported
to the Indiana State Board of Accounts as set out in IC 5-11-1-27(l) which
requires public officials who have actual knowledge or reasonable cause to
believe that there has been misappropriation to report it immediately to the
Indiana State Board of Accounts and to the Huntington County Prosecuting
Attorney be set as follows:
      (1)   A one-time loss of at least $5,000;
      (2)   A recurring cash loss of at least $2,000 average per month;
      (3)   A value of $5,000 for a one-time loss of assets; or
      (4)   A creation of additional liabilities of at least $2,000 per month.
   (C)   The Town of Warren Council does recognize that variances, losses,
shortages, and thefts may occur, and if such an incident occurs, it is the
Council’s position that the Clerk-Treasurer or such other employee as becomes
aware of the variance, loss, shortage or theft does report the same to the
President of the Town Council and to the Clerk-Treasurer to be placed on the
agenda for resolution at a called meeting of Town Council.
   (D)   All items not meeting established criteria for reporting to the
Indiana State Board of Accounts shall be resolved at the Town Council level
with appropriate documentation retained in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer
by:
      (1)   Implementation of procedures designed to prevent the recurrence of
such incidents: and
      (2)   Institution of appropriate disciplinary action against the employee
(s) responsible.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 3-14-16)
§ 33.58  INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Adoption. The town adopted as its policy the minimum requirements of
IC 5-11-1-27, and authorizes the development and implementation of specific
policies to effectuate those requirements.
   (B)   Objectives. The town finds that its objectives as related to an
internal control system are as follows:
      (1)   Operations objectives, which are designed to analyze operational
and performance goals, along with the effectiveness and efficiencies of the way
governmental services are performed and the safeguarding of assets;
      (2)   Reporting objectives, which are designed to consider the
dissemination of financial and non-financial information, internally and
externally; and
      (3)   Compliance objectives, which are designed to assure adherence to
applicable laws and regulations.
   (C)   Minimum requirements. The minimum requirements of IC 5-11-1-27 adopted
by the town shall specifically include the five components as described in the
Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana Political Subdivision guidance
document from the State Board of Accounts dated September 2015, and any
subsequent version thereof, which are the following: (1) control environment;
(2) risk assessment; (3) control activities; (4) information and communication;
and (5) monitoring.;
   (D)   Principles adopted. The town specifically adopts the following
principles to effectuate the five components above:
      (1)   Control environment.
         (a)   The oversight body and management demonstrate a commitment to
integrity and ethical values;
         (b)   The oversight body oversees the town’s internal control system;
         (c)   Management establishes an organizational structure, assigns
responsibility, and delegates authority to achieve the town’s objectives;
         (d)   Management demonstrates a commitment to attract, develop, and
retain competent individuals; and
         (e)   Management evaluates performance and holds individuals
accountable for their internal control responsibilities.
      (2)   Risk assessment.
         (a)   Management defines objectives clearly to enable the
identification of risks and defines risk tolerances;
         (b)   Management identifies, analyzes, and responds to risk related to
achieving the defined objectives;
         (c)   Management considers the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing, and responding to risks; and
         (d)   Management identifies, analyzes, and responds to significant
changes that, could impact the internal control system.
      (3)   Control activities.
         (a)   Management designs control activities to achieve objectives and
respond to risks;
         (b)   Management designs the town’s information system and related
control activities to achieve objectives and respond to risks; and
         (c)   Management implements control activities through policies.
      (4)   Information and communication.
         (a)   Management uses quality information to achieve the town’s
objectives;
         (b)   Management internally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town’s objectives; and
         (c)   Management externally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town’s objectives.
      (5)   Monitoring activities.
         (a)   Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results; and
         (b)   Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies
on a timely basis.
   (E)   Use of principles. The Town Council directs that the above principles
be used to design, implement, operate, and modify current operations,
reporting, and compliance objectives, where necessary, to establish and ensure
that the minimum internal control standards and procedures are met or exceeded.
   (F)   Review to ensure compliance. The Town Council authorizes the Town
Council President and Clerk-Treasurer to review the current internal control
system of the town and to implement a policy that ensures that the minimum
internal control standards and procedures are met or exceeded in compliance
with IC 5-11-1-27.
   (G)   Affected personnel; training. The personnel whose official duties
include receiving, processing, depositing, disbursing, or otherwise having
access to funds that belong to the federal government, state government, a
political subdivision, or another governmental entity shall comply with the
minimum internal control standards and procedures and any other policy
implemented to effectuate or surpass those standards, and that they shall be
trained at least once during a calendar year and annually thereafter, unless on
leave status, on the adopted and implemented control standards and procedures.
   (H)   Certification by fiscal officer. The fiscal officer of the town shall
certify in writing that the minimum internal control standards and procedures
have been adopted by the town and that the personnel, who are not otherwise on
leave status, have received training, which shall be filed annually with the
State Board of Accounts at the same time as the annual financial report
required by IC 5-11-1-4(a).
   (I)   Determination of affected personnel. The town authorizes the Town
Council President and Clerk-Treasurer to determine which personnel must receive
the required training and to notify such personnel.
   (J)   Cooperation in implementation. All elected and appointed officials of
the town are hereby directed to abide by and to cooperate fully in the
implementation and modification of the internal control system.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 6-13-16)
CHAPTER 34:  EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Employment handbook
   
34.02   Supporting emergency service personnel
Town Utility and Part-Time Employees
   
34.15   Utility Manager
   
34.16   Duties
   
34.17   Compensation
   
34.18   Vacations
   
34.19   Other benefits
Law Enforcement Personnel
   
34.30   Duties
Elected and Appointed Officials
   
34.45   Duties
   
34.46   Compensation
   
34.47   Other benefits
   
34.48   Office closing
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01  EMPLOYMENT HANDBOOK.
   (A)   The form of Employment Handbook attached to and adopted by Res. 8-1995
as Exhibit A is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code the
same as if set forth herein at length. The policies, procedures, and provisions
contained therein shall supersede prior employment policies to the extent such
policies are inconsistent with express provisions contained in the Employment
Handbook provided, however, that any new privilege or benefit set forth in the
handbook shall apply only prospectively after adoption.
   (B)   A copy of the Employment Handbook is made a part of the permanent
record in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Res. 8-1995, passed 10-23-95)
§ 34.02  SUPPORTING EMERGENCY SERVICE PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Each on duty employee of the town is expected to provide assistance to
community emergency service personnel when requested if the assistance
requested is:
      (1)   Within the ability of the employee; and
      (2)   Does not unreasonably place the employee at risk; and
      (3)   Does not leave town interests either unreasonably exposed to risk
of loss or in such a way as to pose an unreasonable risk to the interests of
others.
   (B)   Any such town employee who provides such assistance shall notify that
employee's immediate superior of the particulars at the first available
opportunity.
(Res. 16-1993, passed 10-25-93)
   (C)   (1)   To the extent that the following is not inconsistent with either
state law or an express directive contained in a then effective ordinance or
resolution of the Town Council, an employee who has been dispatched by
Huntington County and as a result provided emergency service as a member of the
Warren/Salamonie Township Fire Company during time which is also that
employee's regular working time as a town employee, shall be paid by the town
for that regular working time as a town employee without decrease or increase
in compensation to that employee from the town as a result of that employee
service.
      (2)   As provided in Indiana Public Law 68, an employee dispatched as
provided in §
34.02(C)(1) above need not clock out to leave, but an adequate record of time
spent in any such emergency service during time paid for by the town under §
34.02(C)(1) shall be determined and maintained by that employee's immediate
supervisor.
(Ord. 1998-8, passed 7-13-98)
TOWN UTILITY AND PART-TIME EMPLOYEES
§ 34.15  UTILITY MANAGER.
   (A)   The Town Council may from time to time employ a person to serve as the
town's Utility Manager, with such qualifications (including but not limited to
the timely obtaining and maintaining of appropriate certifications, duties and
responsibilities), and on such terms and conditions, and in accordance with
such rules, regulations, policies and procedures or standards of conduct, as
are established for that position from time to time by the Town Council.
   (B)   The position of Utility Manager shall be compensated at the rate set
by ordinance of the Town Council.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to create an employment
relationship between the town and its Utility Manager other than an employment
at will.
(Ord. 1997-7, passed 5-12-97)
§ 34.16  DUTIES.
   Full and part-time employees shall follow the Town Code, as well as rules
and regulations, and personnel policy as those rules and regulations now exist,
and are hereafter modified by action of the Town Council.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 12-23-96)
§ 34.17  COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Rate.  The utility employees of the town shall be compensated from the
various utility funds at the rate established by current ordinance of Town
Council.
   (B)   Overtime.
      (1)   More than 40 work hours per week shall be paid at the rate of time
and one half except holidays. Vacations, holidays, personal time, and sick days
will be considered as hours worked toward unscheduled overtime.
      (2)   All overtime shall be explained in writing on the back of the time
card. Name of person requesting assistance and nature of call must be
explained. Clock-in is necessary for all calls other than emergency.
      (3)   Overtime will be paid in 1/10 of an hour increments.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 12-23-96)
§ 34.18  VACATIONS.
   (A)   Vacations must be approved in advance by the supervisor.
   (B)   Vacation days must be taken at least one day at a time, but not more
than ten days may be used consecutively without prior Council approval.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 12-23-96)
§ 34.19  OTHER BENEFITS.
   All full time employees shall have the following additional benefits:
   (A)   (1)   Insurance under a group policy selected by the Town Council,
except that the employee shall pay the following toward the premium:
         (a)   $2.00 per month;
         (b)   10% per month of dependent coverage.
      (2)   Any employee who does not qualify for existing insurance financial
coverage offered by the town, as in coverage of insurance deductible, shall be
paid a sum equal to that coverage as part of that employee’s annual wage. Such
payment shall be made one time annually through the payroll process.
   (B)   Clothing rental from a vendor selected by the Town Council.
   (C)   Retirement plan amounts shall be established by ordinance for each
current year.
   (D)   Disability pay.  Full time employees shall be paid salary (40 hours)
net of workers compensation payments or disability income, for 13 weeks.
      (1)   The employee may use paid days, or vacation days without pay, prior
to eligibility for disability pay for illness. Injury disability compensation
will begin the first day as per insurance or workers compensation.
      (2)   Significant or total disability from one cause or more than one
related cause must be separated from another disability related cause by at
least 45 calendar days of nondisability in order that an additional 13-week
eligibility period would commence as per town compensation.
(Ord. 1996-15, passed 12-23-96; Am. Ord. 2007-3, passed 5-14-07)
LAW ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL
§ 34.30  DUTIES.
   Full and part-time law enforcement officers of the town shall follow the
Town Code, as well as any rules, regulations, policies and standards of conduct
for law enforcement officers of the town as those standards now exist, and are
hereafter modified by action of the Town Council.
(Ord. 1996-16, passed 12-23-96)
ELECTED AND APPOINTED OFFICIALS
§ 34.45  DUTIES.
   Elected officials of the town shall follow the Town Code, as well as
applicable law in the administration of their responsibility to the town. The
Deputy Clerk-Treasurer and employees of the Clerk-Treasurer shall be under the
direct supervision of the Clerk- Treasurer, as well as the rules and
regulations and policies as now exist and are hereafter modified by action of
the Town Council.
(Ord. 1996-17, passed 12-23-96)
§ 34.46  COMPENSATION.
   Elected officials and employees of the Clerk- Treasurer's office shall be
compensated at the current rate established by ordinance of the Town Council.
(Ord. 1996-17, passed 12-23-96)
§ 34.47  OTHER BENEFITS.
   All benefits shall be provided as to other regular full time employees of
the town, excluding public safety employees, as applicable.
(Ord. 1996-17, passed 12-23-96)
§ 34.48  OFFICE CLOSING.
   In addition to holidays as provided through policy, the Clerk-Treasurer's
office shall be closed for primary election as well as for state and district
meetings for which attendance by office personnel is requested by the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Ord. 1996-17, passed 12-23-96)
CHAPTER 35:  MUNICIPAL VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
35.01   Municipal Violations Bureau established
§ 35.01  MUNICIPAL VIOLATIONS BUREAU ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Municipal Violations Bureau for the town
pursuant to the provisions of IC 33-6-3-1.
   (B)   The Town Clerk- Treasurer from time to time is hereby appointed as
that Bureau's Violations Clerk and as administrator to act with regard to
ordinance violations cases as provided by the applicable law.
   (C)   The following schedule of code provisions of the town are subject to
admission of violation before the Violations Clerk of the town.  Also, the
penalties to be assessed a violator who elects to admit a violation are set out
in this schedule.
Town Code Penalty
Town Code                               Penalty
§                                      $25
32.18(C)
§                                      25
32.20
§                                      25
32.21
§
53.03 -
53.09,
53.20 -
53.23,                                  25
53.35 -
53.46,
53.60 -
53.66
Title VII (except moving traffic        25
violations)
Chapter 90                              25
Chapter 91                              25
§                                      25
92.02(B)
§§
93.04 -                                 25
93.06
§                                      25
93.15(A)
§                                      25
93.18
§                                      25
93.19
Chapter 110                             25
Chapter 112                             25
§                                      25
130.03
Each code/ordinance provision not
specified above, whether adopted before The amount of the maximum civil penalty
or after this schedule, which           which may be imposed for a violation of
applicable law permits to be processed  that provision, or $25, whichever is
through a municipal violations bureau,  greater.
and for which the maximum civil penalty
permitted by law does not exceed $200.
 
In no case shall any such penalty so administered exceed the amount of $100 as
prescribed under IC 33-6-3-1, said Indiana State Statute revision effective
July 1, 1998.
(Ord. 1988-6, passed 5-23-88; Am. Ord. 1998-10, passed 8-10-98)
Editor’s note:
   IC 33-6-3-1 was repealed by P.L. 98-2004, Sec. 164.
CHAPTER 36: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
   
36.01   Adoption of Access to Public Records Act as local policy
   
36.02   Certain public records exempted from disclosure by statute
   
36.03   Certain public records declared exempt from disclosure by the town
   
36.04   List of names and addresses
   
36.05   Records access officers; guidelines
   
36.06   Request to inspect or copy public record; time for response
   
36.07   Fees
   
36.08   Deposit of fees
   
36.09   Unauthorized alteration of a public record
 
   
36.99   Penalty
§ 36.01  ADOPTION OF ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS ACT AS LOCAL POLICY.
   A fundamental philosophy of the American constitutional form of
representative government is that government is the servant of the people and
not their master. Accordingly, it is the public policy of the town, that all
persons are entitled to full and complete information regarding the affairs of
government and the official acts of those who represent them as public
officials and employees as permitted by applicable law. This section, by its
adoption of the provisions of IC 5-14-3-1 et seq., Access to Public Records
Act, as amended, shall be construed according to the policy and direction of
that statute.
(Ord. 2002-4, passed 7-10-02)
§ 36.02  CERTAIN PUBLIC RECORDS EXEMPTED FROM DISCLOSURE BY STATUTE.
   As required by statute, the following public records are exempted from
public disclosure unless access to the record is specifically required by a
state or federal statute or is ordered by a court under the rules of discovery:
   (A)   Those declared confidential by state statute;
   (B)   Those declared confidential by rule adopted by a public agency under
specific authority to classify public records as confidential granted to the
public agency by statute;
   (C)   Those records that are required to be kept confidential by federal
law;
   (D)   Those records containing trade secrets;
   (E)   Confidential financial information obtained, upon request, from a
person. However, this does not include information that is filed with or
received by a public agency pursuant to state statute;
   (F)   Documents declared confidential by or under rules adopted by the
Supreme Court of Indiana;
   (G)   Medical records and charts created by a provider, unless the requester
has written consent of the subject; and
   (H)   The telephone number, social security number, and address of a
consumer of a municipality owned utility.
(Ord. 2002-4, passed 7-10-02)
§ 36.03  CERTAIN PUBLIC RECORDS DECLARED EXEMPT FROM DISCLOSURE BY THE TOWN.
   In addition to those records listed in §
36.02 and as permitted by statute, the town hereby declares the following areas
of public records also exempt from disclosure:
   (A)   Investigatory records of a law enforcement agency, except those law
enforcement records which must be available for inspection and copying as
provided in IC 5-14-3-5, as amended;
   (B)   The work product of an attorney representing the town or any of its
departments or agencies or any individual;
   (C)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used in
administering any licensing examination, examination for employment, or
academic examination before the examination is given or if it is to be given
again;
   (D)   Scores of tests or license examinations if the person is identified by
name and has not consented to the release of the score;
   (E)   Records that contain intraagency or interagency advisory or
deliberative material that are expressions of opinion or are of a speculative
nature that are communicated for the purposes of decision making;
   (F)   Diaries, journals, or other personal notes serving as a functional
equivalent of a diary or journal;
   (G)   Personnel files of public employees except for:
      (1)   The name, compensation, job title (unless a member of the law
enforcement agency), business address, business telephone number, job
description (unless a member of the law enforcement agency), education and
training background, previous work experience, or dates of  first and last
employment of present or former officers or employees of the agency or town,
      (2)   Information relating the status of any formal charges against the
employee, and
      (3)   Information concerning disciplinary actions in which final action
has been taken and that resulted in the employee being disciplined or
discharged;  however,
      (4)   Notwithstanding any contrary provisions of division (G), all
personnel file information shall be made available to the effected employee or
his representative;
   (H)   Administrative or technical information that would jeopardize a
recordkeeping or security system;
   (I)   Computer programs, computer codes, computer filing systems, and other
software that are owned by the town or entrusted to it by license;
   (J)   Records specifically prepared for discussion or developed during
discussion in an executive session; and
   (K)   The identity of a donor of a gift made to the town or public agency if
a donor requires non-disclosure of his identity as a condition of making a
gift.
(Ord. 2002-4, passed 7-10-02)
§ 36.04  LIST OF NAMES AND ADDRESSES.
   Notwithstanding any other portion of this chapter, the town is not required
to create or provide copies of lists of names and addresses unless the town is
required to publish those lists and disseminate them to the public pursuant to
statute. However, if the town has created a list of names and addresses it must
permit a person to inspect and make memoranda abstracts from the list unless
access to the list is prohibited by law. The following lists of names and
addresses may not be disclosed by the town to commercial entities for
commercial purposes and may not be used by commercial entities for commercial
purposes:
   (1)   A list of employees of the town,
   (2)   A list of persons attending conferences or meetings at a state
institution of higher education, and/or
   (3)   A list of persons involved in programs or activities conducted or
supervised by the state institution of higher education.
(Ord. 2002-4, passed 7-10-02)
§ 36.05  RECORDS ACCESS OFFICERS;  GUIDELINES.
   (A)   In order to implement this chapter, the town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby
designated as the person responsible for the public records release decisions,
and will be referred to as the Records Access Officer.
   (B)   The Records Access Officer shall be guided by the Access to Public
Records Act, (IC 5-14-3-1 et seq.), as amended, and shall also be guided by
this chapter and any state and federal law regarding privacy, confidentiality,
and disclosure requirements of certain records.
(Ord. 2002-4, passed 7-10-02)
§ 36.06  REQUEST TO INSPECT OR COPY PUBLIC RECORD; TIME FOR RESPONSE.
   (A)   Any person may inspect and copy the public records of the town during
regular business hours, unless such records are otherwise exempted from
disclosure as provided herein, under IC 5-14-3-4, or other applicable state or
federal law. This section is subject to IC 5-14-3-5, as amended, relating to
information that must be disclosed relating to an individual's arrest.
   (B)   A request for inspection or copying must:
      (1)   Identify with reasonable particularity the record being requested;
and
      (2)   Be in writing or in a form provided by the town.
   (C)   The town must respond to hand-delivered requests within 24 business
hours. The town must respond to written requests received by mail or facsimile
within 7 calendar days.
   (D)   If there is reasonable access to a machine capable of reproducing the
record the town shall provide at least one copy of the record to the person
based on the fees set forth herein. The compilation and copying of any such
public documents will be provided within a reasonable period of time after the
request is made, but may not unreasonably interfere with the operations of the
town. If the town does not have reasonable access to a machine capable of
reproducing the record, the person is only entitled to inspect and manually
transcribe the record.
(Ord. 2002-4, passed 7-10-02)
§ 36.07  FEES.
   (A)   The town may not charge any fee to inspect a public record, or to
search for, examine or review a record to determine whether the record may be
disclosed.
   (B)   The town shall charge a uniform fee as set forth in the Fee Schedule
attached to Ord. 2002-4  for the certification, copying, or facsimile machine
transmission of public records.
   (C)   Notwithstanding division (A) or (B), the town shall collect any
certification, copying, or facsimile machine transmission, or search fee as
required by statute or by court order.
   (D)   Fees shall be paid in advance. If the exact fee cannot be determined
at the time the request is made, an estimated fee shall be paid in advance and
the balance due prior to delivery of the public documents. Any overpayment of
fees will be refunded to the person making the request at the time of delivery.
(Ord. 2002-4, passed 7-10-02)
§ 36.08  DEPOSIT OF FEES.
   All fees received from a person pursuant to this policy shall be deposited
into the General Fund.
(Ord. 2002-4, passed 7-10-02)
§ 36.09  UNAUTHORIZED ALTERATION OF A PUBLIC RECORD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person having or obtaining access to a public
record to alter the content of the public record from its original state.
(Ord. 2002-4, passed 7-10-02) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating §
36.09 above shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500.00 for each
offense. A complaint for violation seeking the imposition of a fine may be
filed with any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2002-4, passed 7-10-02)
CHAPTER 37:  NEPOTISM IN EMPLOYMENT AND CONTRACTING
Section
   
37.01   Minimum requirements
   
37.02   More stringent or detailed provisions regarding nepotism
   
37.03   Non-compliance
§ 37.01  MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   The town’s Nepotism Policy and Contracting with the Town by Certain
Relatives Policy are established hereby and do, and at all times hereafter
shall, comply with all then applicable requirements of Indiana law as to those
matters; including but not limited to the provisions of IC 36-1-20.2 and 36-1-
21; which requirements and provisions are a part hereof as if fully set out,
and are hereby incorporated, herein. Further, two copies of IC 36-1-20.2 and IC
36-1-21, and as they are hereafter supplemented or amended, are and shall
continuously be maintained on file in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer
for public inspection as may be required by IC 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-6-12)
§ 37.02  MORE STRINGENT OR DETAILED PROVISIONS REGARDING NEPOTISM.
   Anti-nepotism provisions which are more stringent or detailed than the
provisions of state law may be adopted and implemented by the town except as
otherwise prohibited by applicable authority.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-6-12)
§ 37.03  NON-COMPLIANCE.
   Failure to comply with the requirements and provisions of this chapter may
result in remedial and/or disciplinary action, as allowed by law.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed 6-6-12)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   PUBLIC UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   ELECTRIC SERVICE
      
52.   WATER SERVICE
      
53.   SEWER SERVICE
      
54.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
CHAPTER 50:  PUBLIC UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
   
50.01   Town Council to employ Superintendents and their subordinates
   
50.02   Standards of utility service
   
50.03   Premises of utilities to be kept clean and in good repair
   
50.04   Property owner required to connect to town's sewer and water lines
Cross-reference:
   Identity theft prevention policy, see §
33.50
§ 50.01  TOWN COUNCIL TO EMPLOY SUPERINTENDENTS AND THEIR SUBORDINATES.
   (A)   The Town Council shall employ or appoint in the manner authorized by
law a Superintendent or Superintendents of the electric, water, and sewage
utilities who shall have general supervision of said utilities.
   (B)   The Town Council shall employ all persons working in the operation of
said utilities, unless they authorize the Superintendent or Superintendents of
the utilities to do so by a resolution.
('83 Code, Ch. IV)
§ 50.02  STANDARDS OF UTILITY SERVICE.
   Efficient, economical, and, as nearly as possible, uninterrupted service
shall be the first aim of the Departments at all times.  In order to secure
such service, they shall endeavor to keep all machinery, electric lines, and
equipment in good repair and working condition.
('83 Code, Ch. IV)
§ 50.03  PREMISES OF UTILITIES TO  BE KEPT CLEAN AND IN GOOD REPAIR.
   The Superintendents of the utilities shall see that the premises of the
utilities are kept in good repair and in a clean and neat condition.
('83 Code, Ch. IV)
§ 50.04  PROPERTY OWNER REQUIRED TO CONNECT TO TOWN'S SEWER AND WATER LINES.
   (A)   When the Town Council orders the permanent improvement of any street
or part of street in the town in which there is located any sanitary sewer or
water main, the owner or owners of each lot or parcel of land abutting upon
such street or part of street so ordered to be improved shall be required to
make connection with the sanitary sewer and water main before the commencement
of the permanent improvement thereof.
   (B)   Any person, whether property owner or not, shall hereafter use SDR-35
or better pipe on all new or replacement pipe lines to be connected into the
town's sewage system, and all work done on the lines shall be under inspection
and approval of the person in charge of the Sewer and Drainage Department of
the town.
('83 Code, § 3-5)
CHAPTER 51:  ELECTRIC SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Regulations furnished upon application
   
51.02   Application required
   
51.03   Location of applicant
   
51.04   List of equipment to be provided upon application
   
51.05   Service wires to be accessible
   
51.06   Wiring requirements; meter installation
   
51.07   Right of access; consumer to pay cost of repairs
   
51.08   Interruptions of service
   
51.09   Additions to equipment prohibited
   
51.10   Town not liable for damages which result from consumer's wiring or
appliances
   
51.11   Consumer to notify town in case of defect or accident
   
51.12   Fluctuations and disturbances in system prohibited
   
51.13   Motor requirements
   
51.14   Discontinuance of service
   
51.15   Electric utility removed from jurisdiction of Indiana Utility
Regulatory Commission
Rates and Charges
   
51.24   Electric connection charges
   
51.25   Residential service rates
   
51.26   Commercial service rates
   
51.27   Power service rates
   
51.28   Municipal service rates
   
51.29   Municipal street lighting service
   
51.30   Rates for security lighting
   
51.31   Rate adjustment
   
51.32   Fuel cost adjustment
   
51.33   Billing
   
51.34   Service re- establishment charge
   
51.35   Bad check charge
   
51.36   Meter deposit
Cross Reference:
   Rate Stabilization Fund, §
33.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01  REGULATIONS FURNISHED UPON APPLICATION.
   A copy of the rates, rules, and regulations will be furnished upon
application at the Town Clerk-Treasurer's office.
('83 Code, § 4-1 I.B.)
§ 51.02  APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   A written application will be required from each consumer.  This
application, when accepted by the town, constitutes the contract between the
town and the consumer.  A copy of the application will be furnished the
consumer upon request.
('83 Code, § 4-1 I.C.)
§ 51.03  LOCATION OF APPLICANT.
   Upon receipt of an application for current, the town will at once ascertain
the location of the premises upon which service is requested as related to the
location of the town's lines, and, if it is impossible to furnish service
without an extension, the applicant will be notified and the terms upon which
service can be rendered to him will be stated.
('83 Code, § 4-1 I.D.)
§ 51.04  LIST OF EQUIPMENT TO BE PROVIDED UPON APPLICATION.
   Before wiring his house or purchasing any electrical equipment, the consumer
should present to the town, in writing, a list of devices which are to be
attached to the town's lines and give the location of his buildings, and the
town will advise the style, voltage and description of the current it will
furnish.
('83 Code, § 4-1 I.E.)
§ 51.05  SERVICE WIRES TO BE ACCESSIBLE.
   Consumers are required to bring out their service wires to be readily
accessible to the town's lines and in such manner that all wiring furnished by
the town will be in plain view from the street or alley.  The inside wiring
must extend 18 inches beyond the building for the town to attach its wires
thereto.
('83 Code, § 4-1 I.F.)
§ 51.06  WIRING REQUIREMENTS; METER INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The consumer shall provide, free of expense to the town, a suitable
place for the meter or meters or other appliances.
   (B)   All service and entrance wires must be enclosed in iron conduit from
point of entrance to building to the meter, and must be equipped with an
entrance fuse and switch to protect the meter and other equipment in the
building, same to be enclosed in a steel cabinet box of approved pattern and
conduit and box to be grounded with not less than No. 10 copper wire.
   (C)   No service wire shall be smaller than No. 10B. & S. gauge from point
of entrance to meter.
   (D)   All meters must be installed in the following manner:  Meter must be
located outside of building or in such place where it can be read without
having to keep a key to get to it.  This must be done unless circumstances make
it impossible to do otherwise.  All meters must be not more than seven feet
above the floor and not less than five feet above the floor.
('83 Code, § 4-1 I.G.)
   (E)   The town will own, furnish, and maintain the meter or meters and the
consumer must have loops left in the wiring suitable for their connection.
   (F)   All wiring should be inspected and approved by a competent electric
inspector before application is made to have the current turned on.  This is
necessary for the protection of the consumer, as the town is not responsible
for any defect of the wiring or devices on the consumer's premises.
   (G)   Every job of wiring or repairs involving a change should also be
inspected and a certificate obtained therefor.
('83 Code, § 4-1 I.H.)
§ 51.07  RIGHT OF ACCESS; CONSUMER TO PAY COST OF REPAIRS.
   (A)   Right of access.  The authorized agents or employees of the town shall
have free access at all reasonable hours to the premises of the consumer for
the purpose of installing, testing, reading, replacing, removing or disposing
of meters or any property of the town situated thereon.
   (B)   Consumer to pay cost of repairs.  In the event of any loss or damage
to the property of the town caused or arising from negligence of, or misuse by,
the consumer or other unauthorized parties, the cost of the necessary repairs
or replacement shall be paid by the consumer to the town.
('83 Code, § 4-1 I.I.)
§ 51.08  INTERRUPTIONS OF SERVICE.
   The town will use reasonable diligence in providing a regular and
uninterrupted supply of current, but in the event the supply of current should
be interrupted or fail by reason of accident, strike, legal process, state or
municipal interference, extraordinary repairs, or for any other cause, the town
shall not be held liable for damages because of such interruption or failure.
('83 Code, § 4-1 I.J.)
§ 51.09  ADDITIONS TO EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED.
   The service connection transformers, meters, and appliances supplied by the
town for each consumer have definite capacity, and to prevent damage thereto,
no additions to the equipment of the consumer will be allowed except by consent
of the town.
('83 Code, § 4-1 I.K.)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.10  TOWN NOT LIABLE FOR DAMAGES WHICH RESULT FROM CONSUMER'S WIRING OR
APPLIANCES.
   The town shall not be liable to the consumer for any loss, injury, or damage
which may result from the wiring or appliances of the consumer, or from the use
of the service of the town or from the connection of town's wires with
consumer's wires and appliances.
('83 Code, § 4-1 I.L.)
§ 51.11  CONSUMER TO NOTIFY TOWN IN CASE OF DEFECT OR ACCIDENT.
   The consumer should notify the town promptly of any defect in service or any
trouble or accident to the electric supply.
('83 Code, § 4-1 I.M.)
§ 51.12  FLUCTUATIONS AND DISTURBANCES IN SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Electric current must not be used in such manner as to cause
unprovided fluctuations or disturbances in the town's distributing system.
   (B)   In case of violation of this rule, service may be discontinued.
('83 Code, § 4-1 I.N.)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.13  MOTOR REQUIREMENTS.
   Motors frequently started or motors arranged for automatic control must be
of a type to give maximum starting torque with the minimum current.
('83 Code, § 4-1 I.O.)
§ 51.14  DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   The town reserves the right to discontinue its current service without
notice in case the consumer is in arrears in the payment of the town bills, or
fails to comply with the rules or regulations herein provided.
('83 Code, § 4-1 I.A.)
§ 51.15  ELECTRIC UTILITY REMOVED FROM JURISDICTION OF INDIANA UTILITY
REGULATORY COMMISSION.
   The municipally owned electric utility is hereby removed from the
jurisdiction of the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission for the approval of
rates and charges and of the issuance of stocks, bonds, notes, or other
evidences of indebtedness.
(Ord. 1995-13, passed 7-24-95)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.24  ELECTRIC CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   Unless waived or modified by the Clerk-Treasurer's Office for good
cause shown, the following deposits shall be paid at the Clerk-Treasurer's
Office prior to the furnishing of electric service. Further, any such waiver
shall be reported at the next public Council meeting, and noted in the record
of the proceedings of that meeting.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any current charge for the meter or lines already in
place, residential customers shall pay a one time $300 electric connection
charge.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any current charge for the meter or lines already in
place, commercial customers:
      (1)   Shall pay the one time $300 electric connection charge, and
      (2)   Shall pay the cost of connection of service subject to a possible
refund. The procedure for commercial customers in determining the cost of
connection, including the refund if any, shall be as follows:
         (a)   The total estimated cost of the connection shall include the
overhead and/or underground primary and/or secondary extension plus the
service, transformers, and metering.
         (b)   This total estimated cost will be divided by 18 months and this
will be the minimum monthly bill (plus the service charge) for the commercial
customer for this 18- month period. This 18-month period shall begin when
electrical service is successfully provided.
         (c)   For each commercial customer connected to the extension within a
period of three years from the completion of the extension, the town will
refund to the initial commercial customer in proportion to their respective
contribution to the cost of the extension, an amount based on the cost to serve
the additional commercial customer and their revenue. The three-year period
shall start at the beginning of the 18-month period for the initial commercial
customer. Any subsequent commercial customers must have permanent service
installed within the three year period for the revenue to be used in
calculation for refund.
         (d)   The refund, if any, shall be made in accordance with the
following procedure:
            1.   As each commercial customer is added, the additional cost to
serve that customer will be calculated. That additional cost will be divided by
18 for a minimum monthly billing for that customer.
            2.   The minimum monthly bill shall have the monthly service charge
added to it, but in no case will the monthly service charge be used to
calculate a refund.
            3.   After 18 months, the accumulated excess between the revenue
and the cost for this commercial customer (if an excess exists) will be
refunded to the initial commercial customers outlined above. However, the
accumulated excess beyond the three-year period will not be used for the
refund.
            4.   The maximum amount to be refunded to the initial commercial
customer shall not exceed the cost (minimum monthly bills) less the actual
usage amount accumulated over the 18-month period.
(Ord. 2004-9, passed 9-13-04)
§ 51.25  RESIDENTIAL SERVICE RATES.
   The following shall be residential service rates for the Town of Warren.
   (A)   To whom available.  This service shall be available to residential
customers for general service who are located in the utility's service area.
   (B)   Character of service.  Service shall be alternating current, 60-cycle,
single-phase, at a voltage of approximately 120 volts two-wire, or 120/240
volts three-wire.
   (C)   Rates.
      Customer charge:  $5.86 per month for each dwelling unit.
      Energy charge:  $.0334 per kWh for all kWh.
   (D)   Minimum payment.  The customer's minimum monthly payment under this
rate shall be the customer charge plus the energy charge for the month.
   (E)   Rate adjustment.  See §
51.31.
   (F)   Fuel cost adjustment.  See §
51.32.
('83 Code, § 4-1 II.)
§ 51.26  COMMERCIAL SERVICE RATES.
   The following shall be commercial service rates for the Town of Warren.
   (A)   To whom available.  This service shall be available to nonresidential
and commercial customers who are located in the utility's service area.
   (B)   Character of service.  Service shall be alternating current, 60-cycle,
single- or three-phase service supplied through a single set of service wires
to a single meter location.  The service voltage shall be either 120/240 volt
single-phase, three-wire or 240-volt, three- phase, three-wire, or such other
standard secondary voltage as the utility may, at its option, make available.
   (C)   Rates.  The rate for electrical energy supplied hereunder shall be as
follows:
      (1)   For single-phase service:
         (a)   Customer charge:  $5.86 per month per service location or
establishment.
         (b)   Energy charge:  $.0495 per kWh for all kWh.
      (2)   For three-phase service:
         (a)   Customer charge:  $21.00 per month per service location or
establishment.
         (b)   Energy charge:  $.0449 per kWh for all kWh.
   (D)   Minimum payment.  The minimum payment for service shall be the
customer charge plus the energy charge for the month.
   (E)   Rate adjustment.  See §
51.31.
   (F)   Fuel cost adjustment.  See §
51.32.
('83 Code, § 4-1 II.)
§ 51.27  POWER SERVICE RATES.
   The following shall be power service rates for the Town of Warren.
   (A)   To whom available. 
      (1)   This service shall be available for lighting and/or power service
for customers who are located in the utility's service area.
      (2)   This rate is applicable to any customer whose light and/or power
service requirements are such as to require a connected transformer capacity in
exceed of 50 kVA.  At the option of the utility, any customer with power
service having energy use of less than 200 kWhrs per kW of maximum billing load
may be placed on this rate.
   (B)   Character of service. 
      (1)   Service shall be alternating current, 60-cycle,  three-phase 
service  supplied through a single set of service wires to a single meter
location. The service voltage shall be 240- volt three-phase, three-wire, or
such other standard secondary voltage as the utility may, at its option, make
available.
      (2)   Any applicant requiring service differing from that to be supplied
as herein provided shall provide proper converting, transforming, regulating,
or other equipment upon his own premises and at his own expense.
   (C)   Rates.  The rates for electrical energy supplied hereunder shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Maximum load charge:  $7.90 per kW of billing maximum load for the
month.
      (2)   Energy charge:  $.0134 cents per kWh for all kWh.
   (D)   Rate adjustment.  See §
51.31.
   (E)   Fuel cost adjustment.  See §
51.32.
   (F)   Monthly minimum payment.  The minimum monthly charge shall b the
maximum load charge plus the energy charge for the month.
   (G)   Measurement of maximum load and energy.
      (1)   The maximum load shall be measured by suitable recording
instruments provided by the utility, and in any month the maximum load
expressed in kilowatts shall be the average number of kilowatts in the recorded
15-minute interval in such month during which the energy metered is greater
than in any other such 15-minute interval in such month.
      (2)   Energy shall be measured by suitable integrating instruments
provided by the utility.
   (H)   Billing maximum load.  The billing maximum load for any month shall be
the greater of the maximum load for the month, or 60% of the highest monthly
maximum load during the preceding 12 months.
   (I)   Delivery voltage.  Where the utility elects to meter the customer's
service at the utility's primary voltage, the measured maximum load and energy
will be multiplied by 0.98.
   (J)  Power factor.  The rate set forth in this tariff is  based on  upon the
maintenance by the customer of
an average power factor of 85% for each month, as shown by integrating
instruments.  When the average monthly power factor is above or below 85%, the
capacity and energy charges will be multiplied by the following constants:
      EFFECTIVE MONTHLY
   Power Factor         Constant
   1.00                .951
     .95                .965
     .90                .981
     .85              1.000
     .80              1.023
     .75              1.050
     .70              1.0835
     .65              1.1255
     .60              1.1785
     .55              1.2455
     .50                1.3335
Constants for other than the effective power factors given in the foregoing
table will be determined from the same formula used to determine the given
constants.  Where suitable integrating instruments are not available to
determine power factor, an 85% power factor will be assumed.
('83 Code, § 4-1 II.)
§ 51.28  MUNICIPAL SERVICE RATES.
   The following shall be municipal service rates for the Town of Warren.
   (A)   To whom available.  This service shall be available to the town for
municipal services such as the water utility, the sewage works, the Town Hall,
fire station, parks, and the like.
   (B)   Character of service.  Electric energy supplied hereunder shall be
alternating current, 60-cycle, at any standard single-phase or poly- phase
voltage supplied by the utility in the locality for which service is required.
   (C)   Rates.  The rate for municipal service shall be $.0381 per kWh for all
kWh.
   (D)   Rate adjustment.  See §
51.31.
   (E)   Fuel cost adjustment.  See §
51.32.
('83 Code, § 4-1 II.)
§ 51.29  MUNICIPAL STREET LIGHTING SERVICE.
   The following shall be municipal street lighting service rates for the Town
of Warren.
   (A)   To whom available.  This service shall be available to the town for
municipal street lighting service.
   (B)   Character of service.  The utility shall install, operate and
maintain, at its expense, all street lighting equipment and appurtenances.
   (C)   Rate.  The rate for street lighting service shall be based on the then
current municipal service rates established pursuant to §
51.28 of this chapter.
('83 Code, § 4-1 II.)  (Am. Ord. 1996-3, passed 2-26-96)
§ 51.30  RATES FOR SECURITY LIGHTING.
   The following shall be rates for security lighting in the Town of Warren.
   (A)   To whom available.  This service shall be available for dusk to dawn
outdoor lighting service for lighting entrances, driveways, and other private
areas to customers who are located on the utility's electric supply lines
suitable and adequate for supplying the service requested.
   (B)   Character of service.  The utility will install, own, and maintain a
bracketmounted suburban-type lighting fixture, including photoelectric control.
   (C)   Rate per month. 
      (1)   Where the lighting fixture can be installed on an existing
distribution-type wood pole or other supporting device and can be served from
existing secondary facilities, with not more than one span of secondary, the
rate shall be:
         (a)   For 175-watt mercury vapor lamps, $6.23 per light.
         (b)   For 400-watt mercury vapor lamps, $8.56 per light.
      (2)   If additional facilities are required to furnish service hereunder,
the utility will install, operate, and maintain such facilities. The labor,
materials,  and  overhead  cost  of  installation of such additional facilities
and maintenance expenses thereof shall be at the customer's expense.
   (D)   Term of service.  Any customer requesting service under this rate
shall make written application for such service for an initial period of one
year, and such service shall continue from year to year thereafter unless
cancelled by either party.
   (E)   Terms and conditions of service. 
      (1)   The utility shall adjust the automatic control on each installation
to provide lighting service from dusk to dawn each night.  Lamp replacements
and repairs will be made within a reasonable period of time, during regular
working hours, after customer's notification of the need for such maintenance.
      (2)   The facilities installed by the utility shall remain the property
of the utility and may be removed by the utility if service is discontinued.
('83 Code, § 4-1 II.)
§ 51.31  RATE ADJUSTMENT.
   The rate adjustment shall be on the basis of a Purchased Power Cost
Adjustment Tracking Factor, occasioned solely by changes in the cost of
purchased power in accordance with the order of the Indiana Regulatory
Commission, approved December 17, 1976 in Cause No. 34614.  The rate adjustment
applicable to the rate schedules listed in §§
51.25 through
51.28 shall be in accordance with an annual (calendar year) tracker, which
tracker shall be adjusted on the books of the town each February 1, as computed
by the town's then current electric rate consultant and approved by the Town
Council.
('83 Code, § 4-1 II.)  (Am. Ord. 1996-3, passed 2-26-96)
§ 51.32  FUEL COST ADJUSTMENT.
   The fuel cost adjustment in dollars per kilowatt hour, as it applies to §§
51.25 through
51.28, has been incorporated in the rate adjustment to be made pursuant to §
51.31 of this chapter.
('83 Code, § 4-1 II.)  (Am. Ord. 1996-3, passed 2-26-96)
§ 51.33  BILLING.
   All bills to customers of the electric utility shall be rendered and due
monthly.  If not paid by the fifteenth day following the date of the bill,
there shall be added 10% of the first $3 of the bill plus 3% of the amount of
the bill in excess of $3.  Remittances sent by mail on or previous to the
fifteenth day as evidenced by the U.S. Post Office mark on the envelope in
which they are received will be accepted as within the time limit.  When the
fifteenth day is a Sunday or other legal holiday, the first business day
thereafter shall be considered within the time limit. Bills are payable at the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer in the Town Hall building.
('83 Code, § 4-1 II.)
§ 51.34  SERVICE RE-ESTABLISHMENT CHARGE.
   When disconnect or reconnect of electric service is necessary for nonpayment
of bill, or when for any reason other than the fault of the electric utility a
disconnect or reconnect is required by any one customer more often than once in
a 12-month period, a charge of $25 will be made by the electric utility to
offset a part of the cost.
('83 Code, § 4-1 II.)  (Am. Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-14-94)
§ 51.35  BAD CHECK CHARGE.
   A bad check charge of $20 will be added to the total amount due.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-14-94)
§ 51.36  METER DEPOSIT.
   A $75 meter deposit shall be paid to the town to be held without interest in
the account of the applicant as a part of each electric service connection turn
on application, and each application for service reestablishment pursuant to §
51.34, submitted to the town. Upon a termination of electric service to that
applicant, that deposit shall be applied against that  connection's account
obligations to the electric utility, with any then remaining balance to be
refunded to that applicant.
(Ord. 1996-3, passed 2-26-96)
CHAPTER 52:  WATER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Application for water use
   
52.02   Meter to be maintained; damage of meter prohibited
   
52.03   Alteration of meter hookup prohibited
   
52.04   Removing water meter lid prohibited; right of access to meter
   
52.05   Special water use permits
   
52.06   Water waste prohibited; pipes to be kept in good condition
   
52.07   Pipe standards; installation of meter
   
52.08   Water meter not to be turned on without permit
   
52.09   Meters to be tested
   
52.10   Tampering with stop-cock or meter boxes prohibited
   
52.11   Opening of hydrants prohibited
   
52.12   Refilling sprinkler tanks or swimming pools without permission
prohibited
   
52.13   Water main taps prohibited
Cross Connection Control
   
52.25   Definition
   
52.26   Cross connections prohibited
   
52.27   Certain interconnections prohibited
   
52.28   Inspections of potential cross connections required
   
52.29   Right of entry; information to be furnished
   
52.30   Discontinuance of water service
   
52.31   Emergency discontinuance
   
52.32   Backflow preventer required
   
52.33   Subchapter to be supplementary
Rates and Charges
   
52.50   Service rates and charges
   
52.51   Vacation rate
   
52.52   Collection and deferred payments charge
   
52.53   Nonrecurring charges
   
52.54   Capital project water main extension fees and fire protection charges
for 1997 project customers
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01  APPLICATION FOR WATER USE.
   Application for the use of water shall be made in writing by the owner of
the property, and the owner of the property shall be held responsible for all
bills for the use of water.  The application shall be made at the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer, giving the location of the premises to be supplied, the name
of the persons who will use the water, and for what purpose the water is to be
used.
('83 Code, § 4-2 I.A.)
§ 52.02  METER TO BE MAINTAINED; DAMAGE OF METER PROHIBITED.
   Wherever the meter is set on the customer's premises, the customer shall be
required to keep the surroundings around the meter clean, dry, and easy of
access, and to protect same from freezing.  Any or all damages done to the
meter by the owner, agent, or occupant while the meter is in service, or by hot
water being poured on or forced back through the meter, will be charged to the
account of the metered services and must be paid on or before the next payment
of water rents, or all further services will be withheld until all costs and
water rents are paid.
('83 Code, § 4-2 I.B.)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.03  ALTERATION OF METER HOOKUP PROHIBITED.
   No connection or alteration shall be made leading to the water meter,
whereby water may be released without passing through the meter.  Should it
become necessary, through the process of making repairs or alterations in the
pipeline to which the meter is attached, that the meter be removed, an
application shall be made to the Superintendent for such removal, and water
shall not be turned into same again until after proper inspection is made by
the Superintendent or his authorized agent, and the work approved.
(‘83 Code, § 4-2-I.C.)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.04  REMOVING WATER METER LID PROHIBITED; RIGHT OF ACCESS TO METER.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall remove or attempt to remove the lid or
covering of any water meter.
   (B)   It is expressly understood and agreed that the authorized agent of the
town shall at all reasonable hours have access to any meter.
('83 Code, § 4-2 I.D.)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.05  SPECIAL WATER USE PERMITS.
   The town will issue special permits for the use of water for building
purposes, or for such other special or transient uses as it may deem expedient,
when the same shall not conflict with the prescribed rules of the town.
('83 Code, § 4-2 I.E.)
§ 52.06  WATER WASTE PROHIBITED; PIPES TO BE KEPT IN GOOD CONDITION.
   (A)   There shall be no waste of water to prevent freezing or for any other
purpose.
   (B)   Water will not be furnished where there are leaky pipes or fixtures. 
When such conditions are found the supply will be shut off until repairs are
made.  Consumers shall keep their own service pipes in repair and protect them
from freezing at their own expense and must prevent all unnecessary waste of
water, or use of water.
('83 Code, § 4-2 I.F.)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.07  PIPE STANDARDS; INSTALLATION OF METER.
   (A)   Pipe standards.  All service pipes must be copper pipe from the main
to the meter and shall be installed at the expense of the customer from the
main.  All service pipes from the main to the meter shall be inspected by the
Superintendent or his authorized agent.
   (B)   Installation of meter.
      (1)   All meters shall be installed on the lawn on the town property
where possible to do so.  The town will install at its own expense the meter
box and set the meter, but it is expressly understood that the customer shall
at his own expense make all the connections necessary for the installation of
the meters including tapping of the main.
('83 Code, § 4-2 I.G.)
      (2)   In setting a meter, red or white lead must in no case be used in
its connections or between it and the main.  The service must be blown out
before the meter is set and it must be set in a box to prevent freezing. 
Meters must be set in concrete or brick well on the town property when possible
to do so.  ('83 Code, § 4-2 I.J.)
§ 52.08  WATER METER NOT TO BE TURNED ON WITHOUT PERMIT.
   No person or entity shall, without written authority from the
Superintendent, turn on the water to any service.  This rule does not prevent
plumbers from testing their work, but they must not in any case leave the water
turned on without a special permit from the Superintendent.
('83 Code, § 4-2 I.H.)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.09  METERS TO BE TESTED.
   All meters shall be tested before being placed in service and no meter shall
be so placed that shall not have tested at least 98% accurate.  A record of
these tests shall be kept, and each meter in service shall be subject to a bi-
annual test at which times such meter shall be thoroughly cleaned, inspected,
and repaired before being placed in service.  In case any meter should be
questioned as to accuracy by the customer, that meter shall be given a special
test.  Should such meter not prove to be 98% accurate, then adjustment of the
amount shall be made dating from the previous settlement and credit given for
the amount over-registered.
('83 Code, § 4-2 I.I.)
§ 52.10  TAMPERING WITH STOP-COCK OR METER BOXES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall place or deposit dirt or other material in any stop-cock
boxes or meter boxes, or turn any public or private stop-cock or commit any act
tending to obstruct the use thereof.
('83 Code, § 4-2 I.K.)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.11  OPENING OF HYDRANTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful, except in time of fire, to draw or cause the water to
be removed from any public or private hydrant, unless metered, or to open any
valve on the aforesaid hydrant, or fire protection openings except in case of
fire.  This is not intended to prevent the town employees from using hydrants
to flush sewers.
('83 Code, § 4-2 I.L.)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.12  REFILLING SPRINKLER TANKS OR SWIMMING POOLS WITHOUT PERMISSION
PROHIBITED.
   No entities having sprinkling systems or having charge of swimming pools
shall refill their tanks or swimming pools until after notifying the
Superintendent of the water utility and obtaining consent to do so.
('83 Code, § 4-2 I.M.)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.13  WATER MAIN TAPS PROHIBITED.
   No person or persons except town employees shall tap water mains within the
town.
('83 Code, § 3-8 V.)
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 52.25  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CROSS CONNECTION.  Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate systems,  one of which  contains potable water  from the
town's  water system, and  the other, water from a private source, water of
unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases, or chemicals, whereby there
may be a flow from one system to the other, the direction of flow depending on
the pressure differential between the two systems.
(Ord. 1987-2, passed 5-12-87)
§ 52.26  CROSS CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No entity shall establish or maintain, or permit to be established or
maintained, any cross connection.
(Ord. 1987-2, passed 5-12-87)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.27  CERTAIN INTERCONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a water
supply other than the regular town's public water supply may enter the supply
or the town distribution system unless such other supply and the method of
connection and use of such other supply is approved by the Town's Council and
by the Environmental Management Board under Rule 320 IAC 3-9.
(Ord. 1987-2, passed 5-12-87)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.28  INSPECTIONS OF POTENTIAL CROSS CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of the town to cause inspections to be made from time
to time of all property served by the public water system, where cross
connections and/or interconnections of any type with the public water system is
deemed possible.
(Ord. 1987-2, passed 5-12-87)
§ 52.29  RIGHT OF ENTRY; INFORMATION TO BE FURNISHED.
   (A)   Upon presentation of credentials, the town representative shall have
the right to request entry at  any reasonable time to examine any property
served by a connection to the town's public water system for cross connections
or interconnections.
   (B)   On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any property so served
shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information in detail
regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The refusal of access
or refusal of requested pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the
presence of cross connections or interconnections in violation of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1987-2, passed 5-12-87)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.30  DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE.
   The town's water utility shall discontinue water service to any property
wherein any connection in violation of this subchapter exists, and shall take
such other precautionary measures deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of
contamination of the public water system.  Water service shall be discontinued
only after reasonable notice is served on the owner, lessee, or occupants of
the property or premises where a violation is found or suspected to exist.
Water service to such property shall not be restored until the connection in
violation of this subchapter has been eliminated.
(Ord. 1987-2, passed 5-12-87)
§ 52.31  EMERGENCY DISCONTINUANCE.
   If it is deemed by the town that a connection in violation of this
subchapter or any emergency situation endangers public health, safety, or
welfare and requires immediate action, and a written finding to that effect is
filed with the Town Clerk- Treasurer and delivered to the consumer's premises,
service may be immediately discontinued.  The consumer shall have an
opportunity to a hearing within ten days of such emergency discontinuance.
(Ord. 1987-2, passed 5-12-87)
§ 52.32  BACKFLOW PREVENTER REQUIRED.
   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals, mortuaries,
wastewater treatment plants, and laboratories, and all other hazardous users
interconnected in any way at any point directly, indirectly, or remotely with
the town municipal water system shall install and maintain a reduced-pressure
principal backflow preventer in the main water line serving each building on
the premises.  The backflow preventer must be installed in an easily accessible
and inspectable location not subject to flooding or freezing.
(Ord. 1987-2, passed 5-12-87)
§ 52.33  SUBCHAPTER TO BE SUPPLEMENTARY.
   This subchapter does not supersede the State Uniform Plumbing Code or any
other provision of this town code, but is supplementary to them.
(Ord. 1987-2, passed 5-12-87)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.50  SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES.
   Rates and charges for the use of and service rendered by the waterworks
system of the town, based upon water availability and/or the receipt of water
supplied by that waterworks shall be as follows:
   (A)   Metered rates.
 
Metered Rates Per Monthly Billing Period Per 1,000 Gallons
First 3,333 gallons                      $ 6.44
Next 10,000 gallons                      5.38
Next 10,000 gallons                      3.78
Over 23,333 gallons                      2.67
 
   (B)   Minimum charge.  Each user shall pay a minimum charge in accordance
with the following applicable size of meter installed for which the user will
be entitled to the appropriate quantity of water computed in accordance with
the above schedule of rates.
 
Size of Meter     Minimum Monthly Rate
5/8- to 3/4- inch $  21.45
1-inch            32.11
2-inch            106.99
3-inch            249.63
4-inch            769.89
 
   (C)   Hydrants.
 
                  Per Annum
Municipal hydrants $460.12
Private hydrants   460.12
 
   (D)   Sprinkler systems.
 
Connection Size Per Annum
2-inch          $    117.98
3-inch          216.29
4-inch          393.25
6-inch          884.82
8-inch          1,573.00
 
   (E)   The rates and charges fixed above shall apply to individual customers;
they shall not be construed to permit multiple customers being served through
one meter, except as expressly authorized in advance in writing by the Town
Council.
('83 Code, § 4-2 II.)  (Ord. 1987-3, passed 6-23-87; Am. Ord. 1992-2, passed 5-
11-92; Am. Ord. 1994-5, passed 6-21-94; Am. Ord. 2004-12, passed 10-25-04; Am.
Ord. 2015-4, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 52.51  VACATION RATE.
   The minimum charge per month or, if requested by consumer, service will be
reconnected and disconnected at the rate as set forth in §
52.53.
('83 Code, § 4-2 II.)  (Ord. 1987-3, passed 6-23-87; Am. Ord. 1992-2, passed 5-
11-92)
§ 52.52  COLLECTION AND DEFERRED PAYMENTS CHARGE.
   (A)   All bills for water service not paid within 15 days from the due date
thereon, as stated in such bills, shall be subject to the collection or
deferred payment charge of 10% on the first $3 and 3% on the excess over $3. 
Remittances sent by mail on or previous to the fifteenth day as evidenced by
the U.S. post office mark on the envelope in which they are received will be
accepted as within the time limit.  When the fifteenth day is a Sunday or other
legal holiday, the first business day thereafter shall be considered within the
time limit.  If not paid within 15 days of the due date, the water shall be
turned off and not turned on again until all bills and penalties have been
paid.  Before water is turned on again the delinquent party shall pay the town
the amount of $15 for re-establishment of service, which amount shall be
credited to the water utility fund.
   (B)   If any meter stops registering, the consumer will be charged the
average of previous usage for a comparable period.
('83 Code, § 4-2 II.)  (Ord. 1987-3, passed 6-23-87; Am. Ord. 1992-2, passed 5-
11-92)
§ 52.53  NONRECURRING CHARGES.
   (A)   The following shall be considered nonrecurring charges.
      (1)   Taps.  A tap charge shall be collected from each customer, prior to
connection to the water system, in an amount sufficient to reimburse the town
for the labor and materials necessary for tapping the main and installation of
service from the main to the curb stop and the cost of furnishing and
installing a suitable water meter.
 
5/8-inch to 3/4-inch meters The charge for this installation shall be $750.
1-inch or larger meters     The charge for this service shall be the labor and
                            material but in no event shall be less than $750.
 
      (2)   Deposits.  Unless waived or modified by the Clerk- Treasurer's
office for good cause shown, the following deposits shall be paid at the Clerk-
Treasurer's office prior to the furnishing of water through the customer's
meter. Further, any such waiver shall be reported to the next public Council
meeting, and noted in the record of the proceedings of that meeting.
         (a)   Base deposits.
            Temporary construction site      $75
            1-inch or larger meter         One months' estimated billing
            Smaller than 1-inch meter      $50
         (b)   Surcharge deposits.
            1.   Unless it is established to the reasonable satisfaction of the
Clerk-Treasurer's office that the person responsible for a meter's billing (the
customer) includes the owner of the premises to be served as shown in the
records of the Huntington County Courthouse, the required customer deposit
shall be surcharged in an amount equal to two times the base deposit shown
above in this division (2).
            2.   If the person responsible for a meter's billings (the
customer) has a current unpaid, or within two years has had a substantial and
either recurring or long-standing delinquent, account balance with the town,
the required customer deposit shall be surcharged in an amount equal to two
times the otherwise applicable meter deposit, except that the deposit shall in
no event aggregate more than four times the otherwise applicable base deposit
shown above in this division (2).
            3.   If the final customer billing is not paid in full by its due
date, the customer's base, and any surcharge, deposit shall be forfeit to the
town's water utility and be applied first against the customer's then unpaid
account balance, with any remainder to be deposited in the general funds of the
utility.
      (3)   Service call.
         Thawing pipes         First time free; second time in any one 12-month
period, $37.50
         Other services         Cost, but not less than $37.50
      (4)   Reconnect/disconne ct.  By town employee (paid before service
performed)
         Regular hours         $ 15.00   
         Overtime hours      37.50
      (5)   Bad check, $ 15
      (6)   Meter tampering.
         First and second time
         (Each customer)      Town's cost of parts, labor, equipment and
overhead, plus town's estimate of cost of water used and not metered
         Third time         Same as above plus discontinuation of service
   (B)   The water meter shall be read at the conclusion of each approximate
monthly billing  period, conditions permitting, and when otherwise, billings
shall be based on estimated water usage.
('83 Code, § 4-2 II.)  (Ord. 1987-3, passed 6-23-87; Am. Ord. 1992-2, passed 5-
11-92; Am. Ord. 1996-9, passed 5- -96; Am. Ord. 1998-9, passed 7-27-98; Am.
Ord. 2005-13, passed 3-28-05)
§ 52.54  CAPITAL PROJECT WATER MAIN EXTENSION FEES AND FIRE PROTECTION CHARGES
FOR 1997 PROJECT CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   (1)   The town shall be subject to the same rates and fees, or to
similar fees, established in harmony with applicable law.
      (2)   All customers of the town's water utility under this Chapter 52 are
subject to the limitations and such other requirements of applicable
ordinances, rules, and/or regulations as Warren has in place at any time and
from time to time.
   (B)   Water main extension fees.  The following water main extension fees
are in addition to the tap charges provided/required by §
52.53.
      (1)   Initial water main extension fees assessed before July 1, 1998. On
or before July 1, 1998, each entity filing its written undertaking, containing
terms and provisions approved by Warren, to be a charter customer of Warren's
1997 State Road #5 North Water Utility Capital Improvement Project ("Project")
shall, upon acceptance of that entity as a charter customer by Warren, be
assessed and thereafter pay in accordance with this Chapter 52, a one time
Project water main extension fee for access to Project's potable water
distribution system, at the rate of $130.16 for each 1,000 gallons or part
thereof of "Authorized Average Monthly Utilization" (actual or protected by
Warren) for that entity per monthly billing period of the water utility, all to
be measured by metered water use as particularized elsewhere in this Code, with
a minimum water main extension fee of $651.00.
      (2)   Initial water main extension fees assessed after July 1, 1998.
Those charter customers will be making a timely, significant, and valuable
contribution to the area's economic health. They ought not be disadvantaged in
circumstances of later connections to the Project's potable water distribution
system. Therefore, it is the expressed intention, but not the contractual
commitment, of the town that appropriate access fees will be charged to those
entities subsequently tapping into the Project's potable water distribution
system, with the appropriateness of those fees being determined by comparison
to water main extension fees paid under (B)(1) above. Any surplus net revenue
so generated shall inure to the benefit of the town and all customers then
attached to that system. Therefore, one time Project water main extension fees
assessed to customers for access to that distribution system at any time after
July 1, 1998, and prior to May 1, 2013, shall be at the rate of 110% of that
$130.16 for each 1,000 gallons of Authorized Average Monthly Utilization
determined as set out in (B)(1) above plus a deferral surcharge determined at
the rate of 8% per year on that 110% figure (without compounding) from July 1,
1998, to the date of payment of the water main extension fee determined under
this provision (B)(2), with a minimum water main extension fee of $716.10.
      (3)   Supplemental water main extension fees. If, before May 1, 2013, the
actual metered average monthly utilization of any tap to the Project line under
(B)(1) or (B)(2) above:
         (a)   Exceed that tap's Authorized Average Monthly Usage for the
actual days in any water utility billing period of any 12 consecutive monthly
water utility billing periods by more than 10%, and
         (b)   Within 30 days of that tap's customer being notified of that
circumstance in writing, that excess is not demonstrated to the reasonable
satisfaction of the Town Council to be extraordinary and not likely to reoccur,
and then that tap shall be assessed and within 30 days shall pay a supplemental
water main extension fee as if the average of that excess Authorized Average
Monthly Usage for those twelve consecutive monthly water utility billing
periods was a new tap under (B)(2) above (except that the minimum supplemental
water main extension fee shall be $146.18, and the said tap shall thereafter
have an aggregate Authorized Average Monthly Usage equal to that so purchased
by the aggregate water main extension fees paid under these provisions of this
Code.
   To the extent, if any, that the Project's remaining available potable water
distribution capacity does not permit all or a portion of that additional
Authorized Average Monthly Usage, the town shall take such action as it
determines to be appropriate to limit that customer's flow to that amount which
has been purchased and is within the available capacity.
      (4)   Payment of water main extension fees . All initial Project water
main extension fees assessed under (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section shall be
paid prior to the installation (connection) of the tap.
      (5)   Non-payment of supplemental water main extension fees . The failure
to timely pay any supplemental water main extension fee so assessed shall be a
delinquency in the payment of rates and charges with appropriate penalties and
the consequences may include, but will not necessarily be limited to,
disconnection of the tap until such time as the tap customer's account,
together with all penalties and charges related to that account, are fully
current.
   (C)   Fire protection charges.  The per annum charge for each hydrant and
each sprinkler system served by that portion of the water utility which is a
part of, or an extension of, the Project shall be 1.52 times the per annum
charge as it then exists for a comparable hydrant or sprinkler system of this
water utility under §
52.53 of this Code or its successor section.
(Ord. 1998-4, passed 6-24-98; Am. Ord. 1998-19, passed 11-9-98; Am. Ord. 2003-
2, passed 8-25-03)
CHAPTER 53:  SEWER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Town authorization
   
53.02   Abbreviations and definitions
   
53.03   Depositing objectionable wastes on public and private property
   
53.04   Discharging into natural outlets prohibited
   
53.05   Privies, septic tanks, and other facilities
   
53.06   Suitable toilet facilities
   
53.07   Discharge of stormwater and other unpolluted drainage
   
53.08   Destroying or tampering with municipal utility system equipment
   
53.09   Right of entry for purposes of inspection
Private Sewage Disposal System
   
53.20   Connecting building sewer to private sewage disposal system
   
53.21   Connecting private sewage disposal system to public sewer
   
53.22   Private sewage disposal systems to be kept sanitary
   
53.23   Additional requirements
Building Sewers; Installations and Connections
   
53.35   Connection permit required
   
53.36   Fees for connection permits
   
53.37   Costs and expenses
   
53.38   Separate building sewer provided for every building
   
53.39   Use of old building sewers with new buildings
   
53.40   Pipe and joint specifications
   
53.41   Size and slope
   
53.42   Elevation of building of sewer; alignment
   
53.43   Artificial lifters
   
53.44   Excavations
   
53.45   Location of connection
   
53.46   Inspections; supervision of connections to public sewer
Use of Public Sewers
   
53.60   General provisions
   
53.61   Prohibited discharges
   
53.62   Pretreatment and user discharge control facilities
   
53.63   Reporting requirements
   
53.64   Compliance monitoring
   
53.65   Confidential information and publication of notice of noncompliance
   
53.66   Special agreements between town and industrial concerns
Rates and Charges
   
53.74   Deposits
   
53.75   Service fees
   
53.76   Service rates
   
53.77   Town subject to same fees
   
53.78   Wastewater surcharges
   
53.79   When payments due
   
53.80   Sewage Works Capital Reserve Account
   
53.81   Determination of nonresidential sewage service rates; rates of
dischargers
   
53.82   Charges also to be based on strength and character of discharges
   
53.83   Method of billing
   
53.84   Enforcement of regulations
   
53.98   Violations
 
   
53.99   Fines and penalties
Cross-reference:
   For Municipal Violations Bureau and prepayment of fines, see §
35.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01  TOWN AUTHORIZATION.
   The town has heretofore authorized the construction, maintenance, and
operation of works  for the collection, treatment and disposal of sewage, under
the provisions of Chapter 61 of the Acts of The General Assembly of the State
of Indiana for the year 1932 (Special Session), and the acts amendatory thereof
and supplemental thereto (reference Ordinance No. 65-6 adopted by the Town of
Warren on the 22nd day of November, 1965, separate from this Code).
('83 Code, § 4-3 I.) 
§ 53.02  ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Abbreviations.  The following abbreviations, when used in this
chapter, shall have these designated meanings:
BOD     Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CPOD    Carbonaceous Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CPR     Code of Federal Regulations
EPA     U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
FOG     Fats, Oil and Grease
gpd     gallons per day
IDEM    Indiana Department of Environmental Management
mg/l    milligrams per liter
NH 3 -N Ammonia - Nitrogen
NPDES   National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
POTW    Publicly Owned Treatment Works
RCRA    Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIC     Standard Industrial Classification
TSS     Total Suspended Solids
USC     United States Code
 
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended (i.e., 33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.)
      AMMONIA - NITROGEN or NH3-N. Shall mean the same as Ammonia Nitrogen
measured as Nitrogen. Determinations of this shall be made in accordance with
standard methods.
      BASE UNIT. Each single-family house, each condominium or apartment unit
and each living unit for a family or an individual in any multi-unit building,
structure, complex or other facility. A BASE UNIT under this definition is
expected to discharge wastewater into the POTW at a volume of 300 gpd or less.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard methods for five days at
20°C., usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/l).
      BUILDING DRAIN.  That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
      BUILDING SEWER.  The extension from the building drain to the public
sewer or other place of disposal.
      CARBONACEOUS BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or CBOD. The quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of carbonaceous organic matter under
standard methods for five days at 20°C. expressed as a concentration in mg/l.
      COMBINED SEWER.  A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
      GARBAGE.  Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of
food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
      GRAB SAMPLE.  A random sample which is taken from a wastestream without
regard to the flow in the wastestream or time of day and over a period of time
not to exceed 15 minutes.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTES.  The liquid wastes or liquid-borne wastes resulting
from any commercial, manufacturing, or industrial operation or process.
      INSPECTOR.  The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through
its Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
      INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT. The maximum
concentration of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined
from the analysis of any discrete or composite sample collected, independent of
the industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
      INTERFERENCE. A discharge, which alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
therefore, is a cause of a violation of the town’s NPDES permit, or the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any statutory/
regulatory provisions (including but not limited to Section 405 of the Act; the
Solid Waste Disposal Act, including Title II commonly referred to as the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any state regulations contained
in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the
Solid Waste Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act;
and the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act) or permits issued
thereunder, or any more stringent state or local regulations.
      MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes; and dialysis
wastes.
      NATURAL OUTLET.  Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or
other body of surface or ground water.
      PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of a NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or
duration of a violation.
      PERSON. Any legal entity and its legal representatives, agents, or
assigns.
      pH. A measure of how acidic or basic a substance is, expressed in
standard units.
      PHOSPHORUS. The element (P), the principal forms the element takes in
wastewater (i.e. orthophosphate, polyphosphate, and organic phosphorus) and the
nutrient elemental phosphorus measured as phosphate (PO4).
      POLLUTANT. Generally, any substance introduced into the environment, in
particular those substances discharged into the POTW, that adversely affect the
environment or the POTW specifically. These substances include, but are not
limited to, dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain wastewater that has characteristics not meeting prescribed
local, state or federal standards (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity,
color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
      PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination
of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such
pollutants into the POTW for final treatment. This reduction or alteration can
be obtained by physical, chemical, or biological processes; by process changes;
or by other means, except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants
unless allowed by an applicable pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Standards requiring pretreatment established by
the state and/or federal government, including categorical pretreatment
standards.
      PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Prohibitions
imposed by the town, the State of Indiana or the U.S. government against the
discharge of certain substances. (These town prohibitions appear in § 53.61 of
this Code.)
      PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE.  The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
      PUBLIC SEWER.  A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have
equal rights, and which is controlled by public authority.
      PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS. The sewage works and any other devices or
systems owned and operated by the town, meeting the definition of a treatment
works in the Act, used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and
reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature and any
conveyances that convey wastewater to a treatment plant.
      SANITARY SEWER.  A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
      SANITARY WASTE.  Waste from water closets, urinals, lavatories, sinks,
bath tubs, showers, household laundries, basement drains, garage floor drains,
bars, soda fountains, cuspidors, refrigerator drips, drinking fountains, stable
floor drains, and all other water- carried waste except industrial waste.
      SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels,
chemical toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
      SEWAGE. Human excrement and gray water (from household showers,
dishwashing operations, etc.).
      SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT.  Any arrangement of devices and structures used
for treating sewage.
      SEWAGE WORKS.  All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
      SEWER.  A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. An industrial user subject to categorical
pretreatment standards; or a user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process
wastewater to the Warren POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling, and
boiler blowdown wastewater);
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as such by the town on the basis that it has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      SLUG LOAD or SLUG. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which
could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §
53.61 of this Code.
      STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest
edition, at the time of analysis, of “Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater” published by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and The Water Pollution Control Federation or
another publication that these organizations officially recognize as replacing
this publication.
      STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN.  A sewer which carries storm and surface
waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
      STORM WATER. Water resulting from rain, melting or melted snow, hail, or
sleet.
      SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the Town Council to supervise
the operation of the POTW, or that person’s duly authorized representative.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface
of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquid, and which is
removable by laboratory filtering.
      TEMPORARY DISCHARGE SITUATIONS. Discharges of pollutants, substances, or
wastewater in excess of any limit under §
53.61 of this Code occurring over a period of time of no more than 90
consecutive days that may be permitted where a surcharge under §
53.78 is applicable. A temporary discharge situation may exist only once for
any user in any 12-month period (i.e., any violation of §
53.61 limits within 12 months of the end of a temporary discharge situation is
not permitable under §
53.78).
      TOWN COUNCIL. The governing body of the town.
      USER. A person, association, enterprise, institution or other entity that
is a source of direct or indirect discharges of wastewater or storm water into
the POTW. For purposes of this chapter, users may be classified and identified
by their nature, function or character. The following definitions shall apply
in classifying and identifying users. If a user fits more than one of these
definitions, the user shall be classified and identified by only the first
definition, in the order listed below, that it fits.
         (a)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment that has as a primary
purpose the performance of a social, charitable, religious, educational or
governmental function.
         (b)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial or commercial establishment,
manufacturing, or processing facility that discharges a non-domestic waste to a
POTW.
         (c)   COMMERCIAL  USER. Any establishment that has as a primary
purpose the performance of a commercial enterprise, business, or service.
         (d)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user whose premises or building is used
primarily as a residence for one or more persons.
      USER DISCHARGE CONTROL FACILITIES.  Facilities and equipment owned and/or
operated by users that are designed to:
         (a)   Screen or trap pollutants and other substances in their
wastewater for removal prior to discharging the wastewater into the POTW, or
         (b)   Store wastewater or control its flow into the POTW to ensure
equalization of flow.
      WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
discharged into the POTW.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW
that is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial waste.
   WATERCOURSE.  A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. A.)  (Am. Ord. 1997-8, passed 5-27-97; Am. Ord. 2016-2,
passed 11-14-16)
§ 53.03  DEPOSITING OBJECTIONABLE WASTES ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. B. 2.)
§ 53.04  DISCHARGING INTO NATURAL OUTLETS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within said town, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any sanitary waste, industrial
waste, or polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. B. 2.)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05  PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS, AND OTHER FACILITIES.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. B. 3.)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06  SUITABLE TOILET FACILITIES.
   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the town, and
abutting any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located a public sewer or combined sewer of the town, is
hereby required at his expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within 150 feet of
the property line.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. B. 4.)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07  DISCHARGE OF STORMWATER AND OTHER UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water,
or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer. Roof drains
(downspouts) shall be removed from the combined sewer system whenever possible.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall  be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm  sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged upon approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet. Stormwater
and all other unpolluted drainage shall be conveyed to the combined sewer
system separate from any sanitary sewer drainage in all new construction. All
new connections to the combined sewer system shall be designed and constructed
in a manner to minimize or delay inflow to the combined sewer system.
   (C)   The town shall prohibit the construction of new combined sewer
systems.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. B. 19.) (Am. Ord. 2000-9, passed 10-9-00)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08  DESTROYING OR TAMPERING WITH MUNICIPAL UTILITY SYSTEM EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works.
   (B)   Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. B. 26.)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.09  RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR PURPOSES OF INSPECTION.
   The Superintendent, Inspector, or other duly authorized employees of the
town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. B. 27.) 
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM
§ 53.20  CONNECTING BUILDING SEWER TO PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
53.06 above, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with all recommendations of the State Board of Health.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. B. 5.)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.21  CONNECTING PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system as provided in §
53.06 above, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in
compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. B. 5.)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.22  PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS TO BE KEPT SANITARY.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. B. 5.)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.23  ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained herein shall be construed to interfere with any
additional requirements that may be imposed by the local Health Officer.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. B. 5.) 
BUILDING SEWERS; INSTALLATIONS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 53.35  CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A written permit shall be obtained from the Clerk-Treasurer before any
person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into, use, alter, or
disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereto.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. B. 6.)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.36  FEES FOR CONNECTION PERMITS.
   (A)   The owner of property, or an authorized representative, seeking to
connect a building to the POTW, or seeking to expand by 1,500 square feet or
more a building that is already connected to the POTW, shall apply for a
connection permit by completing a building sewer connection permit form and
submitting it to the Superintendent or the Town Clerk-Treasurer. All plans,
specifications or other documents, containing information that may be useful in
determining the substance and volume of expected discharges into the POTW,
shall be submitted along with the completed building sewer connection permit
form.
   (B)   The sewer connection fee for a house, apartment building or other
residential facility shall be determined by multiplying the base unit charge
(identified in division (E) below) times the number of base units to be served
by the POTW as a of result of the new connection.
   (C)   The sewer connection fee for a non-residential building or building
expansion shall be determined by the building/expansion’s equivalent number of
base units. The Superintendent shall divide by 300 the building/expansion’s
expected daily volume of wastewater discharge into the POTW. The number of
times 300 divides into the expected average volume (in gpd) of wastewater
discharges shall be that building/expansion’s number of equivalent base units.
Any fraction produced by this calculation shall be rounded to the nearest tenth
of the whole number resulting from this division (e.g., a building with
expected average discharges of 700 gpd of wastewater shall be considered as
being equivalent to 2.3 base units). When the expected average volume of
wastewater discharges is less than 300 gpd, the number of equivalent base units
shall be one. The sewer connection fee shall then be calculated by multiplying
the base unit charge (identified in division (E) below) times the number of
equivalent base units to be served by the POTW.
   (D)   In determining a non-residential building/expansion’s expected average
daily wastewater discharge volume, the Superintendent may consider all factors
that might indicate future wastewater discharge volumes, including but not
limited to, the type of building, the size of the building/expansion, the
number of persons expected to use the building/expansion and the number of
wastewater receptacles in the building/expansion.
   (E)   A connection fee shall be charged to the owner of the property for the
connection permit and for the inspection of the building sewer connection. A
base unit charge of $500 for each base unit or equivalent base unit shall be
used in determining the connection fee. This fee shall be paid to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer before a building sewer connection permit is issued. Any
connection made to the POTW without a building sewer connection permit or
payment of the required connection fee is a violation of this Code.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 11-14-16)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.37  COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of a
building sewer shall be borne by the owner.  The owner or the person installing
the building sewer for said owner shall indemnify the town from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by said installation.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. B. 7.)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.38  SEPARATE BUILDING SEWER PROVIDED FOR EVERY BUILDING.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. B. 8.)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.39  USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS WITH NEW BUILDINGS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found on examination and test by the Inspector to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. B. 9.)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.40  PIPE AND JOINT SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The building sewer shall be SDR-35 or better pipe, vitrified clay
sewer pipe, ASTM specification or equal; or other suitable material approved by
the Inspector.  Joints  shall  be  tight and  waterproof.  Any part of the
building sewer that is located within ten feet of a water service pipe shall be
constructed of SDR-35 or better pipe.  ('83 Code, § 4-3 I. B. 10.) 
   (B)   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight.  All
joints in vitrified clay pipe or between such pipe and metals shall be made
with approved jointing material in accordance with the latest edition of Volume
II, Plumbing Rules and Regulations of the State Administrative Building
Council.  Other jointing materials and methods may be used only by approval of
the Inspector.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. B. 15.)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.41  SIZE AND SLOPE.
   The size and slope of the building sewers shall be subject to the approval
of the Inspector, but in no event shall the diameter be less than four inches. 
The slope of such four- inch pipe shall not be less than 1/8-inch per foot.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. B. 11.)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.42  ELEVATION OF BUILDING OF SEWER; ALIGNMENT.
   Whenever possible the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor.  No building sewer shall be laid parallel
to or within three feet of any bearing wall which might thereby be weakened. 
The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost.  The building
sewer shall be laid at a uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as
possible.  Changes in direction shall be made only with properly curved pipes
and fittings.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. B. 12.)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.43  ARTIFICIAL LIFTERS.
   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity
flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drains shall be
lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer.  No
water-operated sewage ejector shall be used.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. B. 13.)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.44  EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trenchwork unless otherwise approved by the Inspector.  Pipe-
laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM specifications,
except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected by
the Inspector or his representative.  ('83 Code, § 4-3 I. B. 14.)
   (B)   All excavations for building sewer installations shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. 
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.  ('83 Code,
§ 4-3 I. B. 18.)
Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.45  LOCATION OF CONNECTION.
   (A)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location.  If the
public sewer is 12 inches in diameter or less and no properly located "Y"
branch is available, the owner shall at his expense install a "Y" branch in the
public sewer at the location specified by the Inspector.
   (B)   Where the public sewer is greater than 12 inches in diameter, and no
properly located "Y" branch is available, a neat hole may be cut in the public
sewer to receive the building sewer, with entry in the downstream direction at
an angle of about 45 degrees.  A 45-degree ell may be used to make such
connection, with the spigot end cut so as not to extend past the inner surface
of the public sewer.  The invert of the building sewer at the point of
connection shall be at the same or at a higher elevation than the invert of the
public sewer.  A smooth, neat joint shall be made, and the connection made
secure and watertight by encasement in concrete.  Special fittings may be used
for the connection only when approved by the Inspector.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. B. 16.)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.46  INSPECTIONS; SUPERVISION OF CONNECTIONS TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   The applicant for a building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector  when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. 
The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. B. 17.)  Penalty, see §
53.99
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 53.60  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and policy. The objectives of the town in regulating the use
of the POTW and in establishing rates and charges for its use are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will
interfere with its operation;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will
pass through the POTW, inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or
otherwise be incompatible with the POTW;
      (3)   To protect both POTW personnel who may be affected by wastewater
and sludge in the course of their employment and the general public;
      (4)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the POTW;
      (5)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance, and improvement of the POTW; and
      (6)   To enable the town to comply with its National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and
any other federal or state laws to which the POTW is subject.
   (B)   Administration. Except as otherwise  provided  herein,  the 
Superintendent  shall administer, implement, and enforce the rules on the use
of the POTW.
   (C)   Town’s right of revision. The town reserves the right to establish, by
ordinance, more stringent standards or requirements on discharges to the POTW
consistent with the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 11-14-16)
§ 53.61  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   General prohibition. No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced
into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through or
interference.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. Except as hereinafter provided, no user shall
introduce or cause to be introduced into the POTW the following pollutants,
substances, or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
      (2)   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 9.0, or otherwise
causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference;
      (4)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause interference
with the POTW;
      (5)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 140°F (60°C), or which
will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (6)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (7)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Trucked or hauled pollutants;
      (9)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
      (10)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant’s
effluent, thereby violating the town’s NPDES permit;
      (11)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the Superintendent;
      (12)   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (13)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Superintendent in a wastewater discharge permit;
      (14)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant's effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      (15)   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
      (16)   FOGs of animal, plant or petroleum origin in concentrations
greater than 100 mg/l, except for temporary discharge situations, but under no
circumstances shall discharges contain FOG and/or petroleum concentrations
greater than 1,000 mg/l; or
      (17)   Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this section
shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged
to the POTW.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 11-14-16)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.62  PRETREATMENT AND USER DISCHARGE CONTROL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Pretreatment standards. Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all
state and federal pretreatment standards, and the prohibitions set out in this
chapter within any applicable time limitations specified by EPA, the state, the
Town Council, or the Superintendent. All state or federal government approvals
and permits required for undertaking pretreatment and the installation of
pretreatment facilities shall be obtained by the user. Any facilities necessary
for compliance shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user’s
expense.
   (B)   User discharge control facilities.
      (1)   All users that discharge more than 30,000 gallons of wastewater per
month shall install and maintain, on the user’s property and at the user’s
expense, suitable storage and flow-control facilities to ensure equalization of
flow and/or compliance with the requirements of §
53.61 of this Code, unless the Town Council formally determines that it would
not be beneficial to the POTW for a user to do this.
      (2)   All users, except residential users, shall have interceptors for
FOG if their wastewater contains FOG concentrations greater than 100 mg/l and
sand interceptors if the Superintendent determines that sand in a user’s
discharge creates POTW interference. All interception units shall be of type
and capacity suitable for the wastewater and compatible with the POTW.
Interceptors shall be made easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be regularly inspected and cleaned, and repaired as needed
for continuous efficient operation at all times, by the user at the user’s
expense.
      (3)   Users that have user discharge control facilities must maintain a
written report of the dates and particulars concerning all inspections,
cleaning and repair of user discharge control facilities. These reports shall
be made available to the Town Council or the Superintendent for review upon
request.
   (C)   Detection of flammable substance discharges. Users with the potential
to discharge flammable substances may be required by the Town Council or the
Superintendent to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection
meter.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 11-14-16)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.63  REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Wastewater analysis. A user must submit current and accurate
information on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within five
days of receiving a request for this information from the Superintendent, This
information shall be submitted on a form or in a format approved by the
Superintendent.
   (B)   Information disclosure requirements. In addition to the information
that may be requested of any user pursuant to division (A) above, the
Superintendent may require all users except residential users to submit the
following information:
      (1)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at
the facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, discharged
to the POTW;
      (2)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation , and proposed or
actual hours of operation;
      (3)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
rate of production;
      (4)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day);
      (5)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details
to show ail sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances, including pretreatment and
user discharge control facilities, by size, location, and elevation, and ail
points of discharge;
      (6)   Time and duration of discharges; and
      (7)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the
Superintendent.
   (C)   Information on new connections. Prior to the time any user, except
residential users, begins or recommences discharging into the POTW, that user
must submit the information in division (B) above.
   (D)   Reports of potential problems.
      (1)   In the event of any accidental discharges, discharges of a non-
routine episodic nature, noncustomary batch discharges, slug loads, or other
discharges that may cause potential problems for the POTW, the user responsible
for the discharge shall immediately telephone and notify the Superintendent of
the incident. This notification shall include the location of the discharge,
type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken
by the user.
      (2)   All users, except residential users, shall permanently post a
notice on the user’s bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees
whom to call in the event of a discharge described in division (D)(1) above.
Employers shall ensure that all employees, whose work activities or other
actions might cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the notification
procedure described in division (D)(1) above.
   (E)   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste. In addition to
providing the notification required in division (D) above, any user who
commences the discharge of hazardous waste (as defined by federal or state law)
into the POTW shall notify the Superintendent, the EPA Regional Waste
Management Division Director, and state hazardous waste authorities, in
writing, of all significant details concerning the discharge. This provision
does not create a right to discharge any substance not otherwise permitted to
be discharged by this chapter or any applicable federal or state law.
   (F)   Record keeping. All users required to make prepare or otherwise make
available information under §§
53.64,
53.65 or 56.66 shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, ail
records of that information. These records shall remain available for a period
of at least three  years. This period shall be automatically extended for the
duration of any litigation concerning the user or the town, or where the user
has been specifically notified of a longer retention period by the
Superintendent.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 11-14-16)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.64  COMPLIANCE MONITORING.
   (A)   Right of entry. The Superintendent shall have the right to enter the
premises of any user to determine whether the user is complying with all
requirements of this chapter or order issued hereunder. Users shall allow the
Superintendent ready access to all parts of their premises for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing, and the performance
of any other tasks the Superintendent deems necessary for the enforcement of
this chapter.
   (B)   Inspection and sampling.
      (1)   The Superintendent shall have the right to set up on a user’s
property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the user’s discharges into the POTW.
      (2)   The Superintendent may require a user to install equipment for
sampling and/or monitoring the user’s discharges into the POTW. The sampling
and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper
operating condition by the user at its own expense.
      (3)   Any obstruction to the safe and easy access to any part of user’s
property, that the Superintendent seeks to access for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing, and the performance
of any other tasks he deems necessary for the enforcement of this chapter, must
at the Superintendent’s request be promptly removed by the user.
   (C)   Analytical requirements. All pollutant analyses, including sampling
techniques, to be submitted as part of a report required by this chapter, shall
be performed in accordance with standard methods or other techniques and/or
procedures approved by EPA or IDEM.
   (D)   Sample collection.
      (1)   Subject to the following exception, the town and/or user must
collect wastewater samples using flow proportional composite collection
techniques. In the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible, the
Superintendent may authorize the use of time proportional sampling or a minimum
of four grab samples where the Superintendent determines that this will provide
a representative sample of the effluent being discharged. In addition, grab
samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous discharge limits.
      (2)   Grab samples should be used in testing for FOG, temperature, pH,
cyanide, phenols, sulfides, and volatile organic compounds.
   (E)   Testing/evaluation requirements. Tests of wastewater for compliance
and general evaluation purposes by the town shall be at the expense of the user
discharging the wastewater. Charges for the expense of each test/evaluation
shall be as follows:
 
Description of Service          Expense
Labor charge                    $18.50
Shipping and handling charge    10.00
Testing charges                 5.00
   pH                        25.00
   FOG                       15.00
   DOB                       8.00
   TSS                       15.00
   NH3 -N                    15.00
   P
Equipment charges               15.00
   Vehicle                   10.00
   Sampling equipment
Total cost for testing a sample $136.50
 
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 11-14-16)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.65  CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION AND PUBLICATION OF NOTICE OF NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Information and data on any user obtained from reports, surveys
monitoring programs, and from the Superintendent’s inspection and sampling
activities, shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the
user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the Town Council that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection as
trade secrets, or is information that cannot be publicly disclosed under
applicable state or federal law. Any such request must be asserted by the user
at the time of submission of the information or data. When requested and
demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that such information should be
held confidential, the portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets
or secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the public,
but shall be made available immediately upon request to governmental agencies
for uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment program, and in
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater
constituents and characteristics and other “effluent data” will not be
recognized as confidential information and will be available to the public
without restriction.
   (B)   The town shall publish annually, in the daily newspaper with the
largest circulation published in Huntington County, Indiana, a fist of the
users, if any, which, during the previous 12 months, were determined by the
Town Council to have seriously violated, or been in substantial noncompliance
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 11-14-16)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.66  SPECIAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN TOWN AND INDUSTRIAL CONCERNS.
   No statement contained herein shall be construed as preventing any special
agreement or arrangement between the town and any industrial concern whereby an
industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the town
for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. B. 24.)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 53.74  DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Unless waived or modified by the Clerk-Treasurer's Office for good
cause shown, the following deposits shall be paid at the Clerk-Treasurer's
Office prior to the furnishing of wastewater service. Further, any such waiver
shall be reported at the next public Council meeting, and noted in the record
of the proceedings of that meeting.
   (B)   Base deposit: $50.00.
   (C)   Surcharge deposits.
      (1)   Unless it is established to the reasonable satisfaction of the
Clerk- Treasurer's Office that the person responsible for a meters billing (the
customer) includes the owner of the premises to be served as shown in the
records of the Huntington County Courthouse, the required customer deposit
shall be surcharged in an amount equal to two times the base deposit shown
above.
      (2)   If the person responsible for a meters billing (the customer) has a
current unpaid, or within two years has a substantial and either recurring or
longstanding delinquent account balance with the town, the required customer
deposit shall be surcharged in an amount equal to two times the otherwise
applicable meter deposit, except that the deposit shall in no event aggregate
more than four times the otherwise applicable base deposit shown above.
      (3)   If the final customer billing is not paid in full by its due date,
the customer base, and any surcharge, deposit shall be forfeited to the town's
wastewater utility and be applied first against the customer's then unpaid
account balance, with any remainder to be deposited in the general funds of the
utility.
(Ord. 2004-9, passed 9-13-04)
§ 53.75  SERVICE FEES.
   For the availability of, use, or service by the town’s sewage works, fees
shall be collected from the owner of each lot, parcel of real property or
building that is connected to the town’s sanitary sewer system or otherwise
uses or is served by that system. Those fees shall be payable, and shall be in
an amount determinable, as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 11-14-16)
§ 53.76  SERVICE RATES.
   Monthly sewage service rates shall be as follows:
   (A)   The customer service charge shall be $26.34 per month per service
location or establishment without regard to actual water used.
   (B)   The metered usage charge shall be $6.41 per each 1,000 gallons of
metered water.
   (C)   Payment for services shall be the customer service charge plus the
metered usage charge.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. C. 1.(a))  (Ord. 1986-2, passed 4-8-86; Am. Ord. 1987-5,
passed 8-25-87; Am. Ord. 1994-10, passed 8-8-94; Am. Ord. 1995-8, passed 4-10-
95; Am. Ord. 1996-1, passed 2-12-96; Am. Ord. 2002-13, passed 9-9-03; Am. Ord.
2015-3, passed 5-11-15)
§ 53.77  TOWN SUBJECT TO SAME FEES.
   The town shall be subject to the same fees, or to similar fees established
in harmony therewith.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. C. 1.(b)) 
§ 53.78  WASTEWATER SURCHARGES.
   (A)   Liability for surcharge. Each user shall be subject to a surcharge, in
addition to the regular sewer charges, if they discharge wastewater or any
other substances into the POTW that have constituent concentrations greater
than the following:
      (1)   A CBOD of 200 mg/l.
      (2)   A TSS content of 200 mg/l.
      (3)   A phosphorus content of 12 mg/l.
      (4)   An ammonia-nitrogen content of 15mg/l.
      (5)   A FOG content of 100 mg/l.
   (B)   Computation of surcharge. The surcharge shall be determined as
follows: The amount the constituent concentration levels identified in division
(A) of this section are exceeded will be determined on the basis of pounds with
the surcharge computed by first multiplying the user’s sewage volume, as
determined for billing purposes, measured in units of 100 cubic feet for the
applicable billing period by the factor 0.0062321 and then multiplying this
product by the difference between (a) the concentrations measured in mg/l of
the CBOD and of the suspended solids respectively in the user’s wastewater and
(b) the allowed concentrations. The surcharge for each constituent will then be
determined by multiplying the excess pounds of each constituent by the rate of
surcharge specified in division (C) of this section.
   (C)   Rates of surcharge. The rate of surcharge shall be as follows:
      (1)   For CBOD:  $.21 per pound.
      (2)   For TSS:  $.32 per pound.
      (3)   For phosphorus:  $1.29 per pound.
      (4)   For ammonia- nitrogen:  $.97 per pound.
      (5)   For FOG:  $.22 per pound.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 11-14-16)
§ 53.79  WHEN PAYMENTS DUE.
   All fees shall be due and payable by the 15th day of the month they become
due.  If not paid by the 15th day following the date of the bill, 10% interest
shall be added to the amount due.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. C. 1.(d)) 
§ 53.80  SEWAGE WORKS CAPITAL RESERVE ACCOUNT.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is directed to set aside 5% of the sewage works
gross fee revenues in a Sewage Works Capital Reserve Account to be held,
invested, reinvested, and expended as hereafter directed by the Town Council.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. C. 1.(e))
§ 53.81  DETERMINATION OF NONRESIDENTIAL SEWAGE SERVICE RATES; RATES OF
DISCHARGERS.
   (A)   In cases other than residential sewage service, the quantity of water
obtained from sources other than the water utility serving the town and
discharged into the public sanitary sewage system may be determined by the town
in such manner as the proper officers of the town shall elect and the sewage
services may be billed at the preceding appropriate rates.
   (B)   Each lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharging sanitary
waste, industrial waste, water, or other material into the town's sanitary
sewage system, either directly or indirectly, which is a user of water supplied
other than by the town water utility, shall install and thereafter maintain
meters to meter the water delivered or available thereto at locations
accessible to and to the satisfaction of the town, which meters shall
thereafter be maintained in working order, all at the expense of that user. 
The amount of water used shall thereafter be monitored by the town in order to
ascertain the rates of charge to the user, which shall be determined based upon
metered water in the same way, and in accordance with the rate schedules
established, for sewer utility users by this code from time to time.
   (C)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharges
sanitary waste, industrial waste, water, or other liquids into the town's
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in excess
of 20,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of the
town that a portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does not
and cannot enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other interested
party shall install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices,
or any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for
the determination of sewage discharge.
   (D)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate, or
buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water, or other liquids into the town's
sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and
the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in such case,
for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged for each
user and the minimum charge and the sewage rates and charges shall apply to
each of the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate, or buildings
served through the single water meter.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. C. 2.)  (Ord. 1986-2, passed 4-8-86)
§ 53.82  CHARGES ALSO TO BE BASED ON STRENGTH AND CHARACTER OF DISCHARGES. 
   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably adjusted to
the services rendered, the town shall have the right to base its charges not
only on volume where the customer is metered for water service, but also on the
strength and character of the sewage and waste which it is required to treat
and dispose of.  The town shall have the right to measure and determine the
strength and content of all sewage and waste discharged, either directly or
indirectly, into the town's sanitary sewage system in such manner and by such
method as may be deemed practical in the light of the conditions and attending 
proper officers of the town are authorized to prohibit the dumping of waste
into the town's sewage system which in its discretion is deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage disposal works of the town.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. C. 3.)
§ 53.83  METHOD OF BILLING.
   (A)   The rates and charges shall be prepared and billed by the town and
shall be collected in the manner provided by law and ordinance.  The rates and
charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying the property served
unless requested in writing by the owners, but such billing shall in no way
release the owners from liability in the event payment is not made as herein
required.  The owners of properties served which are occupied by tenants shall
have the right to examine the collection records of the town for the purpose of
determining whether such rates and charges have been paid by such tenants,
provided that such examination shall be at the office in which said records are
kept and during the hours that the office is open for business.
   (B)   Billing for sewage rates and charges shall be made monthly, and such
rates and charges, except as hereinbefore provided, shall, in the case of
metered premises, be based upon the quantity of water used on or in the
property or premises as the same is measured by the water meter therein used,
and said metered water usage shall be determined from the meter readings as
furnished by the water utility serving the town.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. C. 4.) 
§ 53.84  ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS.
   The proper officers of the town shall make and enforce such bylaws and
regulations as may be deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient
management of the town's sewage works, including the sewer system and the
treatment plant for the construction and use of house sewers and connections to
the sewer system, and for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of
rates and charges.
('83 Code, § 4-3 I. C. 5.)
§ 53.98  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notification of violation.  When the Superintendent finds that a user
has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter or order
issued hereunder, or any other requirement, the Superintendent may serve upon
that user a written notice of violation. Within five days of the receipt of
this notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory
correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall
be submitted by the user to the Superintendent. Submission of this plan in no
way relieves the user of liability for any violations occurring before or after
receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the
authority of the Superintendent to take any action, including emergency actions
or any other enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
   (B)   Voluntary compliance agreements.  Town Council may enter into written
assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar agreement with any user
responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will include specific action to
be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a time period
specified by the document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect
as the administrative orders issued pursuant to the following provisions of
this section and shall be judicially enforceable.
   (C)   Show cause hearing.  The Town Council or Superintendent may order a
user which has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this
chapter, or order issued hereunder, to appear before the Town Council and show
cause why enforcement action should not be taken.  A show cause hearing shall
not be a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any other action against the
user.
   (D)   Compliance orders.  When the Town Council or Superintendent finds that
a user has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, or
order issued hereunder, the Town Council or Superintendent may issue an order
to the user responsible for the discharge directing that the user come into
compliance within a specified time. If the user does not come into compliance
within the time provided, monetary fines may be imposed and/or sewer service
may be discontinued. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against,
or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   (E)   Cease and desist orders.
      (1)   When the Town Council or Superintendent finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any pretreatment requirement, or
that the user’s past violations are likely to recur, the Town Council or
Superintendent may issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist
all such violations and directing the user to:
         (a)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
         (b)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
      (2)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or
a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   (F)   Emergency suspensions. The Superintendent may immediately suspend a
user’s discharge, after informal notice to the user whenever such suspension is
considered by the Superintendent to be necessary to stop an actual or
threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present or cause an imminent
or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. The
Superintendent may also immediately suspend a user’s discharge, after notice
and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the operation of
the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to the
environment. A hearing is not required prior to any such emergency suspension.
   (G)   Termination of service. Termination of service is the revocation of an
industrial user’s privilege to discharge non-domestic wastewater into the sewer
system. Termination of service is used when the discharge from an industrial
user presents imminent endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, or the
environment; or threatens to interfere with the POTW’s operations; or as an
escalating enforcement action to a significant violation when a noncompliant
industrial user fails to respond adequately to previous enforcement actions.
Termination of service may be accomplished by physical severance of the
industrial user’s connection to the collection system, issuance of an AO (cease
and desist order) which compels the industrial user to immediately terminate
its discharge, revocation of the industrial user’s discharge permit, or a court
ruling.
   (H)   Injunctive relief.  When the Town Council finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter or order
issued hereunder, the town may petition the Huntington County Circuit Court for
the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which
restrains or compels the specific performance of the order, or other
requirement imposed by this chapter on activities of the user. The town may
also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable
relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct environmental
remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 11-14-16)
§ 53.99  FINES AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Administrative fines.
      (1)   When the Town Council finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter or order issued hereunder, the Town
Council may fine the user a civil penalty of not more than $2,500 per day, per
violation for a first violation nor more than $7,500 per day, per violation for
subsequent violations, in accordance with IC 36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B). In the case of
monthly or other long term average discharge limits, fines may be assessed for
each day during the period of  violation.  A lien against the user's property
may be sought for unpaid charges, fines, and penalties.
      (2)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request
for the Town Council to reconsider the fine along with their full payment of
the fine amount within five days of being notified of the fine.
      (3)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, the Town Council taking any other action against the user.
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, or order issued hereunder, shall be liable to the town for a
civil penalty of not more than $2,500 per day, per violation for a first
violation nor more than $7,500 per day, per violation for subsequent
violations, in accordance with IC 36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B). In the case of a monthly
or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties may accrue for each day
during the period of the violation.
      (2)   The town may recover reasonable attorneys' fees, court costs, and
other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and
monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the town.
      (3)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice requires.
      (4)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   (C)   Remedies nonexclusive.  The remedies provided for in this chapter are
not exclusive.
(Ord. 2016-16, passed 11-14-16)
CHAPTER 54:  GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
54.01   Purpose
   
54.02   Definitions
   
54.03   Rules, regulations and operations
   
54.04   Rates and charges
   
54.05   Payment due
   
54.06   Delinquent charges
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01  PURPOSE.
   In order to promote the health and general welfare of the people of the
town, the following program is established as a separate operating division of
the town's sewage utility for the collection and disposition of garbage and
rubbish, and to pay the costs thereof.
(Ord. 1989-5, passed 12-11-89)
§ 54.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE COLLECTION UNIT.
      (1)   Unless otherwise established in a written contract to which the
town is a party, each underconstruction and newly constructed unit shall not be
an ACTIVE COLLECTION UNIT or charged for collection until occupied.
      (2)   Except for the circumstances as stated in subsection (1) of this
definition, if town water or sewer is connected and billed by the town, that
unit is an ACTIVE COLLECTION UNIT and the charges under this chapter shall be
made and due; unless and to the extent that within 30 days of the adoption of
this chapter, or within ten days of a change of occupancy of  the  collection 
unit (documented to the reasonable satisfaction  of  the  town) and a change of
designation of the town's customer for water or sewer service to that
collection unit; the collection unit expressly notifies the town's Clerk-
Treasurer in writing that the collection unit has made other arrangements for
collection and disposition of garbage and rubbish.  Each notice shall be
continuing and nonrevocable without the prior written consent of the town,
except in accordance with this subsection.
   APPROVED BUNDLE.  An APPROVED BUNDLE shall not exceed three feet in length
or be more than two feet in width or depth, or less than one cubic foot in
volume. An APPROVED BUNDLE may not weigh more than 60 pounds and must not come
apart when handled for collection.
   APPROVED CONTAINER.  A watertight covered receptacle not exceeding 35
gallons in capacity and neither larger nor heavier than an approved bundle, and
must not come apart when handled for collection.
   COLLECTION UNIT.  A single- family dwelling unit occupied by one person or a
single-family unit or one governmental, business or professional enterprise
within the town and any comparable situation outside of the town which asks to
be included and are expressly approved by the Council, pending further Council
action.
   COMPOSTABLES.  All leaves, grass, brush, limbs (not trees) and similar
vegetable matter, yard waste and compostable containers then accepted in the
town's composting program as provided in a duly adopted policy of the Town
Council.
   GARBAGE.  All and every refuse accumulation of animal, fish, fowl, fruit or
vegetable matter that results from the preparation, use, cooking, retail or
wholesale dealing in, or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetable and
shall include garbage wrapped in paper or its equivalent. It shall further mean
and include tin cans, glass, bottles and broken crockery which have been used
as food or beverage holders, also old bottles, glass, china and crockery.
   RECYCLABLE.  Newspaper, mixed paper, corrugated cardboard, plastic
containers, aluminum, tin cans, and glass bottles and jars and other items then
accepted in the town's waste recycling program, as established by and in
accordance with the Town Code and those then in force related policies as are
adopted and published as legal notices from time to time by the Town Council.
Notwithstanding the foregoing definitions of GARBAGE and RUBBISH items included
in this definition shall take precedence, with the effect that the items so
described shall be recyclables.
   RUBBISH.  Material other than garbage, resulting from ordinary household
operations including such items as tin cans, glass, bottles, ashes, papers,
magazine and newsprints, boxes, rags, old shoes, and small cartons. Burning
barrels will not be emptied but, empty burning barrels will be taken.
(Ord. 1989-5, passed 12-11-89; Am. Ord. 1993-7, passed 5-3-93; Am. Ord. 1994-
13, passed 11-14- 94)
§ 54.03  RULES, REGULATIONS AND OPERATIONS.
   (A)   All governmental, business, professional and residential recyclables,
compostables, garbage and rubbish to be collected pursuant to this chapter
shall be placed for collection by the owners or producers in approved bundles
or approved containers which shall then be placed conveniently for the
collection at ground level, within five feet adjoining an improved and passable
alley, where there is an alley, or if there is not alley at an easily
accessible spot within five feet of the front curb line at times and on
collection days to be established by the town.
   (B)   No more than three approved containers and/or bundles of garbage and/
or rubbish need be collected from any collection unit on any single collection
day.
   (C)   All recyclables shall be reasonably clean and free of foreign matter
and placed for collection by the owners or producers thereof in approved
recycling containers which shall also be placed for periodic collection as
provided in division (A) above, and otherwise in accordance with those then in
force related policies as are adopted and published as legal notices from time
to time by the Town Council.
   (D)   Approved bundles and approved containers shall not be placed for
collection earlier than 5:00 p.m. on the day prior to the collection day
established by the town.
   (E)   Approved containers shall not remain at the collection point after 6:
00 p.m. on the day of collection.
   (F)   No person shall convey or haul over the streets, alleys or public
places of the town any garbage or rubbish unless the vehicle containing it has
a box bottom with tight-fitting ends, sides and bottom, properly closed and
tight-fitting, and covered with a lid, screen, wire mesh, tarpaulin or other
cover which is sufficient to prevent its contents from falling or blowing upon
the streets, alleys or other public or private property in the town.
   (G)   No person shall burn or cause to be burned in the open air outside of
a dwelling house or other building within town limits unless the material so
burned is burned in an Environmental Protection Agency or Indiana Department of
Environmental Management approved incinerator of such type and construction as
shall prevent any ash or embers from it from flying or scattering and becoming
a fire hazard and endangering surrounding property to damage by fire.
(Ord. 1989-5, passed 12-11-89; Am. Ord. 1993-7, passed 5-3-93; Am. Ord. 1994-
13, passed 11-14- 94)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.04  RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   A charge of $6.25 per active collection unit per month shall be made
for the availability of the service in the collection and disposal of garbage
and rubbish and recyclables within the limitations provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Any collection unit, other than single-family residential, desiring
regular garbage and/or rubbish and/or recyclable disposal service in excess
amounts or of differing material than herein provided for a collection unit,
may negotiate for an express written agreement with the town, or the town's
designated representative, to pay an additional charge for that service. The
additional charge shall be established by the Town Council and bear a
reasonable relationship to and defray the costs, including indirect costs, of
the additional service.
   (C)   Any active collection unit having an unusual nonrecurring need for
garbage and/or rubbish and/or recyclable collection and disposal may negotiate
and make a separate one-time arrangement with the collection service, if any,
under contract to the town to provide the services contemplated by this
chapter.
   (D)   The charge for any collection unit as set forth in this chapter for
garbage and rubbish and/or recyclable  disposal shall be the obligation of the
owner and any occupant of that collection unit.
   (E)   Any situation not fairly and adequately addressed by the above rate
shall be equitably determined by the Town Council.
(Ord. 1989-5, passed 12-11-89; Am. Ord. 1993-7, passed 5-3-93; Am. Ord. 1998-3,
passed 4-27-98)
§ 54.05  PAYMENT DUE.
   All charges shall be due and payable by the 15th day of the month in which
the collection service for which the charge is being made is rendered (e.g.
payment for January collections are due and payable on January 15th). If not
paid by the 15th day following the date due, a 10% penalty shall be added to
the delinquent amount.
(Ord. 1989-5, passed 12-11-89)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.06  DELINQUENT CHARGES.
   Unpaid delinquent charges may upon not less than ten days written notice
personally delivered or mailed to the last known billing address of the
collection unit, result in the disconnection of water and/or sewer service
provided to that collection unit by the town and/or be filed as a lien against
the real estate of the collection unit; all pursuant to applicable provisions
of this code of ordinances and/or state law.
(Ord. 1989-5, passed 12-11-89)  Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine of $50 for each violation. Each day a violation occurs or continues shall
be a separate violation.
(Ord. 1989-5, passed 12-11-89)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
     Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC CODE
      
72.   STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
      
73.   REGULATION OF CERTAIN UNLICENSED WHEELED VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
76.   GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Title
   
70.02   Application of title; application of state law
   
70.03   Enforcement of traffic regulations
   
70.04   Play streets
   
70.05   Vehicle restrictions
   
70.06   Emergency vehicles
   
70.07   Exercising proper precaution
   
70.08   Minors violating traffic code
Inspections
   
70.15   Inspection fee
Accidents
   
70.25   Accident report fee
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   For Municipal Violations Bureau and prepayment of fines, see §
35.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  TITLE.
   This title shall be known as the Warren Traffic Code.
('83 Code, § 6-1) 
§ 70.02  APPLICATION OF TITLE; APPLICATION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   Every person on foot or driving or propelling a vehicle (including
carts,  wagons,  and bicycles) or riding an animal, upon a public way within
the town shall have the rights and be subject to the duties and penalties of
this title, excepting those which can have no application.
   (B)   State traffic laws regulating vehicles and pedestrians upon roadways
shall be applicable to all vehicles and pedestrians upon public ways within the
town, except as appropriately modified by this code.  The provisions of this
title may in no way affect the civil or criminal responsibility of any person
under the laws of the state.
('83 Code, § 6-1)
§ 70.03  ENFORCEMENT OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The Town Marshal is hereby empowered as follows with reference to the
following matters, and thereafter, as soon as is reasonably possible, to fully
report all such activities to the Town Council:
   (A)   To act as necessary to make effective the provisions of the town's
traffic code.
   (B)   To make and enforce temporary or experimental regulations to cover
emergencies or special conditions relating to vehicle or pedestrian control for
a period not to exceed 30 days.
('83 Code, § 6-13)
§ 70.04  PLAY STREETS.
   The Town Council shall have the authority to act by resolution to declare
any public way or part thereof a play street and to place appropriate signs or
devices in the roadway indicating and helping to protect the same.
('83 Code, § 6-8) 
§ 70.05  VEHICLE RESTRICTIONS.
   In accordance with IC 9-20- 1-3, the following restrictions apply only to
commercial vehicles which are not traveling on state highways.
   (A)   Load restrictions.  No person shall operate a vehicle with a gross
weight in excess of the amounts specified on signs posted on any public way.
   (B)   Commercial vehicle prohibitions.  No person shall operate a commercial
vehicle upon any public way where signs posted prohibit entering, except upon
authority given by an authorized traffic officer.
   (C)   Vehicle size limitation.  No person shall operate any vehicle
exceeding any dimensions posted on signs on any public way.
   (D)   Tractors with cleats, and the like.  No person shall operate a
tractor, traction engine or similar vehicle having cleats, angle irons, spikes,
lugs or other rough surfaces on its wheels which may damage the public way over
which it is traveling, without a written permit to do so from the Clerk-
Treasurer.
('83 Code, § 6-9)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06  EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call (but not upon returning from a fire alarm), or when in the
pursuit of a suspected law breaker may drive, park or stand without regard to
the provisions of this traffic code, but nothing herein shall relieve the
driver from a duty to act with due regard for the safety of all persons and
property.
('83 Code, § 6-10)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07  EXERCISING PROPER PRECAUTION.
   Notwithstanding other provisions of this title, every user of the public
ways of this town shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any other
user of, or anything located upon, any public way in the town, and shall give
appropriate warnings, and exercise proper precautions in the circumstances.
('83 Code, § 6-11)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08  MINORS VIOLATING TRAFFIC CODE.
   The parent or guardian of any minor shall not authorize or knowingly permit
any such minor to violate any of the provisions of this traffic code.
('83 Code, § 6-2 II. C.)  Penalty, see §
70.99
INSPECTIONS
§ 70.15  INSPECTION FEE.
   (A)   The Town Marshal, Assistant Marshal, or Deputy Marshal shall hereafter
charge, collect, and remit to the Town Clerk-Treasurer a fee of $5 for each
motor vehicle inspection check conducted prior to registration in the state for
a certificate of title pursuant to IC 9-17-2-12 et seq. and amendments thereto.
   (B)   All fees collected from inspections as provided for in this section
shall be deposited in the Town Continuing Education Fund, to be disbursed
therefrom by appropriation.
(Ord. 1988-9, passed 8-8-88)
ACCIDENTS
§ 70.25  ACCIDENT REPORT FEE.
   (A)   The Town Marshal, Assistant Marshal, or Deputy Marshal shall hereafter
charge, collect, and remit to the Town Clerk-Treasurer a fee of $5 for each
motor vehicle accident report furnished to a person entitled thereto, pursuant
IC 9- 29-11-1 and amendments thereto.
   (B)   All fees collected from accident reports as provided for in this
section shall be deposited in the Town Continuing Education Fund, to be
expended at the Town Marshal's discretion for any Police Department purposes
reasonably related to the keeping of accident reports or the prevention of 
accidents.
(Ord. 1988-9, passed 8-8-88; Am. Ord. 1999-6, passed 10-11-99)
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this title
and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offender shall be fined not more than
$2500 for each offense or violation.  A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Traffic lanes
   
71.02   Traffic-control devices
Speed Limits
   
71.15   State speed laws applicable
Cross-reference:
   Traffic Schedules, see
Ch. 74
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01  TRAFFIC LANES.
   The Town Police Department, in cooperation with the Town Street Department,
shall cause traffic lanes to be indicated upon the traveled portion of any
public way where a regular alignment of traffic is necessary.
('83 Code, § 6-4 I.)  (Ord. 1987- 7, passed 10-13-87)
§ 71.02  TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The Town Police Department, in cooperation with the Town Street
Department, shall place and maintain official traffic-control devices,
including parking signs, as appropriate under this traffic code.
   (B)   All persons shall obey the instructions of any applicable official
traffic- control device placed in accordance with the provisions of this
traffic code, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police officer.
('83 Code, § 6-4)  (Ord. 1987-7, passed 10-13-87)
Penalty, see §
70.99
SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.15  STATE SPEED LAWS APPLICABLE.
   The state traffic laws regulating the speed of vehicles shall be applicable
upon all streets within this town except as provided for in
Chapter 74, Schedule III of this traffic code.
('83 Code, § 6-3)
CHAPTER 72:  STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Blocking of public way prohibited
   
72.02   Displaying for sale, or washing or repairing vehicle on public way
prohibited
   
72.03   Parking of inoperable vehicles on public ways prohibited
   
72.04   Angle parking
   
72.05   Parking near fire hydrant prohibited
   
72.06   Places where stopping, standing, or parking prohibited
   
72.07   Parking and loitering on walkways, driveways and parking areas
   
72.08   Parking against the flow of traffic
Fire Lanes
   
72.15   Obstructing fire lanes prohibited
Snow Removal and Emergencies
   
72.25   General snow removal
   
72.26   Proclamation of snow emergency
   
72.27   Snow emergency routes
   
72.28   Rules and regulations during snow emergencies
   
72.29   Violation of snow emergency regulations
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Municipal violations bureau, prepayment of fines,  see
Ch. 35
   Parking Schedules, see
Ch. 75
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01  BLOCKING OF PUBLIC WAY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon business or residential streets in
such a manner or under such conditions  as to  leave available  less than ten
feet  of the width of the street for free movement of vehicular traffic.
('83 Code, § 6-6 A.)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02  DISPLAYING FOR SALE, OR WASHING OR REPAIRING VEHICLE ON PUBLIC WAY
PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any public way for the purpose of
displaying such vehicle for sale or for washing, greasing, or repairing such
vehicle, except for the purpose of making repairs necessitated by an emergency.
('83 Code, § 6-6 B.)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03  PARKING OF INOPERABLE VEHICLES ON PUBLIC WAYS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any public way in an inoperable
condition for a continuous period in excess of seven days.
('83 Code, § 6-6 C.)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04  ANGLE PARKING.
   On any public way which has been designated and signed for angle parking, no
person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or
edge of the public way as indicated.
('83 Code, § 6-6 D.)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05  PARKING NEAR FIRE HYDRANT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle in closer proximity than 15 feet to a fire
hydrant.
('83 Code, § 6-6 E.)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06  PLACES WHERE STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Except  when  necessary  to  avoid  conflict  withother traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control device,
no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   On a crosswalk;
   (E)   Within 15 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   (F)   In the driveway entrance or exit of a fire or emergency station;
   (G)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction, when such
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (H)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
   (I)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a public way; or
   (J)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
('83 Code, § 6-6 F.)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07  PARKING AND LOITERING ON WALKWAYS, DRIVEWAYS AND PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to block entrances or exits to any parking area
adjacent to any business building or public building in any manner, whether by
vehicle, persons and barricades, unless by direction of the owner or manager of
any public building or business, whereby doing so, causes any difficulty in
entering or exiting the premises or adjacent drive or parking area, except for
the purpose of repairs by municipal authorities or private contractors engaged
by the owner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to create or cause to be created any loud or
unseemly noise on the premises of any public facility or business, including
but not limited to racing of engines of motor vehicles, sudden starting  or
stopping  of vehicles,  blowing any  horn or noise making device, and yelling
or other loud or disruptive behavior or actions.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any persons on a walkway, driveway, or
parking area of a public building or business building, whether in or out of an
automobile or other vehicle to consume any intoxicating substance.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive motor vehicles repeatedly
through parking areas or driveways of any public building or business building
without attempting to park said vehicle for the regular conduct of business at
that location.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any unoccupied motor
vehicle upon a walkway, driveway or parking area of a public building or
business building and to leave such premises to go elsewhere without knowledge
and consent of the owner, manager or person in charge of such premises, if such
premises are so posted by the owner or manager or person in charge of such
premises.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the owner or manager of public business
premises to post notices in a conspicuous location by one or more signs
noticing the fact that said premises are protected by the terms of this
section.
(Ord. 1994-09, passed 8-8-94)
§ 72.08  PARKING AGAINST THE FLOW OF TRAFFIC.
   No parking shall be permitted on any street or alley in the town in which
the parked vehicle would be facing in a direction opposite the flow of traffic
in the traffic lane immediately adjacent to the parking space.
(Ord. 2015-2, passed 5-11-15)  Penalty, see § 71.99
FIRE LANES
§ 72.15  OBSTRUCTING FIRE LANES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall obstruct, or cause the obstruction of, any fire lane, either
by a parked or unattended vehicle or otherwise, except as such obstruction may
temporarily result from travel by persons or attended vehicles along, upon, or
across said fire lane.
('83 Code, § 6-7 II.)  Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Fire lane schedule, see
Ch. 75, Sched. III
SNOW REMOVAL AND EMERGENCIES
§ 72.25  GENERAL SNOW REMOVAL.
   A general snow removal period will be in effect throughout the town between
the dates of November 30 of the current year and April 1 of the following
year.  During this period, all on-street parking within the town shall comply
with the following parking plan:
   (A)   Parking only on the side of even house numbers on even-numbered days
of the month; and
   (B)   Parking only on the side of odd house numbers on odd-numbered days of
the month.
('83 Code, § 6-12 I.)
§ 72.26  PROCLAMATION OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   A snow emergency shall commence by executive order, determination, and
proclamation of the President of the Town Council, or, in his absence, by
action of the Town Marshal.
   (B)   The President or his substitute shall determine and proclaim a snow
emergency when, in his judgment, the circumstances warrant that action for the
public safety of the town.  Such snow emergency shall continue in effect until
the President determines that an emergency no longer exists and terminates the
emergency order.
   (C)   Publication and broadcast of the proclamation of a snow emergency
shall be carried out by means of a news release to the local news media.
('83 Code, § 6-12 II. A.)
§ 72.27  SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The following streets are designated as snow emergency routes:
      (1)   Third Street, from Wayne Street east to the town limits.
      (2)   Wayne Street, from Fourth Street north to the town limits.
   (B)   The first streets to be cleared upon a snow emergency proclamation by
the President of the Town Council shall be those streets so designated above.
('83 Code, § 6-12 II. B.)
§ 72.28  RULES AND REGULATIONS DURING SNOW EMERGENCIES.
   After a snow emergency has been declared and during its existence:
   (A)   No vehicle shall be parked on a snow emergency route;
   (B)   Any person who, during a declared snow emergency, owns or drives a
vehicle that becomes stalled or incapable of moving under its own power or who
leaves such vehicle unattended shall be in violation of the snow emergency
provisions of this subchapter.
('83 Code, § 6-12 II. C.)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.29  VIOLATION OF SNOW EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   Any police officer, upon discovering any vehicle unlawfully parked or
stopped in violation of this subchapter, may impound and remove such vehicle or
cause the same to be impounded and removed to any town-owned property, or to a
private garage or other authorized place.  Prior to removal, said officer shall
ticket the unlawfully parked vehicle, and the owner of the vehicle shall be
fined for that violation. The vehicle shall be impounded and retained at such
location until the towing and storage expense shall have been paid, and until
the fine assessed is paid and proof of all such payments is presented.
('83 Code, § 6-12 II. D.)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating §
72.15 shall upon conviction thereof be fined an amount not to exceed $25.
('83 Code, § 6-7 III.)
CHAPTER 73:  REGULATION OF CERTAIN UNLICENSED WHEELED VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Responsibility for others
   
73.02   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
73.03   Operating on public rights-of-way
   
73.04   Speed
   
73.05   When emerging from alley or driveway
   
73.06   Attachment to other vehicles prohibited
   
73.07   Safe operation
   
73.08   Riding of certain wheeled vehicles prohibited in business district
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   For Municipal Violations Bureau and prepayment of fines, see §
35.01
   Golf cart regulations, see
Ch. 76
§ 73.01  RESPONSIBILITY FOR OTHERS.
   The parent of any child, the guardian of any ward, and other persons
standing in loco parentis to another person, shall not authorize or knowingly
permit that child ward or other person to violate this chapter.
(Ord. 1996-5, passed 4-22-96)
§ 73.02  OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC- CONTROL DEVICES.
   Any person operating a skateboard, roller skates, roller blades, a bicycle,
a scooter, or a similar wheeled vehicle which is not licensed or required to be
licensed by the State of Indiana to travel on its public highways (hereinafter
in this chapter a “wheeled vehicle”) within the town, shall when so doing obey
the instructions of all traffic-control signals, signs, or other control
devices applicable to vehicles and pedestrians and the provisions of this
chapter, unless otherwise directed by a law enforcement officer.
(Ord. 1996-5, passed 4-22-96)
§ 73.03  OPERATING ON PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Every person operating a wheeled vehicle upon a public roadway shall
ride as near to the right-hand side of the public roadway as practical,
exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the
same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding wheeled vehicles upon a public right-of-way shall not
ride more than two abreast except on surfaces, if any, set aside for the
exclusive use of such wheeled vehicles.
   (C)   When a usable path for wheeled vehicles has been provided and marked,
persons operating such wheeled vehicles shall use that path and not use
adjacent property, including but not limited to adjacent areas of public
rights-of-way.
   (D)   No wheeled vehicle shall be used to carry more persons at one time
than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Ord. 1996-5, passed 4-22-96)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04  SPEED.
   No person shall operate a wheeled vehicle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Ord. 1996-5, passed 4-22-96)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05  WHEN EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   A person riding a wheeled vehicle, emerging from an alley, driveway or
building, shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending
across any alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all wheeled vehicles or
pedestrians approaching on that sidewalk and sidewalk area as applicable.
(Ord. 1996-5, passed 4-22-96)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06  ATTACHMENT TO OTHER VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person riding a wheeled vehicle shall attach him/herself to any other
moving vehicle upon a public sidewalk or other roadway.
(Ord. 1996-5, passed 4-22-96)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07  SAFE OPERATION.
   Wheeled vehicle operators shall not endanger themselves or others by
carrying objects that would materially obscure their vision or impede their
ability to stop safely and quickly.  In addition, wheeled vehicle operators
shall not suddenly and intentionally dismount a wheeled vehicle, thereby losing
control of that vehicle and causing a hazard to persons or property.
(Ord. 1996-5, passed 4-22-96)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08  RIDING OF CERTAIN WHEELED VEHICLES PROHIBITED IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   No person shall ride a skateboard or in line skates within the
business district of the town. The business district is defined for this
purpose as the area enclosed by Matilda Street, First Street, Main Street, and
Third Street, all in the town.
   (B)   Whenever any person is riding one of the wheeled vehicles enumerated
in (A) of this §
73.08 above upon a sidewalk outside of the town's business district, that
person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give an audible
warning signal before overtaking and passing that pedestrian.
(Ord. 1996-5, passed 4-22-96)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not more than $100 per violation.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer who observes a violation of this chapter
may, in addition to citing the alleged violator into court to answer for the
alleged violation,  seize  as evidence and hold until disposition of the case,
any wheeled vehicle used in the commission of the act deemed to be in violation
of this chapter.  If that violation results in the assessment of a fine and/or
court costs against the alleged violator, unless the court orders otherwise,
any wheeled vehicle seized and then held as evidence shall not be released from
custody until all court costs, fines and penalties, have been paid in full.
(Ord. 1996-5, passed 4-22-96)
CHAPTER 74:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop intersections
   
II.   Speed limits
   
III.   One-way public alleys
SCHEDULE I.  STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The following are designated as stop intersections, and traffic shall
stop as set out:
Traffic On Shall Stop For Traffic On
Traffic On         Shall Stop For Traffic On
Adams Street       College Street
Adams Street       Grover Street
Adams Street       Hendricks Street
Campbell Street    Eleventh Street
College Street     Jefferson Street
College Street     Third Street
Eighth Street      Main Street
Eighth Street      Nancy Street
Eighth Street      Wayne Street
Eleventh Street    Wayne Street
Fifth Street       Wayne Street
Fifth Street       Grover Street
(east of Grover)
Fifth Street       Grover Street
(west of Grover)
Fourth Street      Grover Street
Fourth Street      Hendricks Street
Fourth Street      Main Street
Fourth Street      Nancy Street
Frederick Street   Railroad Street
Grover Street      Railroad Street
Hendricks Street   Jefferson Street
Hendricks Street   Third Street
Jefferson Street   Grover Street
Jones Street       Nancy Street
Main Street        Ninth Street
Main Street        Third Street
Matilda Street     First Street
Matilda Street     Seventh Street
Monroe Street      Grover Street
Nancy Street       Fifth Street
Nancy Street       Ninth Street
Ninth Street       Nancy Street
(east of Nancy)
Ninth Street       Nancy Street
(west of Nancy)
Ninth Street       Wayne Street
Parkway Drive      East Jefferson Street
Parkway Drive      Hillcrest Drive
Railroad Street    Main Street
Railroad Street    Nancy Street
Second Street      Matilda Street
Second Street      Nancy Street
Seventh Street     Main Street
Seventh Street     Nancy Street
Sixth Street       Main Street
Sixth Street       Nancy Street
Tenth Street       Wayne Street
Third Street       Matilda Street
Van Malson Drive   Wayne Street Extended (CR 200)
Walnut Street      Jones Street
Walnut Street      Railroad Street
Washington Street  College Street
Washington Street  Grover Street
(east of Grover)
Washington Street  Grover Street
(west of Grover)
Washington Street  Hendricks Street
 
('83 Code, § 6-5 II.)  (Ord. 1985-9, passed 11-11-85; Am. Ord. 1987-7, passed
10-13-87; Am. Ord. 1991-5, passed 7-22-91; Am. Ord. 1995-7, passed 3-27-95; Am.
Ord. 2000-4, passed 6-26-00)  Penalty, see §
70.99
   (B)   Four-way stop intersections.  The following intersection are
designated as four-way stop intersections.  All traffic approaching the
intersection shall come to a complete stop before entering the intersection.
INTERSECTIONS
INTERSECTIONS
Fifth Street and Main Street
Fifth Street and Nancy Street
Fourth Street and Matilda Street
Jones Street and Grover Street
Second Street and Main Street
Seventh Street and Wayne Street
Third Street and Grover Street
Third Street and Nancy Street
 
('83 Code, § 6-5 I.)  (Ord. 1987- 7, passed 10-13-87; Am. Ord. 2001-1, passed
2-26-01)
Penalty, see §
70.99
   (C)   Three-way stop intersections.  The following intersections are
designated as three-way stop intersections.  All traffic approaching the
intersection shall come to a complete stop before entering the intersection.
INTERSECTIONS
Hillcrest Drive and Riverview Road
(Ord. 2000-6, passed 7-24-00)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II.  SPEED LIMITS.
   The maximum speed limit on the following streets shall be 20 m.p.h.
Street         Description
Grover Street      From Third Street to Adams Street
Grover Street      From Third Street south to town limits
Nancy Street      From First Street to Third Street
Railroad Street   From east town limits to Nancy Street
Seventh Street      From State Road #5 to Nancy Street
Wayne Street      From north town limits to Fourth Street
('83 Code, § 6-3 I.) (Am. Ord. 2002-3, passed 6-10-02)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III.  ONE-WAY PUBLIC ALLEYS.
   Vehicular traffic shall be permitted in one direction only on certain public
alleys in the town as follows:
   Description
   One-way westerly off of (away from) Wayne Street onto (toward) Matilda
Street between First and Third Streets.
   One-way easterly off of (away from) Wayne Street onto Main Street between
First and Third Streets.
(Ord. 86-3, passed 4-22-86; Am. Ord. 1987-7, passed 10-13-87)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No-parking zones
   
II.   Limited parking zones
   
III.   Fire lanes
Cross-reference:
   For Municipal Violations Bureau and prepayment of fines, see §
35.01
SCHEDULE I.  NO-PARKING ZONES.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any of the following described public
ways or parts of public ways at any time:
 
Street        Description                       Side
Second Street Matilda to west town limits       North
Second Street Nancy to Main                     North
Third Street  Nancy to College                  South side (except residential
                                                use)
Third Street  Nancy to Main                     South
Wayne Street  Railroad crossing to Ninth Street East
 
('83 Code, § 6-6 II.)  (Am. Ord. 1996-13, passed 6-24-96)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II.  LIMITED PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall park a vehicle for a period of time longer than
two hours between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday,
except for a public holiday, upon the following public ways, or parts of public
ways:
 
Street        Description                     Side
First Street  Wayne to Main                   North
Second Street 180 feet east from Wayne Street North
Wayne Street  First to Third                  East and west
 
      (2)   Handicapped parking shall be designated at the following areas:
 
Street                 Description                 Side
Tower Park Parking Lot Northeast quadrant of the   Two designated spaces in the
                       Tower Park                  southwest quadrant
Wayne Street           Corner of Second Street and East
                       Wayne Street
                       First parking space south
Wayne Street           of the corner of Third      East
                       Street and Wayne Street
 
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle for a period of time longer than 15
minutes between the hours of 7:30 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of any day, except Sunday
or a public holiday, upon the following public ways, or part of public ways:
 
Street        Description                                          Side
First Street  130 feet east from intersection with Wayne Street    South
Second Street West right- of-way line of Wayne Street west 40 feet North
 
(Ord. 1993-9, passed  - -93; Am. Ord. 1997-4, passed 4-28-97; Am. Ord. 2001-5,
passed 3-26-01; Am. Ord. 2005-19, passed 7-25-05)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III.  FIRE LANES.
   (A)    The following are designated as fire lanes, and shall be subject to
the regulations set forth in §
72.15.
   Description
   Certain alleys between First Street and Third Street intersecting and
perpendicular to Wayne Street, and for their entire length between Main Street
and Matilda Street.
('83 Code, § 6-7 I.)
   (B)   Penalty.  Any person violating this schedule shall upon conviction
thereof be fined an amount not to exceed $25.
('83 Code, § 6-7 III.)
CHAPTER 76:  GOLF CARTS
Section
   
76.01   Definitions
   
76.02   Unlawful operation of a golf cart
   
76.03   Requirement for local registration
   
76.04   Requirement of driver’s license
   
76.05   Requirement of financial responsibility
   
76.06   Time of operation; nighttime restrictions
   
76.07   Slow moving vehicle reflective sign
   
76.08   Place of operation
   
76.09   Traffic laws and ordinances
   
76.10   Occupants
   
76.11   No towing
   
76.12   Exceptions
   
76.13   Revocation of registration and eligibility to operate
 
   
76.99   Penalty
§ 76.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Has the meaning given in IC 9-25-4-1 et seq. as it
now reads or is subsequently amended.
   GOLF CART. A four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically designed
and intended to transport one or more individuals and golf clubs for the
purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course.
   OPERATE. To exercise any control over the function or movement of a golf
cart.
   SLOW MOVING VEHICLE REFLECTIVE SIGN. A triangle-shaped reflective sign of
the same type required under Indiana law.
   STATE HIGHWAY. Any street under the control of and maintained by the State
of Indiana - portions of State Road 5 and State Road 218.
   TOWN STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every publicly
maintained way when any part of the way is open to the use of the public for
purpose of vehicular travel within the corporate limits of the town. TOWN
STREET includes, but is not necessarily limited to streets, alleys, roads, and
thoroughfares.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 8-24-09)
§ 76.02  UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF A GOLF CART.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a golf cart on any town street except as
specifically authorized by this chapter. Any person who operates a golf cart in
violation of this chapter shall be subject to penalty as set forth in this
chapter.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 8-24-09)  Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.03  REQUIREMENT FOR LOCAL REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Local registration required.
      (1)   Any golf cart operated on a town street shall be registered with
the Town of Warren Police Department.
      (2)   The annual registration certificate will be valid only for the year
it is issued.
      (3)   The then current registration certificate shall be maintained on or
about the golf cart at all times that it is in operation.
   (B)   Registration fee.
      (1)   Each registrant shall provide the vehicle identification number and
proof of financialresponsibility, and pay a registration fee of $25 for each
golf cart to be registered for that year or the remaining portion thereof; or
      (2)   A temporary registration may be purchased for a period of time not
to exceed five consecutive days for a fee of $10.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 8-24-09)  Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.04  REQUIREMENT OF DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   The operator of a golf cart on a town street must have been issued a valid
driver’s license issued by the State of Indiana or any other state of the
United States of America and must possess that license while operating.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 8-24-09)  Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.05  REQUIREMENT OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   No person may operate a golf cart on any town street unless financial
responsibility is in effect with respect to the golf cart as provided under IC
9-25-4-4, as it now reads or is subsequently amended.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 8-24-09)  Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.06  TIME OF OPERATION; NIGHTTIME RESTRICTIONS.
   No golf cart shall be operated on a town street between the time of one-half
hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise unless the golf cart is
registered under this chapter and equipped with two headlamps, two tail lamps,
front and rear turn lamps, and rear brake lamps, all of which must be visible
from a distance of at least 500 feet.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 8-24-09)  Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.07  SLOW MOVING VEHICLE REFLECTIVE SIGN.
   No golf cart shall be operated on a town street unless the golf cart is
equipped with a properly displayed slow moving vehicle reflective sign clearly
visible from behind.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 8-24-09)  Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.08  PLACE OF OPERATION.
   No golf cart shall be operated on or at any of the following:
   (A)   Any town street or any portion of any town street where the speed
limit in effect at the place of operation is greater than 30 miles per hour.
   (B)   Any town street designated as a state highway - (portions of Wayne
Street (SR 5) or portions of First Street and Wayne Street (SR 218) - except to
cross any state highway at intersections perpendicular to the state highway.
   (C)   Any sidewalk, public trail, or public greenway not specifically
designated for use by a motor vehicle.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 8-24-09)  Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.09  TRAFFIC LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   The operator of a golf cart on a town street shall comply with all then
effective traffic laws, ordinances, rules and regulations adopted by the State
of Indiana and the town.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 8-24-09)  Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.10  OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   The number of occupants of a golf cart shall be limited to the lesser
of the number of persons for whom factory seating is installed on the golf cart
or six persons. The operator and occupants shall be properly seated at all
times and no part of the body of the operator or occupants shall extend outside
the perimeter of the golf cart while the golf cart is in operation; excepting
that the operator shall use proper traffic hand signals when required.
   (B)   Minor as operator. If the operator of a golf cart is under 18 years of
age, no more than two additional persons under the age of 18 are permitted to
occupy that golf cart.
   (C)   Infants prohibited. No one under the age of two  years shall be
permitted as an occupant of a golf cart on a town street.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 8-24-09)  Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.11  NO TOWING.
   No golf cart shall be used to tow any type of trailer or vehicle.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 8-24-09)  Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.12  EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of written authorization from the Salamonie Summer
Festival Board, golf carts operated in connection with that festival shall be
exempted from specified requirements of this chapter for operation within the
confines of that portion of the downtown and area in which activity is taking
place; except that the operator of golf cart must still be a licensed driver
and financial responsibility must be in effect with respect to the golf cart.
   (B)   The Warren Police Department shall have the authority to specifically
permit the use of golf carts by identified persons at other special events
without compliance with specifically specified provisions of this chapter;
provided however, that the permission must be written, the operator of a golf
cart must be a licensed driver, and financial responsibility must be in effect
with respect to the golf cart.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 8-24-09)  Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.13  REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION AND ELIGIBILITY TO OPERATE.
   Any usage operation, multiple violations, failure to maintain financial
responsibility, or failure to pay fines in accordance to this chapter may, as
reasonably determined by the Town Marshal or the Town Marshal’s designated
designee, may result in the revocation of a golf cart registration and the
violator’s eligibility to operate a golf cart within the town for up to one
calendar year.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 8-24-09)  Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to comply with this chapter will result in fines and penalties
as follows:
      (1)   First offense: $25 fine.
      (2)   Second offense: $50 fine.
      (3)   Each additional offense: $100 fine.
   (B)   An OFFENSE is defined as each separate violation of this chapter which
occurs while operating a golf cart.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 8-24-09)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   EXPLOSIVES
      
95.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
96.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animal Control Authority
   
90.03   License required
   
90.04   Animals at large prohibited
   
90.05   Impoundment regulations
   
90.06   Redemption of impounded animals; disposition when not claimed
   
90.07   Stray female dogs or cats to be spayed upon adoption
   
90.08   Impoundment fees
   
90.09   Dangerous animals to be confined
   
90.10   Female dogs and cats in heat to be confined
   
90.11   Keeping of wild animals restricted
   
90.12   Keeping of swine restricted
   
90.13   Rabies control
   
90.14   Right of entry
   
90.15   Interference with Animal Control Authority in the performance of his
duties prohibited
   
90.16   Records required
   
90.17   Exemptions
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   For Municipal Violations Bureau and prepayment of fines, see §
35.01
§ 90.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY.  The Animal Control Authority shall consist of at
least three members appointed by the Town Council, and including the Clerk-
Treasurer, the Town Marshal, and one member of the Town Council or the Humane
Society.
   ANIMAL SHELTER.  Any premises designated by action  of the town for  the
purpose of impounding and caring for animals found running at large in
violation of this chapter.
   AT LARGE.  Any animal shall be deemed to be at large when off the property
of the animal's owner and not under the control of a competent person.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES.  An animal has been exposed to rabies within the meaning
of this chapter if it has been bitten by, or has otherwise been possibly
infected by, any animal known to have been infected with rabies.
   HUMANE SOCIETY.  The Huntington County Humane Society, Inc., or its
successor-in- interest.
   KENNEL.  Any entity in the commercial business of breeding, buying, selling
or boarding animals other than as food for human consumption, within the town.
   OWNER.  Any entity keeping an animal or animals coming within the provisions
of this chapter.
   RESTRAINT.  An animal is under restraint within the meaning of this chapter
if controlled by a leash, at "heel" beside a competent person and obedient to
that person's commands, on or within a vehicle being driven or parked on the
streets, or within the property limits of the animal's owner or keeper.
('83 Code, § 3-15 I.)
§ 90.02  ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be implemented by the town's
Animal Control Authority.
   (B)   The President of the Town Council shall certify the appointment of the
Animal Control Authority, which certificate of appointment shall become a part
of the records of the town.
('83 Code, § 3-15 II.)
§ 90.03  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep, or harbor any animal within the town limits
unless such animal is licensed with the county or state under applicable
regulations, if any such regulations exist.
   (B)   Every owner is required to see that any license tag issued by a duly
constituted licensing authority for any animal is securely fastened to that
animal's collar, harness, or similar item, and said license shall be so worn by
the animal whenever the animal is outside.
('83 Code, § 3-15 III.)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04  ANIMALS AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   Owners shall keep their animals under restraint at all times, and shall not
permit any animals to be at large off the premises or property of the owners,
unless under the control of a competent person.  This section does not include
livestock and poultry, which is covered under IC 15-2.1-21-8.
('83 Code, § 3-15 IV.)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Editor’s note:
   IC 15-21.-21-8 was repealed by P.L. 2-2008, Sec. 83.
§ 90.05  IMPOUNDMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any unlicensed animal found running at large shall be taken up by the
agents of the Animal Control Authority, and impounded in the animal shelter in
a humane manner for a period of not less than three days, and may thereafter be
disposed of in a humane manner if not claimed by its owner.  An animal not
claimed by its owner before the expiration of three days shall become the
property of the Animal Control Authority and shall be disposed of at its
discretion except as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The Animal Control Authority may transfer title of all animals held by
it at its animal shelter to the Humane Society after the legal detention period
has expired and the animal has not been claimed by its owner.  In the event of
such transfer of title it is expressly understood that the Humane Society shall
pay for each animal's food until it shall be removed from the animal shelter.
   (C)   When an animal is found running at large, and its owner is known to
the agents of the Animal Control Authority, such animal need not be impounded,
but the agent may, at his discretion, cite the owner of such  animal to appear
to  answer charges of  violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Immediately upon impounding any animal, the agents of the Animal
Control Authority shall make a reasonable effort to notify the owner of such
animal so impounded, and inform such owner of the conditions whereby he may
regain custody of such animal.
   (E)   Animals other than dogs and cats shall be impounded when found running
at large within the town's limits and shall be disposed of in accordance with
applicable law.
('83 Code, § 3-15 V. A. - E.)
§ 90.06  REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS; DISPOSITION WHEN NOT CLAIMED.
   (A)   The owner shall be entitled to resume possession of any impounded
animal, except as hereinafter provided in the cases of certain animals, upon
compliance with the license provisions of the chapter and the payment of
impoundment fees set forth in §
90.08 below.
   (B)   Any animal impounded under the provisions of this chapter and not
reclaimed by its owner within three days, may be humanely destroyed by the
Animal Control Authority, or placed in the custody of some person deemed to be
a responsible and suitable owner, who will agree to comply with the provisions
of this chapter and such other regulations as shall be fixed by the Animal
Control Authority; provided that, if the animal is one as to which the
respective rights of the owner and the person in possession or custody are
determined by state law, such law shall be complied with.
('83 Code, § 3-15 VI.)
   (C)   Any animal impounded for being a public nuisance may not be redeemed
unless such redemption is authorized by court having jurisdiction.
   (D)   When in the judgment of the Animal Control Authority or its agents, an
animal should be destroyed for humane reasons, such animal may not be redeemed.
('83 Code, § 3-15 VIII E., F.)
§ 90.07  STRAY FEMALE DOGS OR CATS TO BE SPAYED UPON ADOPTION.
   No unspayed  female dog or  cat which has  been impounded by reason of its
being a stray shall be allowed to be adopted from the animal shelter unless the
prospective owner shall agree to have such female spayed, and post a  bond of
the current fees and charges to guarantee spaying, which bond shall be
forfeited if spaying is not accomplished within 30 days of adoption.
('83 Code, § 3-15 V. F.)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08  IMPOUNDMENT FEES.
   Any animal impounded hereunder may be reclaimed as herein provided upon
payment by the owner to the Animal Control Authority of the sum of the current
fees and charges for each day or part thereof, after the first four hours that
such animal is under the custody and control of the Animal Control Authority.
Impoundment fees set forth herein shall be collected for the town, and retained
by it to help defray the costs of keeping such animals and of enforcing this
chapter.
('83 Code, § 3-15 VII.)
§ 90.09  DANGEROUS ANIMALS TO BE CONFINED.
   The owner shall confine within a secure enclosure, every fierce, dangerous,
or vicious animal, and not take such animal out of such secure enclosure unless
the animal is securely muzzled and effectively restrained.  Each such enclosure
shall be at least 30 feet from any adjoining property.
('83 Code, § 3-15 VIII A.)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10  FEMALE DOGS AND CATS IN HEAT TO BE CONFINED.
   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be kept confined in a secure
enclosure, or in a veterinary such female dog or cat cannot come in contact
with another animal, except for breeding purposes.
('83 Code, § 3-15 VIII B.)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11  KEEPING OF WILD ANIMALS RESTRICTED.
   No wild animal may be kept within the town limits, except under such
conditions as shall be fixed by the Animal Control Authority, provided,
however, that wild animals may be kept for exhibition purposes by properly
licensed entities.
('83 Code, § 3-15 VIII C.)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12  KEEPING OF SWINE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association or corporation to
keep any swine within the corporate limits of the town within 75 feet of any
residence, business house, or office therein.  When kept at a greater distance
therefrom than 75 feet, the sty or pen in which the sane are kept shall be so
kept that no offensive odors will be emitted therefrom to the annoyance of the
public, or of any person or persons residing in the vicinity thereof; however,
it shall not be a violation of this chapter to keep such swine in stock pens
for such period of time as is actually required in marketing the same, said
pens to be kept in a reasonably clean and sanitary condition at all times.
('83 Code, § 3-15 VIII D.)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13  RABIES CONTROL.
   Every animal which bites a person shall be promptly reported to the Animal
Control Authority, and shall thereupon be securely quarantined for a period of
ten days, unless sooner certified in writing to be free of rabies by either the
County Health Officer or a person duly licensed to practice veterinary medicine
in the state, upon the payment of any impounding fees, and compliance with the
licensing provisions as provided in §
90.03.
('83 Code, § 3-15 IX.)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by this chapter and
to enforce its provisions, any agent of the Animal Control Authority is
empowered to enter upon any premises upon which a dog is kept or harbored and
to demand the exhibition by the owner or keeper of such dog or the license for
such dog.
   (B)   It is further provided that any agent of the Animal Control Authority
may enter the premises where any animal is kept in a reportedly cruel or
inhumane manner and may demand to examine such animal and to take possession of
such animal, when in his opinion it requires humane treatment which it is not
probable that the animal will receive if not taken into possession of the
Animal Control Authority.
('83 Code, § 3-15 XI.)
§ 90.15  INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY IN THE PERFORMANCE OF HIS
DUTIES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall forcibly interfere with, hinder, or molest any agent of the
Animal Control Authority in the performance of any duty of such agent, or
forcibly seek to release any animal in the custody of the Animal Control
Authority, or its agents.
('83 Code, § 3-15 XII.)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16  RECORDS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Authority to keep, or cause
to be kept, accurate and detailed records of the impoundment and disposition of
all animals coming into its custody.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Authority to keep, or cause
to be kept, accurate and detailed records of all monies belonging to the town,
which records shall be open to inspection at reasonable times by such persons
responsible for similar records of the town, and shall be audited by the town
in the same manner as other town records are audited.
('83 Code, § 3-15 XIII.)
§ 90.17  EXEMPTIONS.
   The requirements of this chapter with regard to licensing, shall not apply
to any animal belonging to a nonresident of the town and kept within the town
for not longer than 30 days in any calendar year, provided that all such
animals, while in town, be kept within a secure enclosure or vehicle, or be
under restraint.
('83 Code, § 3-15 X.)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined a sum not
to exceed $50.  Every day such violation shall continue shall constitute a
separate offense.
('83 Code, § 3-15 XIV.)
CHAPTER 91:  NUISANCES
Section
Purpose and Authority
   
91.01   Purpose; administration
   
91.02   Incorporation of state law
   
91.03   Authority to make inspections
General Provisions
   
91.10   Definitions
   
91.11   Conditions constituting public nuisance
   
91.12   Notice of violation
   
91.13   Citation for failure to abate nuisance
   
91.14   Abatement of nuisance by town
   
91.15   Procedure for collection of abatement and administrative costs
PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY
§ 91.01  PURPOSE; ADMINISTRATION.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect the public safety, health and
welfare and enhance the environment of the people of the town by making it
unlawful to allow any material growth of weeds, grass or other rank vegetation
to exist and that it is further unlawful to maintain a public nuisance. This
chapter is to be administered by the Town Marshal's Department.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 10-25-04)
§ 91.02  INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW.
   It is the intent of this chapter, adopted in accordance with the intent of
IC 36-7-10.1, to incorporate herein the requirements of IC 36-7-10.1 as they
now exist and are hereafter modified or superseded. It is the further intention
of this chapter to incorporate herein the requirements of IC 36-1-6-2
as it now exists and is hereafter modified to superseded.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 10-25-04)
§ 91.03  AUTHORITY TO MAKE INSPECTIONS.
   It is made the duty of all officers and employees of the town to report the
existence of nuisances to the Town Marshal's Department. For this purpose, law
enforcement personnel and other representatives designated by the Town Council
as to specific situations shall have the authority and obligation to visit,
enter into or upon any property or premises within the limits of the town in
accordance with the requirements of other applicable law to ascertain and
discover any nuisance and to make examination thereof.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 10-25-04)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.10  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER.  The record owner and any of record contract purchaser of the real
estate, all as shown by the records in the Huntington County Courthouse.
   RANK VEGETATION.  Plant life which grows excessively and unmanageably upon
the land and has no public value.
   WEED.  A plant held to have no material public value, which tends to
overgrow or choke out more desirable plants, and is usually growing, or has the
potential to grow, plentifully and detrimentally upon the land.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 10-25-04)
§ 91.11  CONDITIONS CONSTITUTING PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public
nuisance, those offenses which are known to the common law and the statutes of
Indiana as a public nuisance may, when found to exist within the town limits,
be treated as such and be proceeded against as provided in this chapter and
code, or in accordance with any other provisions of law. Whenever the word
"nuisance" is used in this chapter it refers to a public nuisance.
   (B)   No owner, occupant, tenant, or any other person having a substantial
interest in any improved or unimproved real property within the town, or any
agent thereof, shall permit or allow to remain on or within that property or
upon abutting public ways any materials, trash, garbage, debris, or any other
matter which is detrimental to the public health, comfort, safety, or the
aesthetic well-being of the community.
   (C)   The following conditions, but not limited only to those, shall
constitute public nuisances for the purpose of this chapter:
      (1)   Litter.
      (2)   Fallen trees, stumps, or dead trees.
      (3)   Boxes, appliances, furniture, household items, and tires, tools,
fixtures, related items, and long term storage of construction materiel.
      (4)   Demolition remains.
      (5)   Open excavations, uncovered or improperly covered holes, whether
lined or unlined, and dirt piles on any open or unfenced real property within
the town, including open foundations.
      (6)   Dressing of poultry or rabbits.
      (7)   Structure defaced with paint or wording.
      (8)   Any wastewater, filth, offal, garbage, trash, rubbish, animal
waste, or human excrement which is deposited, allowed, or caused to be upon any
property.
      (9)   Any substance which is caused or permitted to flow onto or be
deposited upon any public property or public way, except natural surface water
drainage.
      (10)   The erection of a dam or any other obstruction by a private party
which prevents the natural flow of water and causes it to collect or pool upon
any public property.
      (11)   Any dead animal.
      (12)   Any real or personal property which is infected with contagious
disease and is likely to cause an imminent health hazard.
      (13)   The placing or accumulation on or within any real or personal
property, or the permitting of same, of any matter which attracts or may
attract rodents, insects, or animals in such a manner as to create a health
hazard or unsanitary or dangerous condition.
      (14)   Any real or personal property used as a place of residence or
habitation for sleeping that is maintained in such a way as to be dangerous or
detrimental to life or health due to the lack of or defects in water, drainage,
heating, plumbing, or ventilation.
      (15)   Any dilapidated or condemned building, structure, or dwelling, or
remains thereof, so out of repair that it constitutes a fire hazard liable to
catch on fire or communicate fire to surrounding properties.
      (16)   Any noxious odors, smoke, dust, or noise that emits from premises
into the surrounding atmosphere which created an uncomfortable condition to
surrounding properties.
      (17)   The storage of explosive, combustible, or other inflammable
material which creates a safety or health risk.
      (18)   Any trees, shrubbery, weeds, snow, fences, or other material which
obstruct public ways or cause a visual barrier for vehicular traffic.
      (19)   Any junk automobiles, broken concrete, scrap metal, or automobile
parts.
      (20)   Any growth of weeds, grass, or other rank vegetation which is
either:
         (a)   Neglected, disregarded or not adequately managed or controlled,
cut, mown, or removed: or
         (b)   Has attained a height of eight inches or more; or
         (c)   Is actually or imminently detrimental to the public health,
safety, or welfare.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 10-25-04)
§ 91.12  NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Violations of the requirements of this chapter shall be addressed through
the Town Marshal's Department as follows:
   (A)   When a public nuisance is found to exist, the Town Marshal's
Department shall notify the property's owner to abate the nuisance according to
applicable law.
   (B)   The written notice to abate shall be served upon an owner by a law
enforcement officer by personal service, by certified mail, or by a "notice"
placard conspicuously posted on the property with a copy of the notice being
sent by regular first class United States mail, postage prepaid, granting a
minimum of ten calendar days to abate the nuisance. That notice shall state the
nature of the nuisance and the penalty for neglect or refusal to abate the
nuisance. That notice shall also contain: the address and the telephone number
of the Marshal's office, and a conspicuous notification that if the nuisance is
not abated within ten calendar days of that notice, the town may abate the
nuisance and seek recovery of its costs.
   (C)   Within ten calendar days of receipt of a notice to abate, the owner
may notify the town in writing of any specific objection to that notice. No
further abatement action shall be pursued until such action is directed by the
Town Council.
   (D)   If after the expiration of those ten days the public nuisance
continues unabated, and either no such objection has been made or an objection
has been made and considered by the Council and the
Council has so directed, further action shall be taken to abate that nuisance
in accordance with this chapter.
   (E)   For nuisance violations under IC 36-7-10.1, Removal of Weeds and Rank
Vegetation, if the initial notice of violation was provided by certified mail,
return receipt requested, or an equivalent service permitted under IC 1-1-7 to:
      (1)   The owner of record of real property with a single owner; or
      (2)   At least one of the owners of real property with multiple owners;
at the last address of the owner for the property as indicated in the records
of the County Auditor on the date of the notice, then a continuous abatement
notice may be posted at the property at the time of abatement, which will serve
as notice to the real property owner that each subsequent violation during the
same calendar year for which the initial notice of violation was provided may
be abated by the town without any additional notice to the property owner, at
the property owner’s expense, as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 10-25-04; Am. Ord. 2012-5, passed 7- - 12)
§ 91.13  CITATION FOR FAILURE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   Whenever the Marshal's Office, after the expiration of the notice,
determines that the property's owner, has failed to abate the nuisance, the
Town Marshal may cause a citation to be issued against that owner. For the
first offense the fine shall be $25, for the second offense the fine shall be
$100, for all subsequent offenses the fine shall be $200. Each subsequent day
of violation shall be considered a separate and chargeable offense.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 10-25-04)
§ 91.14  ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY TOWN.
   Upon failure, neglect, or refusal of any party to comply with the notice to
abate, in addition to the issuance of a citation under §
91.13, the department in the name of the Town Council may cause the town to
abate the public nuisance, and thereafter furnish the Council with a statement
of the costs of that abatement.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 10-25-04)
§ 91.15  PROCEDURE FOR COLLECTION OF ABATEMENT AND ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.
   (A)   The Town Council's designee shall make and issue to the owner a bill
for those abatement costs, including administrative costs. That bill shall be
delivered to the owner by any reasonable means including first class mail sent
to the address as it appears upon the tax duplicates in the records of the
County Auditor. The owner shall pay the amount of the bill to the town Clerk-
Treasurer's office within 30 days of the date of that delivery unless, within
those 30 days the owner notifies that office in writing of any objection to
that bill. If that notice is given, no further collection action shall be taken
until the Town Council acts on the objection.
   (B)   If the 30 days has expired and either no timely objection to the bill
has been made or the Town Council has disallowed any timely objection and the
bill is not paid in full, then the bill for all such costs which the owner has
failed to pay shall be certified to the County Auditor to be placed on the tax
duplicate for that property with the result that the amount so certified shall
be collected as delinquent taxes are collected.
(Ord. 2004-11, passed 10-25-04)
CHAPTER 92:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Tower Park
   
92.01   Description and name of Tower Park established
   
92.02   Tower Park rules and regulations
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Public Park Board, see §
32.01
TOWER PARK
§ 92.01  DESCRIPTION AND NAME OF TOWER PARK ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Description.  The following described real estate located in the Town
of Warren, Huntington County, Indiana, has been laid out and established as a
public park:
      (1)   Lots Numbered 13, 24, 25, 36 and 37 in Vestal C. Shaw's First
Addition to the Town of Warren; and
      (2)   Two tracts of land located in the Northeast Quarter of Section 29,
Township 26 North, Range 10 East, as follows:
         (a)   Commencing at a point on the north line of said Section 29, 50
rods west of the northeast corner of said northeast quarter of said Section 29;
the same being at the northwest corner of the said Woodlawn Cemetery land;
thence west on said north line of said Section 29, 20 rods to a corner stone;
thence south parallel with the east line of said Section 40 rods; thence east
parallel with the north line of said Section, 20 rods to the southwest corner
of said Woodlawn Cemetery lands; thence north on the west line of said Cemetery
land 40 rods to the place of beginning, containing five acres of land; and
         (b)   Commencing at a point one rod east of the southeast corner of
lot Number 12 in Vestal C. Shaw's First Addition to the Town of Warren,
Indiana; thence east 49 rods more or less to the west line of a five-acre tract
conveyed to George F. Penfold by deed, dated April 15, 1903 and recorded in
Deed Record "90", page 413 of the records of Huntington County; thence south
along the west line of said five-acre tract 30 rods more or less to the
southwest corner of said five-acre tract; thence west 49 rods more or less to a
point one rod east of the east end of Adams Street in said Shaw's Addition;
thence north to the east line of the alley line east of said Shaw's Addition 30
rods to the place of beginning, containing 9.19 acres, more or less.
   (B)   Name.  The above described real estate is hereby designated as "Tower
Park."
('83 Code, § 3-14 I., II.)
§ 92.02  TOWER PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Council has authority and responsibility for the custody,
management, maintenance, and control of Tower Park, and sets out the following
provisions with regard to aspects of the rules, regulations, management,
preservation, ornamentation, improvement, maintenance, and control of that
park.
   (B)   Except as otherwise authorized by duly constituted authority of the
town, in which instances such exceptions shall be prominently posted as soon as
practicable; and except such conduct violating the provisions of this chapter
also violates an existing statute of the state, the following rules and
regulations shall govern:
      (1)   Hours.  No person other than a duly constituted law enforcement
officer, town employee, or person in the company of such officer or employee,
and no vehicle other than one on town business, shall enter or remain in Tower
Park between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., excepting only in specific
instances of organized activity authorized by prior action of the Town Council.
      (2)   Nuisances.  No person in Tower Park shall at any time engage in any
activity which results in noise or other nuisance which interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of the ordinary comforts of human existence by persons who
are lawfully in Tower Park or lawfully upon property in the vicinity of Tower
Park.
      (3)   Alcoholic beverages.  No person shall use or possess alcoholic
beverages at any time in Tower Park.
      (4)   Speed limit.  Except as otherwise posted as authorized by the Town
Council, the speed limit in Tower Park for all vehicles and modes of
transportation is 15 miles per hour.
      (5)   Unsupervised children.  Children under the age of six years shall
not be in Tower Park, excepting only under the supervision of a    competent
adult.
      (6)   Littering.  No person shall throw, discard, or otherwise dispose of
refuse in Tower Park, other than in containers appropriately designated for the
deposit of such refuse.   
      (7)   Posting bills.  No person shall paint, print, post, or in any way
affix any poster, bill, or advertising matter of any kind within Tower Park
unless the consent of the Town Council is first obtained.
      (8)   Damaging town property.  No person shall willfully mark, disfigure,
injure, tamper with, displace, or remove any improvement or any part or
appurtenance thereof, or any signs, notices, or placards, whether temporary or
permanent, monuments, or other structures or equipment, facilities, or park
property without the prior consent of the Town Council.
      (9)   Damaging plants.  No person shall willfully cut, pluck, injure, or
destroy any plant growing in Tower Park without prior consent from the Town
Council.
      (10)   Discharging fire arms.  It shall be unlawful for any person to
discharge any firearm in Tower Park; provided that this provision shall not
apply to law enforcement officials in the lawful exercise of their duties.
      (11)   Congregating.  No group of persons shall congregate in a crowd of
three or more within Tower Park so as to obstruct, hinder, or annoy passersby
or occupants of Tower Park or adjacent premises, or as to interfere with the
activities normally carried on in Tower Park.
      (12)   Burning.  It shall be unlawful for any person to burn or cause to
be burned any substance in Tower Park, excepting only in grates installed by
the town in the Park for such purpose, or in other locations clearly posted for
burning pursuant to authority of the Town Council.
      (13)   Placement of tents or any other structures.  It shall be unlawful
to place any structure, including tents, within the confines of Tower Park
without prior consent from the Town Council. Such stipulations as set must be
addressed in application to the Council.
         (a)   All rules and regulations governing the park must be met.
         (b)   The structure may be erected the day of use and must be removed
immediately following. In no event shall the length of time exceed 24 hours
without the express permission of the Town Council.
         (c)   The structure shall be erected in a perimeter area of the park,
as any public use of Tower Park shall not be interrupted.
         (d)   For permission to be granted,  application to Council must
include exact time of placement, time of removal, and definition of site to be
used.
      (14)   No person shall operate a skateboard, rollerskates, roller blades,
bicycle, scooter, or similarly wheeled vehicle, or any vehicle, upon the Tower
Park Walkway, that area being defined as a pedestrian area encircling Tower
Park but not considered as developed for vehicular traffic.
      (15)   Smoking.
         (a)   The entire area of Tower Park shall be nonsmoking, which does
include bleachers and stands, play areas, playing fields and dugouts,
basketball or tennis courts, structures and any other such area(s), which would
also include parking lots, driveways and all general areas of Tower Park.
         (b)   Exceptions: Warren Conservation Club and any area(s) so
designated by authority of Town Council as a smoking area(s) by placement of
signage and/or other identifiers.
('83 Code, § 3-14 III. A.) (Am. Ord. 2001-3, passed 3-26-01; Am. Ord. 2002-18,
passed 10-14-02; Am. Ord. 2012-1, passed 1-9-12)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Cross-reference:
   For Municipal Violations Bureau and prepayment of fines, see  §
35.01
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
violation, and upon conviction of a first violation in any calendar year shall
be fined any sum not to exceed $50, and for the second and subsequent
violations in any calendar year shall be fined any sum not less than $50 and no
more than $100.
('83 Code, § 3-14 III. B.)
CHAPTER 93:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Definition
   
93.02   Construction and repair of sidewalks
   
93.03   Willful destruction of sidewalks, streets, or town property
   
93.04   Attachment of aerials, antennae, or radio systems to electric light
poles or crossarms prohibited
   
93.05   Permit to make excavations, move buildings, or place building materials
or other obstructions in streets required
   
93.06   Application for permit to move buildings
   
93.07   Street names and numbering of lots/property/improvements
Excavations; Street Obstructions
   
93.15   Application for excavation permit
   
93.16   Excavation requirements; deposit required
   
93.17   Street foundation requirements
   
93.18   Obstruction of street during remodeling of buildings
   
93.19   Display of lights and barriers during excavation or obstruction of
street
House Numbering
   
93.30   Establishment
   
93.31   Definitions
   
93.32   Designation
   
93.33   Display of numbers
Cross-reference:
   Parking and loitering on walkways, driveways and parking areas, see §
72.07
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01  DEFINITION.
   For  the  purpose  of  this  chapter,  the  following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STREET.  Include streets, sidewalks, and alleys.
('83 Code, § 3-8) 
§ 93.02  CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS.
   The owner or owners of any parcel of land abutting on any street or public
highway within the corporate limits of the town are required, when ordered by
the Town Council, to contract and maintain a sidewalk along such parcel of land
as hereinafter provided.
   (A)   Construction.  All sidewalks built within the town shall be
constructed of the materials determined by the Town Council by order,
resolution, or ordinance; and all sidewalks shall be constructed under the
direction of the Town Marshal and subject to the approval of Council.  The Town
Council, or any competent engineer or surveyor appointed by it, shall fix the
grade of all sidewalks built or replaced within the town.
   (B)   Repair.  All public sidewalks within the limits of the town, whether
constructed under special resolution or otherwise, shall be under the
supervision of the Town Marshal, and when any sidewalk is grossly out of repair
it shall be the duty of the Town Marshal to notify in writing the owner or
occupant of the adjacent parcel of land to repair said sidewalk. If said owner
shall fail or refuse to repair said walk within a reasonable time thereafter,
then the Town Marshal shall report the matter to the Town Council, and the
President of the Town Council shall call a meeting of the Town Council to
discuss the matter.  The Town Council shall proceed to rebuild, improve, or
repair said walk as provided by law, and shall charge the lot owner for the
costs thereof.
('83 Code, § 3-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03  WILLFUL DESTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS, STREETS, OR TOWN PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to willfully, carelessly, or
mischievously injure or tear up any sidewalk, street, alley, curbing, or any
other property owned by the town.
('83 Code, § 3-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04  ATTACHMENT OF AERIALS, ANTENNAE, OR RADIO SYSTEMS TO ELECTRIC LIGHT
POLES OR CROSSARMS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to attach or to permit to remain
attached any aerial or antenna of a radio system, or any other wire or thing
whatever to any pole, crossarm, or other part of the distribution system of the
electric light and power plant of the town; provided, however, that this
section shall not apply to any employees of a telephone company when acting for
their employer under an understanding with the officials of the town's electric
facility.
('83 Code, § 3-12)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   For Municipal Violations Bureau and prepayment of fines, see  §
35.01
§ 93.05  PERMIT TO MAKE EXCAVATIONS, MOVE BUILDINGS, OR PLACE BUILDING
MATERIALS OR OTHER OBSTRUCTIONS IN STREETS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any entity to make or cause to be made any
excavation in any street of the town for the purpose of constructing or
repairing any sewer or water main or for any other purpose whatever, to move
buildings, or to place building materials or any other obstruction in any
street of said town without first having procured a permit from
the Town Council or its agent appointed for that purpose.
('83 Code, § 3-8)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   For Municipal Violations Bureau and prepayment of fines, see  §
35.01
§ 93.06  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT TO MOVE BUILDINGS.
   Any applicant for a permit to move a building over any of the streets of the
town must set out in his application a description of the building to be moved,
its present  location, the place  to which it is proposed to move said
building, and the route to be taken in moving the same.  The applicant must
give notice to the Fire Chief and Town Marshal of the approximate time of
moving and the route to be taken in the moving of the building, and shall
notify the Fire Chief promptly upon the completion of the move that the street
or streets involved are clear.
('83 Code, § 3-8 II.)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.07  STREET NAMES AND NUMBERING OF LOTS/PROPERTY/IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   All streets, roadways, and thoroughfares within the town shall be
known, designated, and signed by one name only for their entire length within
the town's corporate limits as those limits exist from time to time, in
addition to any state highway designations as may be appropriate.  Streets
widened or extended, by annexation or otherwise, shall automatically and
without need for specification by the Town Council be named and designated in
accordance with the intent of this section.
   (B)   Town employees shall make periodic recommendations to the Town Council
with regard to obtaining and installing appropriate signs and lot/property/
improvement numbering systems as contemplated by this section, which
recommendations, if accepted by the Town Council, shall be implemented by those
employees.
(Ord. 1988-13, passed 8-22-88)
EXCAVATIONS; STREET OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 93.15  APPLICATION FOR EXCAVATION PERMIT.
   (A)   Any applicant for a permit to excavate in any street as provided in
this chapter shall pay a nonrefundable permit fee of $100 into the town's Motor
Vehicle Highway Fund.
   (B)   Additionally, in all circumstances where applicant is not under bond
approved by the town as sufficient to restore the street as provided herein,
that applicant shall place an additional $100 as a deposit with the Clerk-
Treasurer before that permit shall issue.
   (C)   An applicant for a permit under this section shall notify the Town
Superintendent and Marshal of the time of the excavation prior to commencing,
and promptly upon the street being restored and ready for travel shall again
notify that Superintendent and Marshal of that restoration and readiness.
(Am. Ord. 1994-11, passed 8-8-94; Am. Ord. 1996-8, passed 5- -96)  Penalty, see
§
10.99
Cross-reference:
   For Municipal Violations Bureau and prepayment of fines, see  §
35.01
§ 93.16  EXCAVATION REQUIREMENTS; DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   All excavations made in any street shall be done in a good and
workmanlike manner, and the excavation so made shall be carefully filled and
thoroughly tamped or otherwise settled to the satisfaction of the head of the
Street Department, who shall be notified before any part of the excavation has
been filled so that he can be present when the same is filled and it shall be
his duty to see that said work is done properly.
   (B)   The deposit provided for herein shall be held by the Clerk-Treasurer
for a period of 30 days after any tap has been made or other work done and the
street refilled and otherwise restored as provided herein and until the head of
the Street Department has inspected the same.  If, after 30 days, the head of
the Street Department finds that said street has not been repaired as provided
herein, he shall promptly restore the street to the same condition as the
balance of said street and shall keep an accurate account of the costs of
repairing said street and present the same, including the wages of the town
employees for the time they spent repairing said street, to the Clerk-
Treasurer.  Those costs shall be paid out of the owner's deposit, whereupon the
balance of that deposit, if any, shall be restored to the property owner
entitled to receive it.  If the head of the Street Department determines, upon
making the inspection at the end of 30 days, that said street has been properly
repaired, he shall so report to the Clerk-Treasurer and said property owner
shall be entitled to receive his deposit.
('83 Code, § 3-8 I. C.)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.17  STREET FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS.
   If an excavation is in a street with a hard surface laid  upon  a  concrete 
foundation,  or is in a concrete street, then the concrete foundation or
concrete street shall be excavated to a width of at least eight inches on each
side wider than the excavation in the earth below the surface of the street. 
After the excavation has been properly refilled, inspected and approved by the
head of the Street Department, said base, foundation, or concrete street shall
be rebuilt with good concrete and the street otherwise restored and put in the
same condition as before the excavation, as nearly as possible, and to the
entire satisfaction of the head of the Street Department or the Town Council. 
('83 Code, § 3-8 I. D.)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.18  OBSTRUCTION OF STREET DURING REMODELING OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Any applicant for a permit to construct, remodel, or repair a
building, or to use any part of a street for the deposit of building materials,
must set out a description of the building to be erected, remodeled, or
repaired, its location, materials to be used, approximate time required for
said improvement, and the probable cost thereof.  In no event shall a permit be
granted that will unduly blockade the street, or use more than one- half of the
width of the street for the deposit of building materials.  A permit shall not
be granted for more than a reasonable time, having regard to the character of
the improvement.
   (B)   The Fire Chief and Town Marshal shall be given notice before placing
any obstruction in any street, and shall be promptly notified when such
obstruction has been removed.
('83 Code, § 3-8 III.)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   For Municipal Violations Bureau and prepayment of fines, see  §
35.01
§ 93.19  DISPLAY OF LIGHTS AND BARRIERS DURING EXCAVATION OR OBSTRUCTION OF
STREET.
   It shall be the duty of the person, firm, or corporation obtaining a permit
to excavate or obstruct any street to keep red lights displayed around the
excavation or obstruction at night, and to construct and maintain barriers by
day to give the traveling public notice of the danger of traveling on said
street.
('83 Code, § 3-8 IV.)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   For Municipal Violations Bureau and prepayment of fines, see  §
35.01
HOUSE NUMBERING
§ 93.30  ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a uniform system of numbering all houses and
buildings situated on all streets, avenues, alleys and highways in the town.
(Ord. 106, passed - - )
§ 93.31  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STREETS.  This term shall also mean avenue, highway and alley.
   BUILDINGS.  This term shall also include house and house trailers.
   SQUARE.  That portion of a street between two intersecting and nearly
perpendicular streets
exclusive of alleys and diagonal streets, such diagonal streets being termed as
such with regard to the base line streets, as described in this subchapter.
(Ord. 106, passed - - )
§ 93.32  DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Wayne Street, running in a general northerly and southerly direction
shall be the base line for the numbering of all the buildings on all streets
running east and west.  First Street and Adams Street, both running in a
general easterly and westerly direction, shall be the base line for the
numbering of all buildings on all streets running north and south.  First
Street for streets running parallel to Wayne Street, and Adams Street for all
streets intersecting or running perpendicular to Adams Street.
   (B)   Each square shall be allotted 100 numbers.  Those buildings situated
to the left side of any street perpendicular and going away from any base line
street shall be allotted odd numbers, and those buildings situated to the right
side of any street perpendicular and going away from any base line street shall
be allotted even numbers.
   (C)   Each of the first squares east, north, west, and  south of the 
respective base line  streets shall be allotted the first 100 numbers, and each
successive square thereafter in each respective direction shall be allotted the
successive 100 numbers.  Buildings on streets which do not adjoin or connect to
the base line streets shall be allotted numbers, so far as is practicable,
equal to those numbers on the nearest parallel streets.
   (D)   The lowest numbers in each square shall be assigned to the building
nearest to the base line street having regard to division (B) as set forth for
the even and odd numbers.
   (E)   In assigning numbers on existing buildings, regard shall be had for
vacant land and for each 20 feet or any portion of the vacant land, one number
shall be reserved in its logical order and remain unassigned until such time as
a building is erected.
   (F)   For all buildings on circular or diagonal streets the plan for
numbering the same shall follow the plan as set forth in this subchapter as
nearly as practicable.
(Ord. 106, passed - - )
§ 93.33  DISPLAY OF NUMBERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner or his agent of each building to
apply at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for a number for the building. 
Whenever any new building shall be erected, it shall be the duty of the owner
or his agent to ascertain from the Clerk- Treasurer the number that shall be
placed upon the building. 
   (B)   The owner or his agent, upon being assigned a number for his building,
shall cause to be placed upon the building that number in a conspicuous place.
(Ord. 106, passed - - )  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94:  EXPLOSIVES
Section
   
94.01   Storage and transportation of explosives
§ 94.01  STORAGE AND TRANSPORTATION OF EXPLOSIVES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store, or drive or cause to be driven
any wagon or vehicle over any public street or alley of the town which contains
dynamite, other explosive compounds, or hazardous materials of any kind in
quantities in excess of 100 pounds.
('83 Code, § 3-11)
CHAPTER 95:  ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Exemptions
   
95.03   Responsibility, liability of vehicle owner
Impoundment, Redemption Procedures
   
95.25   Authority to impound
   
95.26   Inability to determine ownership; declaring vehicle abandoned
   
95.27   Notice tag to be placed on vehicle by police officer
   
95.28   Release to owner or lienholder of stored vehicle; required notification
   
95.29   Disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
95.30   Abandoned Vehicle Fund
   
95.31   Additional regulations may be enacted by town
   
95.32   Exemptions from liability
   
95.33   Abandoned vehicle on private or rental properties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally.
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for 24 hours.
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic on a public right-of-way.
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours.
      (5)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission, or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property.
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or an ordinance other
than IC 9-13-2-1 if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the
owner or the owner's agent within 20 days after the vehicle's removal.
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, is mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days. For purposes of this division (7),
a vehicle covered by a tarpaulin or other plastic, vinyl, rubber, cloth, or
textile covering is considered to be visible.
      (8)   A vehicle:
         (a)   That was repaired or stored at the request of the owner;
         (b)   That has not been claimed by the owner; and
         (c)   For which the reasonable value of the charges associated with
the repair or storage remain unpaid more than 30 days after the date on which
the repair work is completed or the vehicle is first stored.
(IC 9-13-2-1)
   OFFICER.
      (1)   A regular member of the State Police Department.
      (2)   A regular member of the town Police Department.
      (3)   A town Marshal or Town Marshal Deputy.
      (4)   A regular member of the county police force.
      (5)   An individual of an agency designated by ordinance of the Town
Council.
(IC 9-22-1-2)
§ 95.02  EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways.
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment.
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot.
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard.
   (E)   An antique vehicle registered and licensed under IC 9-18-12 (before
its expiration), a historic vehicle licensed under IC 9-18.5-34, or a military
vehicle registered under IC 9-18.1-8.
   (F)   A golf cart.
   (G)   An off-road vehicle.
(IC 9-22-1-1)
§ 95.03  RESPONSIBILITY, LIABILITY OF VEHICLE OWNER.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, the owner of an abandoned
vehicle or parts is:
      (1)   Responsible for the abandonment; and
      (2)   Liable for all of the costs incidental to the removal, storage, and
disposal; of the vehicle or the parts under this chapter.
   (B)   The costs for storage of an abandoned vehicle may not exceed $2,000.
   (C)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed, or
stored the vehicle, the person who previously owned the vehicle is not
responsible for storage fees.
   (D)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed, or
stored the vehicle, and proceeds from the sale of the vehicle covered the
removal, towing, sale disposal, and storage expenses, any remaining proceeds
from the sale of the vehicle shall be returned as described in this chapter or
IC 9-22-6, whichever is applicable.
(IC 9-22-1-4)
IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION  PROCEDURES
§ 95.25  AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND.
   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a person other than
the owner of the vehicle and the person cannot establish the right to
possession of the vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place determined by the officer.
(IC 9-22-1-5)
§ 95.26  INABILITY TO DETERMINE OWNERSHIP; DECLARING VEHICLE ABANDONED.
   If:
   (A)   The owner or lienholder under §
95.28 does not appear and pay all costs; or
   (B)   The owner of a vehicle cannot be determined by a search conducted
under §
95.29; the vehicle is considered abandoned and must be disposed of under this
chapter.
(IC  9-22-1-7)
§ 95.27  NOTICE TAG TO BE PLACED ON VEHICLE BY POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   An officer who finds or is notified of a vehicle or parts believed to
be abandoned shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the
following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer's name, public agency, and address and
telephone number to contact for information.
      (2)   That the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned.
      (3)   That the vehicle or parts will be removed after:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under IC 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle.
      (4)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for
all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle.
      (5)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under IC 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours, for any other vehicle.
(IC 9-22-1-11)
   (B)   If a vehicle or a part tagged under division (A) above is not removed
within the applicable period, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned
vehicle report of the vehicle or parts, including information on the condition
and missing parts. Photographs may be taken to describe the condition of the
vehicle or parts.
(IC 9-22-1-12)
§ 95.28  RELEASE TO OWNER OR LIENHOLDER OF STORED VEHICLE; REQUIRED
NOTIFICATION.
   If the properly identified person who owns or holds a lien on a vehicle
appears at the site of storage before disposal of the vehicle or parts and pays
all costs incurred against the vehicle or parts at that time, the vehicle or
parts shall be released. A towing service shall notify the appropriate public
agency of all releases under this division (A). The notification must include
the name, signature, and address of the person that owns or holds a lien on the
vehicle, a description of the vehicle or parts, costs, and the date of release.
(IC 9-22-1-8)
§ 95.29  DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   If the vehicle is a junk vehicle and the market value of an
abandoned vehicle or parts is less than:
         (a)   One thousand dollars; or
         (b)   If the town has adopted an ordinance under division (A)(1), the
amount established by the ordinance;
the towing service shall immediately transfer the vehicle to a storage yard. A
copy of the abandoned vehicle report and photographs, if applicable, relating
to the abandoned vehicle shall be provided to the storage yard. A towing
service or storage yard may dispose of an abandoned vehicle not less than 30
days after the date on which the towing service removed the abandoned vehicle.
A city, county, or town that operates a storage yard under IC 36-9-30-3 may
dispose of an abandoned vehicle to an automobile scrapyard or an automotive
salvage recycler upon removal of the abandoned vehicle. The public agency or
storage yard disposing of the vehicle shall retain the original records and
photographs for at least two years. If the vehicle is demolished, a copy of the
abandoned vehicle report shall be forwarded to the bureau by the automobile
scrap yard after the vehicle has been demolished.
      (2)   The Town Council may adopt an ordinance that establishes the market
value below which an officer may dispose of a vehicle or parts under division
(A)(1) above. However, the market value established by the ordinance may not be
more than 750.
(IC 9-22-1-13(a), (b)) 
   (B)   (1)   If in the opinion of the officer the market value of the
abandoned vehicle or parts is at least:
         (a)   One thousand dollars; or
         (b)   If the town has adopted an ordinance under division (A)(2)above,
the amount established by the ordinance;
the officer, before placing a notice tag on the vehicle or parts, shall make a
reasonable effort to ascertain the person who owns the vehicle or parts or who
may be in control of the vehicle or parts.
      (2)   After 72 hours, the officer shall require the vehicle or parts to
be towed to a storage yard or towing service.
(IC 9-22-1-14)
   (C)   If a vehicle or parts are in such a condition that vehicle
identification numbers or other means of identification are not available to
determine the person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle, the vehicle may
be disposed of without notice.
(IC 9-22-1-21)
   (D)   (1)   Within 72 hours after removal of a vehicle to a storage yard or
towing service under divisions (A) or (B) of this section, §
95.31, IC 9-22-1-16 or IC 9-22-6, the public agency or towing service shall
conduct a search of national data bases, including a data base of vehicle
identification numbers, to attempt to obtain the last state of record of the
vehicle in order to attempt to ascertain the name and address of the person who
owns or holds a lien on the vehicle.
      (2)   (a)   A public agency or towing service that obtains the name and
address of the owner of or lienholder on a vehicle shall, not later than 72
hours after obtaining the name and address, notify the person who owns or holds
a lien on the vehicle of the following:
            1.   The name, address, and telephone number of the public agency
or towing service.
            2.   That storage charges are being accrued and the vehicle is
subject to sale if the vehicle is not claimed and the charges are not paid.
            3.   The earliest possible date and location of the public sale or
auction.
         (b)   The notice must be made by certified mail or a certificate of
mailing or by means of an electronic service approved by the bureau.
Notwithstanding §
95.03, a public agency or towing service that fails to notify the owner of or
lienholder on the vehicle as set forth in this division (D)(2) may not collect
additional storage costs incurred after the date of receipt of the name and
address obtained.
(IC 9-22-1-19)
§ 95.30  ABANDONED VEHICLE FUND.
   (A)   An Abandoned Vehicle Fund is hereby established as required under IC
9-22-1-30.
   (B)   The costs for removal and storage of an abandoned vehicle or parts not
claimed by the person who owns or holds a lien on a vehicle shall be paid from
the Abandoned Vehicle Fund.  The charge payable by the person who owns or holds
a lien on a vehicle for towing, storing, or removing an abandoned vehicle or
parts may not exceed the limits established by ordinance of the town.  (IC 9-
22-1-25)
   (C)   (1)   The proceeds from the sale of abandoned vehicles or parts,
including:
         (a)   Charges for bills of sale; and
         (b)   Money received from persons who own or hold liens on vehicles
for the cost of removal or storage of vehicles;
shall be deposited in the town's Abandoned Vehicle Fund by the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   The costs incurred by a public agency in administering this chapter
shall be paid from the Abandoned Vehicle Fund.
      (3)   The Town Council shall annually appropriate sufficient money to the
fund to carry out this chapter. Money remaining in the Fund at the end of a
year remains in the Fund and does not revert to the General Fund.
(IC 9-22-1-27)
§ 95.31  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS MAY BE ENACTED BY TOWN.
   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts, the town may
employ personnel; acquire equipment, property, and facilities; and enter into
towing contracts for the removal, storage, and disposition of abandoned
vehicles and parts. The Town Council may established additional procedures, by
ordinance, to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
(IC 9-22-1-31)
§ 95.32  EXEMPTIONS FROM LIABILITY.
   The following are not liable for loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal or storage of a vehicle or parts under this
chapter:
   (A)   A person who owns, leases, or occupies property from which an
abandoned vehicle or its contents or parts are removed.
   (B)   A public agency.
   (C)   A towing service.
   (D)   An automobile scrapyard.
   (E)   A storage yard.
   (F)   An agent of a person or entity listed in divisions (A) through (E)
above.
(IC 9-22-1-32)
§ 95.33  ABANDONED VEHICLES ON PRIVATE OR RENTAL PROPERTIES.
   The procedure to be followed for abandoned vehicles on private or rental
properties, shall be as set forth in IC 9-22-1-15 through 9-22-1-18.
CHAPTER 96:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
96.01   Policy statement
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Unlawful practice
   
96.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
96.05   Discrimination in residential real estate related transactions
   
96.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
96.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
96.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
96.09   Exemptions
   
96.10   Administrative enforcement
§ 96.01  POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and IC 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 2-22-93)
§ 96.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON.  Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(IC 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION.  The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to IC 22-
9-1-4 et seq.  (IC 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT.  A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint
under IC 22-9.5-6.  (IC 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE.  An act that is unlawful under §§
96.04 through
96.08 of this chapter or IC 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING.  Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families. (IC 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILY.  Includes a single individual (IC 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS below.
   FAMILIAL STATUS.  One or more individuals (who have not attained the age of
18 years) being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody
of that individual or the written permission of that parent or other person.
The protection afforded against discrimination on the basis of familial status
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   Means, with respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of that person's major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment; or
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under IC 22-9.5-2-10.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addiction to a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of
the United States Code, (IC 22-9.5-2-10(b)); nor does the term include an
individual solely because that individual is a transvestite. (IC 22-9.5-2-10
(c))
   PERSON.  Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries.  (IC 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT.  Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the right to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.  (IC
22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 2-22-93)
Editor’s note:
   IC 22-9.5-2-10 (definition of “handicap”) was repealed by P.L. 99-2007, Sec.
224.
§ 96.03  UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
96.09 of this chapter and IC 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination
in the sale or rental of housing set forth in IC 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
96.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) and IC 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
96.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or who
was not the most recent resident of  that house  prior to the sale, the
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on that owner's behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of
the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family
houses at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house
shall be excepted from application of this section only if that house is sold
or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
96.04(C) of this chapter, but nothing in this proviso shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
   (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of those living
quarters as that owner's residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if that person:
      (1)   Has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as principal in
three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any
interest therein; or
      (2)   Has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent, other
than in the sale of that person's own personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale or
rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   Is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 2-22-93)
§ 96.04  DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
96.03 and except as exempted by §§
96.03(B) and
96.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial
status or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
familial status or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (F)   (1)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person; or
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (3)   For purposes of this subsection, discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford that person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and use excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford the
affected person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
March 13, 1991, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of those dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within those dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within those dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling:
               b.    Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and
other environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.    Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later
installation of grab bars; and
               d.    Usable kitchens and bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (4)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans With
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for buildings
and facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as “ANSI A117.1”) suffices to satisfy the requirements
of division (3)(c)3. above.
      (5)   Nothing in this division requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 2-22-93)
§ 96.05  DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term “residential real estate related
transaction” means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 2-22-93)
§ 96.06  DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against such a
person in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation,
on account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 2-22-93)
§ 96.07  INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of that person having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of that person having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
96.03 through
96.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 2-22-93)
§ 96.08  PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of that person's race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin and because that person is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchasing, renting, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because that person is or has been, or in order to
intimidate that person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because that citizen is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participation lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined not more
than $1,000, and if bodily injury or death results shall be fined not more than
$2,500.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 2-22-93)
§ 96.09  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions as defined or set forth under IC 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall
also be exemptions from the provisions of this chapter and exemptions shall
also include those activities or organizations set forth under divisions (B)
and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting  the  sale,  rental  or  occupancy  of 
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply
with respect to housing for older persons.
      (2)   As used in this section, “housing for older persons” means housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the Indiana Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program); or
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 2-22-93)
§ 96.10  ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
division (B) hereof shall be vested in the Executive Director of the City/
County Planning Department of Huntington, Indiana.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of IC 22-9.5-4-8, the Executive
Director of the City/County Planning Department of Huntington, Indiana, because
of a lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this
chapter  by  complainants  to  the  Indiana Civil  Rights Commission
(“Commission”) for administrative enforcement actions pursuant to IC 22-9.5-
6 and the Town Council and/or Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Warren, shall
refer all said complaints to that director as provided for under division (A)
of this section for purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate
relief.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Commission to further such purposes.
   (D)   That Executive Director or that director's designee, shall provide
information on remedies available to any aggrieved person or complainant
requesting such information.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 2-22-93)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS, AND HAWKERS
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   CABLE TELEVISION
CHAPTER 110:  TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS, AND HAWKERS
Section
   
110.01   Definition
   
110.02   Registration required
   
110.03   Filing of application
   
110.04   Revocation of certificate
   
110.05   Exceptions
   
110.06   Soliciting at certain times a nuisance
   
110.07   Entrance without permission a nuisance
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   For Municipal Violations Bureau and prepayment of fines, see §
35.01
§ 110.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS.  Individuals, who, acting for
themselves, or as agents of others:
      (1)   Go upon the public thoroughfares of the town calling on private
residences for the purpose of selling, or soliciting the sale of, merchandise
or services for immediate or later delivery; or
      (2)   Who transact any temporary or transient business within the town in
the way of selling merchandise or services by sample or otherwise.
('83 code, § 5-2 II.)
§ 110.02  REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   No persons shall engage in the activity of selling, distributing, or
soliciting orders for any product, merchandise, or service within the town
without first securing a registration certificate as provided in this chapter;
provided this chapter shall not apply to the sale of newspapers of general
circulation, nor shall it apply to the circumstances excluded under §
110.05.
('83 Code, § 5-2 I.)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03  FILING OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to engage in the activities set out in §
110.02, and any individual desiring to engage in the activities of a transient
merchant as defined in §
110.01, shall first file a written application, signed and sworn to by the
applicant, together with $5 to defray the cost of the processing of that
application and the administration of this chapter, with the Clerk- Treasurer,
at least two weeks prior to the time the applicant requests that the
registration become effective, which application form shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The applicant's name, home address, and local address, if any;
      (2)   The name and address or principal office of entity for whom the
applicant is authorized to conduct such activity; or a statement that the
applicant is engaged in such activity solely on his own behalf;
      (3)   A brief description of the type of literary material, or
merchandise, or services to be sold;
      (4)   A statement as to whether the applicant has been convicted of any
felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, and if so, the nature of the
offense and punishment assessed therefor; and
      (5)   A sample copy of each order or receipt form to be used if the
applicant wishes to solicit orders to be filled later.
   (B)   If, after the filing of the application, whether before or after the
issuance of a registration certificate, the information in the application
becomes inaccurate and the applicant or holder of a registration certificate
intends to or does continue activity thereunder, detailed written notice of
such change and the correct information shall be furnished to the Clerk-
Treasurer within one business day of the information becoming inaccurate.
   (C)   Upon the applicant personally appearing at the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer at least two weeks after such application has been filed, the Town
Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a registration certificate which shall be dated,
signed, and otherwise in a form to be determined by the Clerk-Treasurer;
provided, however, that the Clerk-Treasurer shall not issue any certificate
valid for a period of more than 90 days, and the Clerk-Treasurer shall not be
required to issue a certificate to any person who shall have been convicted of
any felony or misdemeanor within three years of the date of the filings of the
application, or to any person who has violated §
110.06 or
110.07, or whose registration certificate has heretofore been revoked.
('83 Code, § 5-2 III.)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04  REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   Any certificate issued under this chapter may be revoked by the Clerk-
Treasurer after notice and hearing, for any material misstatement contained in
the application, for violation of §§
110.06 or
110.07 or upon any subsequent conviction of applicant for any felony or
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
('83 Code, § 5-2 IV.)
§ 110.05  EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to any merchant who has regularly operated for
more than 30 days, and is still so operating from an established place of
business in the town, to commercial selling agents calling on businesses in the
town, or to temporary solicitation and sales by members of any service club or
nonprofit, charitable, religious or educational organization located in the
county who are selling without remuneration to themselves, and where the net
proceeds of said sales are to be used exclusively for religious, charitable, or
educational purposes.
('83 Code, § 5-2 V.)
§ 110.06  SOLICITING AT CERTAIN TIMES A NUISANCE.
   The practice of going to a private residence in the town by any person for
the purpose of soliciting orders for the sale, or selling of merchandise,
services, or literary materials, prior to 8:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m. on any
day, not having been requested to do so by the owner or occupant thereof, is
declared to be unlawful.
('83 Code, § 5-2 VI.)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07  ENTRANCE WITHOUT PERMISSION A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter any private residence in the
town over the objection of anyone present therein, or to fail to leave the
premises promptly upon request or demand, or to solicit for sales, or otherwise
molest or impede the progress of any person on the public thoroughfares of the
town.
('83 Code, § 5-2 VIII.)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   Any person engaging in any activity requiring a certificate as set out in
this chapter without first having obtained a certificate as herein provided or
who shall violate any of the other terms of this chapter shall be deemed guilty
of a violation of this chapter and shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not
less than $10 and not more than $50 for each offense.
('83 Code, § 5-2 VIII.)
CHAPTER 111:  AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Licenses for operation of amusements required
   
111.02   Application for license; fees
   
111.03   Issuance of application
   
111.04   License valid only at original address
   
111.05   Existing licenses
   
111.06   Condition for invalidity of license
   
111.07   Operating hours to conform to curfew laws
   
111.08   Gaming devices prohibited
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  LICENSES FOR OPERATION OF AMUSEMENTS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to harbor, maintain, or
operate for gain within the corporate limits of the town without first
purchasing and obtaining a license as provided for in this chapter any of the
following:
   (A)   Billiard tables;
   (B)   Pool tables;
   (C)   Snooker tables;
   (D)   Card tables;
   (E)   Pinball machines;
   (F)   Video electronic machines;
   (G)   Juke boxes;
   (H)   All other forms of amusement devices;
   (I)   Bowling alleys; and
   (J)   Shooting galleries.
('83 Code, § 3-9 I.)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEES.
   (A)   Any person or entity desiring to harbor, maintain, or operate any one
or more of the articles of devices hereinbefore mentioned, for gain, in any
public or private institution within the corporate limits of the town, shall
first make written application therefor to the Clerk- Treasurer, specifically
describing each article or device which he proposes to harbor, maintain, or
operate under the provisions hereof, subject to approval of the Town Council. 
('83 Code, § 3-9 II.) 
   (B)   The completed application for the licenses herein provided for shall
be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer, and a $10 license fee shall be paid at the
time of application to the Clerk- Treasurer, for each location to be licensed.
   (C)   Each license holder will be billed by the Clerk-Treasurer quarterly by
a charge of one-fourth the total amount owing per annum by each entity,
beginning January 1, 1984. If fees are not received by the Clerk-Treasurer
within 15 days after the billing date, said license may be immediately revoked
without notice.
('83 Code, § 3-9 III.)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03  ISSUANCE OF APPLICATION.
   Upon the payment of the license fee and fees herein provided, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall issue to the applicant a printed or written license, and the
same will constitute a permit authorizing the person therein named to harbor,
maintain, and operate for a period of one year from the date of said license,
but not to exceed January 1 of the year following issuance of the license.
('83 Code, § 3-9 IV.)     
§ 111.04  LICENSE VALID ONLY AT ORIGINAL ADDRESS.
   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter for all locations
mentioned herein shall bevalid if displayed in a prominent place within the
quarters but shall be invalid at any street address other than that specified
therein unless properly transferred by written authorization of the Clerk-
Treasurer. Such authorization may be obtained on written application for a fee
of $10 to be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer and shall extend for the duration of
the original license only.
('83 Code, § 3-9 VI.)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05  EXISTING LICENSES.
   Existing licenses for the articles or devices herein mentioned, heretofore
issued under any prior ordinance, shall be effective for the term specified
therein, in lieu of any license herein provided for.
('83 Code, § 3-9 VII.) 
§ 111.06  CONDITION FOR INVALIDITY OF LICENSE.
   The use of any article or device mentioned herein for any unlawful purpose
shall invalidate any license issued therefor, and the conviction of any person
who shall harbor, maintain, or operate same, or permit their use for any
unlawful purpose shall work an immediate revocation of any license or licenses
issued hereunder.
('83 Code, § 3-9 VIII.) 
§ 111.07  OPERATING HOURS TO CONFORM TO CURFEW LAWS.
   Operating hours for establishments licensed herein shall be in conformity
with the then existing curfew laws existing under the laws of the state, except
that no such establishment licensed herein shall operate prior to 12:00 noon on
Sundays.
('83 Code, § 3-9 IX.)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08  GAMING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any entity to keep or exhibit for gain, or to win
or gain money or other property, with any gaming table or machine of any kind
or description, or to allow the same to be used for any such purpose.
('83 Code, § 3-10.)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall harbor, maintain, or operate for gain any article
or device herein mentioned without first purchasing and obtaining therefor a
license as herein provided, shall, on conviction, be fined in any sum not to
exceed $250 and device fees.  ('83 Code, § 3-9 V.) 
   (B)   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this
chapter and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offender shall be fined not
more than $2500 for each offense of violation.  A separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 112:  CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
112.01   Regulation of cable television services; adoption of FCC regulations
   
112.02   Public hearings
   
112.03   Need to know; proprietary information
   
112.04   Cable TV Administrator
   
112.05   Duties of Town Council
§ 112.01  REGULATION OF CABLE TELEVISION SERVICES; ADOPTION OF FCC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   This town shall regulate the providing of cable television services
and equipment to the full extent permitted by applicable authority in a manner
which shall not illegally discriminate and is in accordance with the
requirements of due process.
   (B)   This town hereby adopts and shall hereafter follow the Federal
Communications Commission's regulations as prescribed in the Report and Order
in the Matter of Implementation of Sections of Cable Television Consumer
Protection and Competition Act of 1992: Rate Regulation, MM Docket 92-266, FCC
93-177 (Released May 3, 1993), as those regulations are now in force, and as
they may hereafter be amended, modified, and/or supplemented, and any provision
of this chapter or this town's regulations which are now or in the future not
in compliance with then applicable authority, including but not limited to the
aforesaid FCC regulations shall be deemed amended to the extent necessary to
come within the requirements of that authority, which amendment shall not
affect the validity or enforcement of the remainder of such ordinance and/or
regulations of this town.
(Ord. 15, passed 11-3-93)
§ 112.02  PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   Before making a final decision on a matter which the Town Council believes
to be of particular material consequence and general interest with regard to
the regulation  of cable  television service  within the town, the Town Council
shall conduct a public hearing in accordance with the provisions of state law
for such hearings.  At each such hearing a reasonable opportunity shall be
provided for consideration of the views of interested parties.
(Ord. 15, passed 11-3-93)
§ 112.03  NEED TO KNOW; PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.
   In requesting and utilizing information provided by a cable operator the
town shall not disclose to the public or others without a “need to know” as a
part of this process, any of that information which that operator has certified
in writing as proprietary or constituting a trade secret of that operator.
Provided however, the town reserves the right to require the operator to
reasonably validate any such claim of proprietary interest or trade secret, and
such claims as are found to be without foundation by the town shall be
considered by the town in evaluating whether that cable operator would
misrepresent as to other matters.
(Ord. 15, passed 11-3-93)
§ 112.04  CABLE TV ADMINISTRATOR.
   The person who holds the position of Clerk-Treasurer of this town from time
to time is hereby designated as the “Cable TV Administrator.”  That
Administrator is hereby granted full authority to act as the authorized agent
of this town to act for and on behalf of this town, and do all things which
that Administrator determines to be appropriate, to implement cable TV
regulation in accordance with applicable authority, excepting as herein
expressly reserved pursuant to the following section of this chapter.
(Ord. 15, passed 11-3-93)
§ 112.05  DUTIES OF TOWN COUNCIL.
   To the full extent permitted by applicable law the Town Council shall:
   (A)   Adopt, and from time to time thereafter modify, regulations governing
charges for basic cable equipment and services for the town.
   (B)   Conduct those public hearings required by §
112.02 of this chapter and other applicable authority.
   (C)   Finally approve or disapprove of cable television franchise agreements
and proposed modifications thereof.
   (D)   Finally approve or disapprove of the rates and charges of franchised
cable TV operators within the town.
   (E)   Order rate reductions and/or rollbacks where appropriate.
   (F)   Authorize and direct such filings and proceedings before the Federal
Communications Commission in the name of the town as may be appropriate.
   (G)   Authorize and direct enforcement of applicable customer service
standards of cable TV operators before courts or other third party decision
makers.
   (H)   Perform all other acts which, as a matter of law, may not be delegated
by the Council.
(Ord. 15, passed 11-3-93)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Discharge of firearms
   
130.02   Use of fireworks restricted
   
130.03   Soaping of windows prohibited
   
130.04   Curfew
   
130.05   Destruction of town-owned or public property
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parking and loitering on walkways, driveways and parking areas, see §
72.07
§ 130.01  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm within the town.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   FIREARM. Any weapon, whether loaded or unloaded, which will expel a
projectile by the action of an explosive and includes any such weapon commonly
referred to as a pistol, revolver, rifle, gun, shotgun, or machine gun. Any
weapon, which can be readily made into a firearm by the insertion of a firing
pin, or other similar thing in actual possession of the perpetrator or an
accomplice, is a FIREARM.
   (B)   Exceptions. It shall not be a violation of this section to discharge a
firearm under the following conditions:
      (1)   Acting in self- defense, as defined by state law.
      (2)   Law enforcement officers in the performance of their duties.
      (3)   An established firing range or educational program properly
supervised.
      (4)   Military functions, such as parades, funerals or firing blank
charges.
('83 Code, § 3-6) (Am. Ord. 2001-2, passed 3-26-01)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  USE OF FIREWORKS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to ignite or explode or
otherwise discharge in the town what are generally designated as fireworks at
any time except on such days as are generally recognized as appropriate
occasions for celebrations by use of fireworks, or when a fireworks display is
being held as part of a public entertainment or function.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful at any time to carelessly or purposely throw any
firecracker or other explosive, or to discharge any kind of fireworks in or
onto any automobile or other vehicle, or to purposely or negligently throw or
place the same where they may explode in close proximity to any person.
('83 Code, § 3-7)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03  SOAPING OF WINDOW PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to soap or wax any windows in
the town, or use any substance of any kind that will scratch the windows or
injure them in any way.
('83 Code, § 3-7)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   For Municipal Violations Bureau and prepayment of fines, see  §
35.01
§ 130.04  CURFEW.
   The town has considered the issue and has  determined that curfew times as
now established by IC 31-37-3-2 are later than reasonable for public safety
under the conditions found to exist in the town, and therefore the following
curfews shall apply within this town.
   (A)   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16 or 17 years or age to be
in a public place in the town:
      (1)   Between 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 10:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday;
or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday.
   (B)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 15 years of age to be in a
public place after 10:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his parent, guardian, or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by his parent, guardian, or
custodian; or
      (3)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A school sanctioned activity; or
         (c)   A religious event.
   (D)   The penalty for violation of this section shall be the same as
prescribed for the violation of the state- established curfew under IC 31- 37-
3-2, or its successor, as applicable at the time of that violator.
(Ord. 1986-7, passed 12-9-86)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05  DESTRUCTION OF TOWN- OWNED OR PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   The willful destruction, injury, writing upon or covering with any
substance which defaces or causes to be ineffective, or removal of, any town-
owned or other public property is declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to offer and pay a sum up to $25 for
information which has led to the arrest and conviction of one or more persons
for willfully damaging town-owned or other public property within the town. 
All such payments shall be reported to Council at the next meeting.
('83 Code, § 3-13 I.)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not otherwise provided shall be fined not more than $2,500.
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODE
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   [RESERVED]
      
153.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
154.   SUBDIVISION CONTROL
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING CODE
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Authority
   
150.04   Scope
   
150.05   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.06   Application for permits
   
150.07   Permit required
   
150.08   Fees
   
150.09   Review of application
   
150.10   Inspections
   
150.11   Entry
   
150.12   Stop order
   
150.13   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.14   Workmanship
   
150.15   Violations
   
150.16   Right of appeal
   
150.17   Remedies
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.30   Title
   
150.31   Purpose
   
150.32   Authority; adoption of standards
   
150.33   Administration and enforcement
Agency Designated for Building Regulation
   
150.40   Agency designated to administer building rules
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01  TITLE.
   This subchapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the Building Code, may be cited as such, and will be referred to
herein as "this code".
(Ord. 1992-14, passed - -)
§ 150.02  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide minimum standards for the
protection of life, health, environment, public safety and general welfare, and
for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Ord. 1992-14, passed - -)
§ 150.03  AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner of Huntington County, hereinafter referred to as
the Building Commissioner, after having been designated as the officer of a
single agency to administer and enforce this subchapter, is hereby authorized
in the name of the town to issue building permits, collect permit fees, perform
inspections, order correction of violations of this subchapter, and authorize
occupancy of buildings and structures within the corporate limits of the town
and upon all land outside of the town, and included in a certain unincorporated
tract contiguous to the town and located in Salamonie Township, Huntington
County, Indiana, and bounded by the centerline of certain roads, which roads
are: On the north County Road 900 South; on the east County Road 300 East; on
the south County Road 1100 South and State Road #218; and on the west Meridian
Road.  Further, all reference to the "town" in this subchapter shall be
construed where appropriate to mean the Town of Warren, and the aforementioned
unincorporated tract.  Applications  for such building permits  however,  shall
first be approved by the Town Council to indicate compliance with this
subchapter or other applicable ordinances of the town.
(Ord. 1992-14, passed - -)
§ 150.04  SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter apply to the construction, reconstruction,
alteration, erection, use, moving, occupancy and addition to all buildings and
structures, other than industrialized building systems or mobile structures
certified under IC 22-15-4, in the town and the unincorporated tract as
designated in §
150.03.
(Ord. 1992-14, passed - -)
§ 150.05  ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Building rules of the Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission as set out in the following Articles of Title 675 of the Indiana
Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by reference in this subchapter and
shall include later amendments to those Articles as the same are published in
the Indiana Register or the Indiana Administrative Code with effective dates as
fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards
         (b)   Indiana Building Code
         (c)   Indiana Building Code Standards
         (d)   Indiana Handicapped Accessibility Code
      (2)   Article 14 - One and Two Family Dwelling Codes
         (a)   Council of American Building Officials One and Two Family
Dwelling Code
         (b)   CABO One and Two Family Dwelling Code; Amendments
         (c)   Standard for Permanent Installation of Manufactured Homes
      (3)   Article 16 - Plumbing Codes
         (a)   Indiana Plumbing Code
      (4)   Article 17 - Electrical Codes
         (a)   Indiana Electrical Code
         (b)   Safety Code for Health Care Facilities
      (5)   Article 16 - Mechanical Codes
         (a)   Indiana Mechanical Code
      (6)   Article 19 - Energy Conservation Codes
         (a)   Indiana Energy Conservation Code
         (b)   Modifications to the Model Energy Code
      (7)   Article 20 - Swimming Pool Codes
         (a)   Indiana Swimming Pool Code
      (8)   Article 24 - Supplementary Fire Safety Rules
         (a)   Migrant Day Care Nursery Fire Safety Code
      (9)   Article 25 - Fuel Gas Code
         (a)   Indiana Fuel Gas Code
   (B)   Copies of the adopted building rules, codes and standards are on file
in the office of the Huntington City/County Planning Department.
(Ord. 1992-14, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2004-10, passed 10-11-04)
§ 150.06  APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   No building permit shall be issued for the foregoing purposes, unless the
application for a permit is accompanied by a plat or sketch of the proposed
location showing lot boundaries, and by plans and specifications showing the
work to be done.  In addition, a copy of a design release, issued by the State
Building Commissioner and the State Fire Marshal pursuant to IC 22-15-3-1,
shall be provided to
the Building Commissioner before issuance of a permit for construction covered
by such design release.
(Ord. 1992-14, passed - -)
§ 150.07  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A permit shall be obtained for the following.  All permits shall be issued
by the Building Commissioner, and all fees required therefore shall be paid to
the Huntington City/County Planning Department.
   (A)   A building permit shall be obtained for:
      (1)   Construction of new residential dwelling units and non-residential
buildings;
      (2)   Construction of additions to new residential dwelling units and
non-residential buildings including, but not limited to, rooms, porches, or
decks;
      (3)   Location or construction of accessory structures to residential
dwelling units or non-residential buildings including, but not limited to,
garages, carports, sheds, storage buildings, or satellite dishes;
      (4)   Replacement of any existing structure which, if new, would require
a building permit under this section;
      (5)   Construction of new roof projections or structural changes to a
roof;
      (6)   Location of a manufactured home outside of a licensed mobile home
park; and
      (7)   Work which requires state design release, including but not limited
to, interior commercial renovation.
   (B)   An electrical permit shall be obtained for:
      (1)   Construction of new residential dwelling units;
      (2)   Construction of new non-residential buildings, including additions
or accessory structures;
      (3)   Upgrade of power: installation of new service entrance conductor,
or relocation of service entrance conductor; and
      (4)   Temporary service connection.
   (C)   A plumbing permit shall be obtained for:
      (1)   Construction of new residential dwelling units; and
      (2)   Construction of new non-residential buildings, including additions
or accessory structures.
   (D)   A fence permit shall be obtained for a privacy fence.
   (E)   A swimming pool permit shall be obtained for:
      (1)   In-ground swimming pool; and
      (2)   On-ground swimming pool 13 feet, or over, in diameter for a round
pool, or eight feet by 16 feet, or over, for an oval pool, and 24 inches or
more in depth.
   (F)   All work done under any permit issued by the Building Commissioner
shall be in full compliance with all other town and Huntington County
ordinances pertaining thereto.
(Ord. 1992-14, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.08  FEES.
   (A)   Building permits. All applicants for building permits shall, prior to
the issuance of such permit, pay fees in such amounts as are specified below:
      (1)   Residential.
         (a)   New one-family dwelling               $0.04 per square foot of
gross floor area, or $80, whichever is greater
         (b)   New two-family dwelling               Per unit - $0.04 per
square foot of gross floor area, or $80, whichever is greater
         (c)   New multi-family dwelling               Per unit - $0.04 per
square foot of gross floor area, or $80, whichever is greater
         (d)   Residential additions                  $0.03 per square foot of
gross floor area, or $60, whichever is greater
         (e)   Location of a manufactured home            $60
         (f)   Structural change to roof               $25
         (g)   Deck, carport, satellite dish, open porch, enclose existing
structure      $30
         (h)   Re-inspection fee                  $20
      (2)   Commercial, industrial, or institutional.
         (a)   New commercial, industrial or institutional
            0—1,000 square feet of gross floor area         $100
            1,001—5,000 square feet of gross floor area         $150
            5,001—10,000 square feet of gross floor area      $200
            Over 10,000 square feet of gross floor area         $200, plus
$0.02 per square feet of gross floor area over 10,000
         (b)   Commercial, industrial or institutional additions, renovations
or alterations
            0—1,000 square feet of gross floor area         $100
            1,001—5,000 square feet of gross floor area         $150
            5,001—10,000 square feet of gross floor area      $200
            Over 10,000 square feet of gross floor area         $200, plus
$0.02 per square feet of gross floor area over 10,000
         (c)   Structural change to roof               $30
         (d)   Deck, carport, satellite dish, open porch, enclose existing
structure      $30
         (e)   Re-inspection fee                  $20
      (3)   Accessory buildings.
         (a)   Accessory structures on permanent foundation      $30
         (b)   Accessory structure not on permanent foundation      $20
         (c)   Structural change to roof               $30
         (d)   Re-inspection fee                  $20
         (e)   In-ground swimming pool               $50
         (f)   On-ground swimming pool               $30
         (g)   Fence                        $0
   (B)   Electrical permit fees. All applicants for electrical permits shall,
upon the issuance of such permit, pay fees in such amounts as are specified
below.
      (1)   Residential.
         (a)   New one-family dwelling               $50
         (b)   New two-family dwelling               Per unit - $50
         (c)   New multi-family dwelling               Per unit - $50
         (d)   Connection of service to a manufactured or mobile home   $20
         (e)   Additions or accessory structure            $20
         (f)   Upgrade, new service, relocation of service, alteration to
service   $20
         (g)   Re-inspection fee                  $20
      (2)   Commercial, industrial, or institutional.
         (a)   New commercial, industrial or institutional
            0—1,000 square feet of gross floor area         $100
            1,001—5,000 square feet of gross floor area         $150
            5,001—10,000 square feet of gross floor area      $200
            Over 10,000 square feet of gross floor area         $200, plus
$0.02 per square feet of gross floor area over 10,000
         (b)   Additions or accessory structures
            0—1,000 square feet of gross floor area         $100
            1,001—5,000 square feet of gross floor area         $150
            5,001—10,000 square feet of gross floor area      $200
            Over 10,000 square feet of gross floor area         $200, plus
$0.02 per square feet of gross floor area over 10,000
         (c)   Upgrade, new service, relocation of service         $35
         (d)   Re-inspection fee                  $20
   (C)   Plumbing permit fees. All applicants for plumbing permits shall, upon
the issuance of such permit, pay fees in such amount as are specified below.
      (1)   Residential.
         (a)   New one-family dwelling               $35
         (b)   New two-family dwelling               Per unit - $35
         (c)   New multi-family dwelling               Per unit - $35
         (d)   Addition or accessory structure            $20
         (e)   Re-inspection fee                  $20
      (2)   Commercial, industrial, or institutional.
         (a)   New commercial, industrial or institutional; additions or
accessory structures
            0—1,000 square feet of gross floor area         $30
            1,001—5,000 square feet of gross floor area         $40
            5,001—10,000 square feet of gross floor area      $50
            Over 10,000 square feet of gross floor area         $50, plus $0.01
per square feet of gross floor area over 10,000
         (b)   Re-inspection fee                  $20
(Ord. 1992-14, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2005-10, passed 4-11-05)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.09  REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Building Commissioner
shall review all building permit applications to determine full compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1992-14, passed - -)
§ 150.10  INSPECTIONS.
   After the issuance of any building permit hereunder, the Building
Commissioner shall make, or shall cause to be made, such inspections of the
work being done under such permit as in the inspector's judgement are
warranted.
(Ord. 1992-14, passed - -)
§ 150.11  ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Commissioner or his
duly authorized representatives may enter at reasonable times any building, 
structure or premises  in the town to perform any duty imposed upon him by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1992-14, passed - -)
§ 150.12  STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this
subchapter, the Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in
writing served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be
done, or upon the property where work is being done, and any such persons shall
forthwith stop such work until authorized by the Building Commissioner to
proceed with the work,
(Ord. 1992-14, passed - -)
§ 150.13  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure constructed after
the adoption of this subchapter shall be issued unless such building or
structure was constructed in compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter.  It shall be unlawful to occupy any such building or structure
unless a full, partial, or temporary certificate of occupancy has been issued
by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 1992-14, passed - -)
§ 150.14  WORKMANSHIP.
   All work on the construction or alteration of buildings and other structures
shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to accepted
standards and practices in the trade.
(Ord. 1992-14, passed - -)
§ 150.15  VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sub-lessee, or occupant, to erect, construct, alter, convert, use,
occupy, or maintain any building or structure in the town and the
aforementioned unincorporated tract or cause or permit the same to be done,
contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1992-14, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16  RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal the Building Commissioner's
decision first to the Board of Commissioners of Huntington County, and then to
the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, in accordance with the
provisions of IC 22-13-2-7.
(Ord. 1992-14, passed - -)
§ 150.17  REMEDIES.
   The Building Commissioner shall in the name of the town bring actions in the
Circuit or Superior Courts of Huntington County, for mandatory and injunctive
relief in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order or orders
made by the Building Commissioner, and any such action for mandatory or
injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the penalties
provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 1992-14, passed - -)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.30  TITLE.
   This subchapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the Unsafe Building Code of the town, may be cited as such, and
will be referred to herein as this code.
(Ord. 1992-12, passed 12-14-92)
§ 150.31  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this code is to establish unsafe building regulations for the
protection of the public health, safety, and general welfare.
(Ord. 1992-12, passed 12-14-92)
§ 150.32  AUTHORITY; ADOPTION OF STANDARDS.
   Pursuant to IC 36-7-9-3 (Acts 1981, p.1. 309, 28), IC 36- 7-9 et seq.,
entitled Enforcement of Building Standards, is hereby adopted and incorporated
by reference in this code as if fully set forth herein verbatim.
(Ord. 1992-12, passed 12-14-92)
§ 150.33  ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The Huntington City/County Planning Department is hereby authorized to
administer and enforce this code.  The Building Commissioner of Huntington
County, and other appointed designees, are hereby authorized and directed to
complete inspections of properties and enforce the provisions of this code and
applicable law.  The Board of Commissioners of Huntington County is the hearing
authority relative to this code.
(Ord. 1992-12, passed 12-14-92)
AGENCY DESIGNATED FOR
BUILDING REGULATION
§ 150.40  AGENCY DESIGNATED TO ADMINISTER BUILDING RULES.
   (A)   The Huntington City/County Planning Department is the single agency
designated to administer building rules and complete inspections within the
boundaries of the authority of the units of government which are parties
hereto.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner of Huntington County is authorized and
empowered to issue building permits, make inspections, order corrections of
violations, issue certificates of occupancy, and to perform such other
ministerial duties as are commonly performed in the execution of that office,
on behalf of the parties hereto.
   (C)   Any appeal to a decision by the Building Commissioner of Huntington
County shall lie first with the county executive pursuant to IC 36-7-8- 9, and
to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission as provided for in IC 22-
13-2-7.
   (D)   Any judicial remedy sought by the Building Commissioner of Huntington
County shall lie first with the county to enforce that commissioner's lawful
orders to obtain compliance with the building rules of the parties hereto, and
shall be brought to the county or Town Attorney, of the unit of government
within the boundaries of authority of which a violation occurs, for
disposition.
   (E)   Such permit fees that are collected by the Building Commissioner of
Huntington County shall be accounted  for and  deposited in the  General  Fund
of Huntington County and shall be considered full payment for any inspection
services provided by that office on behalf of the parties hereto.
   (F)   The Town Council shall, by resolution, indicate when approval is
needed by the Council prior to a building permit being issued.
(Ord. 1992-13, passed 12-14-92)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to
have committed an ordinance violation and, upon conviction, shall be fined not
more than $100 for the first violation, and not more than $200 for the second
and each subsequent violation.  Each day a violation continues after the
expiration of the time set forth by legal notice constitutes a separate
violation.
(Ord. 1992-14, passed - -)
CHAPTER 151:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Objectives
   
151.05   Definitions
   
151.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
151.07   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
151.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
151.09   Compliance
   
151.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.11   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
151.12   Interpretation
   
151.13   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
151.25   Designation of Administrator
   
151.26   Permit procedure
   
151.27   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.40   General standards
   
151.41   Specific standards
   
151.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
151.43   Critical facility
   
151.44   Standards for identified floodways
   
151.45   Standards for identified fringe
   
151.46   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes
   
151.47   Standards for flood prone areas
Variance Procedures
   
151.60   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
151.61   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
151.62   Variance procedures
   
151.63   Conditions for variances
   
151.64   Variance notification
   
151.65   Historic structure
   
151.66   Specific conditions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Indiana Legislature has in IC 36-7-14 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Town of Warren Commissioners, do hereby adopt the following floodplain
management regulations.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)
§ 151.02  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately floodproofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)
§ 151.03  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities.
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction.
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters.
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage.
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
   (F)   Make federal flood insurance available for structures and their
contents in the town by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)
§ 151.04  OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health.
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects.
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public.
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions.
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains.
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)
§ 151.05  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A ZONES,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are presented
below:
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown.
      (2)   ZONE AE and A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. (ZONE AE is on new and revised maps in place of ZONES
A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance
shallow flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths
are between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance
shallow flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between
one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic
analyses are shown within this zone.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure with a floor area
400 square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation, and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community's
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor, finished or
unfinished, sub-grade (below ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
the Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRAWL SPACE. The area inside an enclosed foundation area between the top of
the grade and the lowest horizontal structural member. CRAWL SPACE height shall
not exceed four feet and shall not be below grade on all four sides.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. Unstudied areas where flood hazards are undetermined, but flooding
is possible. Flood insurance is available in participating communities but is
not required by regulation in this zone.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate including
but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of wails and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings, or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure's
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSED FOUNDATION AREA. Any area consisting of three or more solid
foundation walls that create an enclosed area below the lowest floor.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA means any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD.)
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD.)
   FLOOD RESISTANT MATERIALS. Any building materials capable of withstanding
direct and prolonged contact with floodwaters without sustaining significant
damage. (See FEMA Technical Bulletin 2.)
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
floodprone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS, FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE, FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
ORDINANCE, and FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP. (As related to variances of this chapter.) The exceptional
hardship that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The
Board of Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and
peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is
not exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,
1997, will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR), and Letter of Map Revision based on Fill (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in
a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is
only issued by FEMA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations, and elevations.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision
by letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA's determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure.
      (2)   The top of the basement floor.
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure.
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars.
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a "recreational vehicle."
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929, a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the "start of construction"
commenced after the effective date of the community's first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993, a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT (1%) ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with
the letter A is subject to the 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community's FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community's participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD elevation at any location is
as defined in §
151.07. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE FLOOD, 1% ANNUAL
CHANCE FLOOD, and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in
floodprone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
town subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the town are
generally identified as such on the Huntington County, Indiana and incorporated
Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated June 2, 2015 as well as any future
updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency with the most recent date. (These areas are shown on a FIRM as Zone A,
AE, A1-A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to it's before damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements or any alteration
of a historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structures continued designation as a historic structure.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X zones shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X zones (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. (See definition for A ZONE.)
   ZONE B, C, and X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(ZONE X is used on new and revised maps in place of ZONES B and C.)
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)
§ 151.06  LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)
§ 151.07  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   This chapter's protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town shall be as delineated on the
1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of Huntington
County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas dated June 2, 2015 and the corresponding
Flood Insurance Rate Map dated June 2, 2015 as well as any future updates,
amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
with the most recent date.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town, delineated as an "A Zone" on
the Huntington County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map
dated June 2, 2015 as well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date,
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party disagrees with
the best available data, the party needs to replace existing data with better
data that meets current engineering standards. To be considered, this data must
be submitted to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for review and
subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community's known flood prone areas shall be according
to the best data available as provided by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)
§ 151.08  ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.09  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of chapter
ordinance and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.10  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)
§ 151.11  DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall be
considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)
§ 151.12  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements.
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body.
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)
§ 151.13  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the town, the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
or the State of Indiana, for any flood damage that results from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.25  DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The town Plan Commission hereby appoints the Executive Director of the
Huntington Countywide Department of Community Development to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein referred to as the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)
§ 151.26  PERMIT PROCEDURE.
   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically the following information is required:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   A description of the proposed development.
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams.
      (3)   A legal description of the property site.
      (4)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades.
      (5)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD.
      (6)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be elevated.
      (7)   A pre-construction elevation certificate for new construction,
additions to an existing structure or substantial improvements to a structure.
      (8)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted to DNR for
approval and then to FEMA as a Letter of Map Revision. (See §
151.27(B)(6) for additional information.)
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit for new construction,
addition to a structure or substantial improvement to a structure, the
applicant shall submit a pre-construction elevation certificate prepared by or
under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional
engineerand certified by the same, demonstrating the structure will be
sufficiently elevated.
      (2)   Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an elevated structure or
structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit
to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD
elevation of the lowest floor, as built. Said certification shall be prepared
by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by the same. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the lowest floor elevation survey data submitted. The applicant
shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is
allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said
corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the
project. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification
shall be at the applicant's risk.
   (C)   Finished construction. Upon completion of construction, a finished
construction elevation certification which depicts the "as-built" lowest floor
elevation is required to be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.27  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations.
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
151.44 and
151.46(A), and maintain a record of such authorization (either copy of actual 
permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment).
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit.
      (5)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway.
      (6)   Notify adjacent communities and the state Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA.
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and "as-built" elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter.
      (8)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community.
      (9)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished.
      (10)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance.
      (11)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
151.26.
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
151.26.
      (13)   Perform a minimum of three inspections to ensure that all
applicable ordinance and floodplain development requirements have been
satisfied: the first upon the establishment of the flood protection grade
reference mark at the development site; the second upon the establishment of
the structure's footprint/establishment of the lowest floor; and the final
inspection upon completion and submission of the required finished construction
elevation certificate. Authorized county officials shall have the right to
enter and inspect properties located in the SFHA.
      (14)   Stop work orders.
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (15)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of this chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.40  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood prone areas the following provisions are
required:
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at or
above the base flood elevation (BFE). Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that are in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   To the greatest extent possible, parking lots, driveways, and
sidewalks within the SFHA shall be constructed with permeable materials.
   (K)   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume of
space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the BFE
shall be compensated for and balanced by an equivalent volume of excavation
taken below the BFE. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the
volume of storage lost (replacement ratio of 1 to 1) due to the fill or
structure.
      (1)   The excavation shall take place in the floodplain and in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located.
      (2)   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to take
place outside of but adjacent to the floodplain provided that the excavated
volume will be below the regulatory flood elevation, will be in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located, will be
accessible to the regulatory floodwater, will not be subject to ponding when
not inundated by floodwater, and that it shall not be refilled.
      (3)   The excavation shall provide for true storage of floodwater but
shall not be subject to ponding when not inundated by floodwater.
      (4)   The fill or structure shall not obstruct a drainage way leading to
the floodplain.
      (5)   The grading around the excavation shall be such that the excavated
area is accessible to the regulatory floodwater.
      (6)   The fill or structure shall be of a material deemed stable enough
to remain firm and in place during periods of flooding and shall include
provisions to protect adjacent property owners against any increased runoff or
drainage resulting from its placement.
      (7)   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated and filled shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction or any site work; once site
work is complete, but before the actual start of construction, the applicant
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a certified survey of the
excavation and fill sites demonstrating the fill and excavation comply with
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.41  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §
151.40, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet. Construction or placement of a structure having a
floor area less than 400 square feet shall provide the following:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two exterior
walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every one
square foot of enclosed area).
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land).
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to it's before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred.
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days.
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage.
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
      (7)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community's first
floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential structures. New construction or substantial improvement of
any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor;including basement, a minimum of one foot above the FPG (three feet above
the base flood elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to
elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements
of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division
(D) below.
   (C)   Nonresidential structures. New construction or substantial improvement
of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure (or manufactured
home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated a
minimum of one foot above the FPG (three feet above the base flood elevation)
or be floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter wails
be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
division (D) below. Structures located in all "A Zones" may be floodproofed in
lieu of being elevated if done in accordance with the following:
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
151.27(B)(12).
      (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor a minimum of one foot above the FPG.
      (2)   Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls. It should be noted that constructing enclosed areas below the base flood
elevation may dramatically increase required flood insurance premiums. Designs
must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area).
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
         (f)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade.
         (g)   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction
in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device.
         (h)   Property owners shall be required to execute a flood openings/
venting affidavit acknowledging that all openings will be maintained as flood
vents, and that the elimination or alteration of the openings in any way will
violate the requirements of this division (D). Periodic inspections will be
conducted by the Floodplain Administrator to ensure compliance. The affidavit
shall be recorded in the office of the Huntington County Recorder.
         (i)   Property owners shall be required to execute and record with the
structure's deed a non-conversion agreement declaring that the area below the
lowest floor (where the interior height of the enclosure exceeds six feet)
shall not be improved, finished or otherwise converted; the community will have
the right to inspect the enclosed area. The non-conversion agreement shall be
recorded in the office of the Huntington County Recorder.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
      (2)   The fill shall extend 15 feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than 3 horizontal to 1 vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be a minimum
of one foot above the FPG.
      (6)   Fill shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements:
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site inside or outside an existing manufactured home park or subdivision; in
a new manufactured home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as
a result of a flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be a minimum of one foot above the
FPG and securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not been
substantially damaged by a flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes as stated earlier
in this section.
   (G)   Accessory structures.  Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures. Such structures must meet
the following standards:
      (1)   Shall not be used for human habitation.
      (2)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials.
      (3)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (4)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation.
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG.
      (6)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in division (D) above.
   (H)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement. To the greatest extent possible, above ground gas or liquid storage
tanks shall be located at or above the BFE.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.42  STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All new lots created after June 2, 2015 shall be located outside any
special flood hazard area.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (G)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.43  CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.44  STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
151.07 are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. The following are the only
permitted activities allowed within any designated floodway:
      (1)   Access roads to cross the floodway where there are no alternative
access ways which do not into the floodway.
      (2)   New construction for the replacement or substantial improvement of
an existing residential or commercial structure.
      (3)   New accessory buildings in conjunction with an existing residential
or commercial use.
   (B)   If the site is in an identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to forward the application, along with all
pertinentplans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources and apply for a permit for construction in a floodway. Under the
provisions of IC 14-28-1 a permit for construction in a floodway from the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources is required prior to the issuance of a
local building permit for any excavation, deposit, construction, or obstruction
activity located in the floodway. This includes land preparation activities
such as filling, grading, clearing and paving, and the like undertaken before
the actual start of construction of the structure. However, it does exclude
non-substantial additions/improvements to existing (lawful) residences in a
non-boundary river floodway. (IC 14-28-1-26 allows construction of a non-
substantial addition/improvement to a residence in a non-boundary river
floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in the floodway from the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources. Please note that if fill is needed to
elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior approval for the fill is
required from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.)
   (C)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or tetter of authorization (when applicable) has been issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in
the floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit,
provided the provisions contained in this subchapter have been met. The
floodplain development permit cannot be less restrictive than the permit for
construction in a floodway issued by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources. However, a community's more restrictive regulations (if any) shall
take precedence.
   (D)   No development shall be allowed, which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, that will adversely affect the efficiency
of, or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This adverse affect is
defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at least
fifteen-hundredths of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory flood
elevation under the project condition to that under the natural or pre-floodway
condition as proven with hydraulic analyses.
   (E)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the county shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 CFR § 65.12.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.45  STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in this subchapter have been met. The key provision is
that the top of the lowest floor of any new or substantially improved structure
shall be a minimum of one foot above the FPG.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.46  STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS/FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the 1%
annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade has
been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain anaiysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in this subchapter have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in this
subchapter have been met.
   (C)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the
regulatory flood more than fourteen-hundredths of one foot and shall not
increase flood damages or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.47  STANDARDS FOR FLOOD PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per this subchapter.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)  Penalty, see §
151.99
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 151.60  DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Town of Warren Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals and
requests for variances from requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)
§ 151.61  DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator
in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by
the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the Huntington County
Circuit or Superior Courts.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)
§ 151.62  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter; and
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community.
   (D)   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, where
applicable.
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage.
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development.
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area.
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment of
transport of the floodwaters at the site.
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)
§ 151.63  CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship.
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
151.44 or
151.46(A) may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
151.44 or
151.46(A) will require a permit from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
151.41 may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation. (See §
151.64.)
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request. (See §
151.64.)
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.64  VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the flood
protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases risks
to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)
§ 151.65  HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as an historic structure and
the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character and design of
the structure.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)
§ 151.66  SPECIFIC CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in this subchapter and the
purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or failure to
comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or conditions
of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All violations
shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in accordance with
the provisions of the zoning ordinance for the town. All violations shall be
punishable by a fine as allowed by law.
      (1)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the
violation continues to exist.
      (2)   The Huntington Countywide Department of Community Development shall
inform the owner that any such violation is considered a willful act to
increase flood damages and therefore may cause coverage by a standard flood
insurance policy to be suspended.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 4-13-15)
CHAPTER 152:  [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 153:  COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
153.01   Comprehensive Plan adopted by reference
§ 153.01  COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Comprehensive Plan for the town as adopted by Res. 1997-5 on 6-23-
97, is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code the same as if
set forth in full herein.
   (B)   The Plan is available for inspection at the Clerk- Treasurer's office
and at the offices of the Huntington Countywide Department of Community
Development.
(Res. 1997-5, passed 6-23-97)
CHAPTER 154:  SUBDIVISION CONTROL
Section
   
154.01   Subdivision Ordinance adopted by reference
§ 154.01  SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Subdivision Control Ordinance for the town as adopted by Ord. 2012-12 on
4-24-00, and as subsequently amended, is hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this code the same as if set forth in full herein.
   (B)   Two copies of the Subdivision Control Ordinance shall be filed with
and made available to the public at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer in the
town, and one copy shall be maintained in the office of the Huntington
Countywide Department of Community Development, Room 208, Court House,
Huntington, Indiana.
(Ord. 2012-12, passed 12-17-12; Am. Ord. 2014-1, passed - -14; Am. Ord. 2015-5,
passed 8-10-15)
CHAPTER 155:  ZONING
Section
   
155.01   Zoning Ordinance and Zone Maps adopted by reference
   
155.02   Appointment procedures for Board of Zoning Appeals
§ 155.01  ZONING ORDINANCE AND ZONE MAPS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Zoning Ordinance and Zone Maps for the town as adopted by Ord.
1997-10 on 6-23-97, and as subsequently amended, are hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this code the same as if set forth in full herein.
   (B)   Two copies of the Zoning Ordinance and Zone Map shall be filed with
and made available to the public at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer in the
town, and one copy of each shall be maintained in the office of the Huntington
Countywide Department of Community Development, Room 208, Court House,
Huntington, Indiana.
(Ord. 1997-10, passed 6-23-97; Am. Ord. 2000-3, passed 4-24-00; Am. Ord. 2002-
7, passed 7-22-02; Am. Ord. 2002-8, passed 7-22-02; Am. Ord. 2002-9, passed 7-
22-02; Am. Ord. 2002-10, passed 7-22-02; Am. Ord. 2005-4, passed 4-11-05; Am.
Ord. 2005-6, passed 4-11-05; Am. Ord. 2005-9, passed 4-11-05; Am. Ord. 2005-10,
passed 4-11-05; Am. Ord. 2006-3, passed 2-13-06; Am. Ord. 2006-4, passed 2-13-
06; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 2-13-06; Am. Ord. 2006-7, passed 2-13-06; Am. Ord.
2009-1, passed 3-23-09; Am. Ord. 2009-2, passed 8-10-09; Am. Ord. 2009-9,
passed 12-14-09; Am. Ord. 2012-11, passed 12-17-12; Am. Ord. 2013-5, passed 9-
9-13; Am. Ord. 2014-2, passed  - -14)
§ 155.02  APPOINTMENT PROCEDURES FOR BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   Pursuant to IC 36-7-4-901 and 36-7-4-902, the Town Council hereby
establishes the appointment procedures for the Board of Zoning Appeals for the
town:
   (A)   Two citizen members appointed by Town Council who are not members of
the Plan Commission;
   (B)   One citizen member appointed by Town Council who is a member of the
Plan Commission;
   (C)   One citizen member appointed by the fiscal body of the municipality
who is not a member of the Plan Commission;
   (D)   One citizen member appointed by the Plan Commission who is a member of
the Plan Commission.
(Ord. 1997-10, passed 6-23-97)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
III.   VACATIONS
      
IV.   CONTRACTS AND AUTHORIZATIONS
TABLE I:  ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing certain real estate commencing at the point of
1987-9   12-29-87    intersection of the northerly right-of-way line of State
                     Road #218 with the westerly right- of-way line of Grover
                     Street.
1987-10  12-29-87    Annexing certain real estate in Section 20, Township 26
                     north, Range 10 east in Salamonie Township.
1987-11  12-29-87    Annexing certain real estate in Section 19, Township 26
                     north, Range 10 east in Salamonie Township.
1990-1   4-23-90     Annexing certain real estate in Section 29, Township 26
                     north, Range 10 east in Salamoine Township.
                     Annexing certain contigious real estate commencing at a
                     point on the northerly right- of-way line of State Road
1991-11  12-19-91    #218, which is 395.5 feet due east of and measured at
                     right angles from, the centerline of Grover Street in the
                     town, extended southwardly to the said northerly right-
                     of-way line.
1994-15  11-28-94    Annexing certain real estate in Section 20, Township 26
                     north, Range 10 east in Salamonie Township.
1995-9   4-10-95     Annexing certain contiguous real estate in Section 20,
                     Township 26 north, Range 10 east in Huntington County.
                     Annexing certain real estate in part of the Northeast
2002-12  12-23-02    Quarter of Section 19, Township 26, Range 10 East of the
                     Second Principal Meridian in Huntington County.
                     Annexing certain real estate in part of the Northwest
2006-4   7-10-06     Quarter of Section 29, Township 26 North, Range 10 East,
                     Salamonie Township, Huntington County.
                    
 
TABLE II:  ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
1988- 4-25-  Rezoning part of the southeast quarter of Section 20, Township 26 north, Range
3     88     10 east from A-I Agricultural to I-1 Industrial.
1988-        Rezoning part of the south half of the northwest quarter of Section 20,
15    1-9-89 Township 26 north, Range 10 east, Salamonie Township, from R-1 Residential to
             B-2 Business.
1988- 1-9-89 Rezoning all of Lot 4 in Samuel Good's Plat of North Warren from R-
16           2 Residential to B-1 Business.
1989- 8-28-  Rezoning part of the northeast quarter of Section 29, Township 26 north, Range
4     89     10 east from A-1 to R-2.
1990- 7-9-90 Rezoning part of the northeast quarter of Section 29, Township 26 north, Range
2            10 east from A-1 to R-2.
1990- 11- -  Rezoning two tracts of land located on the east side of Grover Street.  Tract
4     90     One is rezoned from A-1 to R-3, and Tract Two is rezoned from A-1 to I-1.
1991- 8-12-  Rezoning a tract of land located on the northeast side of State Road 218 East
9     91     from A-1 to I-1.
1991- 9-9-91 Rezoning Lots 5 and 6 located at 120 South Nancy Street from R-3 to I-1.
10
1992- 5-11-  Rezoning a tract of land located east of Grover Street and north of State Road
3     92     #218 east from A-1 Agricultural to I-1 Industrial.
1998- 6-24-  Rezoning a tract of land located on the east side of State Road 5, south of
6     98     11th Street, from R-4 Residential Medium Density and POD Professional Office
             District to LB Limited Business.
1999- 6-14-  Rezoning a certain tract of land located along the south side of 11th Street,
2     99     east of State Road 5 from R-4 Residential Medium Density to POD Professional
             Office District.
1999-        Rezoning certain real estate located at the southeast corner of 12th Street
13    - -99  and Huntington Avenue from R-4 Residential Medium Density to GB General
             Business.
2002- 3-11-  Rezoning certain real estate located south of County Road 900S on the west
1     02     side of State Road 5 from A Agricultural and R4 Residential to R8 Residential.
2005- 11-14- Rezoning certain real estate located at 446 W. 11th Street from R4 Residential
22    05     to GB General Business.
2008- 5-30-  Rezoning certain real estate located at 206 N. Main Street from LB Commercial
4     08     to R8 Residential.
2009- 10-12- Rezoning certain real estate located on Third Street (1/2 of Lot 23 and Lot
8     09     12) from R8 Residential to CB Central Business.
2011- 8-18-  Rezoning certain real estate located at 1204 Huntington Avenue from R4
4     11     Residential to GB General Business.
            
 
TABLE III:  VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
7A       7-12-93     Vacating part of Wayne Street.
                     Vacating an alley running parallel to and halfway between
1993-13  9-13-93     7th and 8th Streets and connecting Wayne Street and
                     Matilda Street.
1994-4   6-13-94     Vacating an alley between Third Street and Tower Park.
1995-2   3-13-95     Vacating part of an alley running south from Jefferson
                     Street between Grover Street and Hendricks Street.
1995-6   4-24-95     Vacating a portion of unimproved Hendricks Street and
                     unimproved Madison Street.
2001-9   9-10-01     Vacating a portion of Sixth Street.
2003-1   8-11-03     Vacating a portion of Hendricks Street.
2005-1   2-28-05     Vacating an alley running parallel to College Street and
                     perpendicular to 3rd Street and Jefferson Street.
2005-15  - -05       Vacating a right-of- way containing .25 acres bounded by
                     College Street.
2005-18  7-25-05     Vacating a right-of- way containing .11 acres bounded by
                     Jefferson Street.
2010-1   6-14-10     Vacating segments of public ways now located on nine
                     tracts in John D. Pules 1st and 2nd Additions.
2014-3   5-12-14     Vacating a portion of undeveloped Hendricks Street north
                     of 5th Street and south of Jones Street.
                    
 
TABLE IV:  CONTRACTS AND AUTHORIZATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing the town and the Redevelopment Commission to
1997-21  12-22-97    proceed with the I-69 Phase II Project. (See §§
                     33.20,
                     33.21)
2004-1   2-9-04      Authorizing water revenue obligations to fund the
                     municipal water utility.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1983 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
State Cite Code Section
State Cite             Code Section
1-1-7                  91.12
3-8-5-2(a), (c)        31.01
3-8-5-10               31.01
3-8-6                  31.01
5-3-1                  33.32,
                       33.33
5-11-1-4(a)            33.58
5-11-1-27              33.58
5-11-1-27(j)           33.57
5-11-1-27(l)           33.57
5-11-10                33.33
5-14-3-1 et seq.       36.01,
                       36.05
5-14-3-4               36.06
5-14-3-5               36.03,
                       36.06
5-22                   33.30
5-22-3-4               33.33
5-22-7-5               33.33
5-22-7-8               33.33
5-22-8-3               33.31
5-22-11                33.31
5-22-12                33.31
5-22-18                33.33
5-22-18-1              33.33
5-22-18-5              33.33
8-16-3                 33.03
8-22-2                 33.06
8-22-3-1               33.06
8-23-4                 95.27
8-23-5                 33.06
8-23-30                33.06
9-13-2-1               95.01
9-18-12                95.02
9-18.1-8               95.02
9-18.5-34              95.02
9-22-1-1               95.02
9-22-1-2               95.01
9-22-1-4               95.03
9-22-1-5               95.25
9-22-1-7               95.26
9-22-1-8               95.28
9-22-1-11              95.27
9-22-1-12              95.27
9-22-1-13(a), (b)      95.29
9-22-1-14              95.29
9-22-1-15 - 9-22-1-18  95.33
9-22-1-16              95.29
9-22-1-19              95.29
9-22-1-21              95.29
9-22-1-25              95.30
9-22-1-27              95.30
9-22-1-30              95.30
9-22-1-31              95.31
9-22-1-32              95.32
9-22-6                 95.29
9-25-4-1 et seq.       76.01
9-25-4-4               76.05
14-28-1                151.44
14-28-1-26             151.44
15-2.1-21-8 (Repealed) 90.04
22-9-1-4 et seq.       96.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.       96.01
22-9.5-2-2             96.02
22-9.5-2-3             96.02
22-9.5-2-4             96.02
22-9.5-2-8             96.02
22-9.5-2-9             96.02
22-9.5-2-10 (Repealed) 96.02
22-9.5-2-11            96.02
22-9.5-2-13            96.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.       96.09
22-9.5-3               96.03
22-9.5-4-8             96.10
22-9.5-5               96.02
22-9.5-5-1             96.03
22-9.5-6               96.02,
                       96.10
22-13-2-7              150.16,
                       150.40
22-15-3-1              150.06
22-15-4                150.04
31-37-3-2              130.04
33-6-3-1 (Repealed)    35.01
35-47-2-3              32.40
36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B)     53.99
36-1-5-4               37.01
36-1-6-2               91.02
36-1-8-5               33.05
36-1-20.2              37.01
36-1-21                37.01
36-4-8                 33.33
36-5-4                 33.33
36-5-4-2               30.04
36-5-4-6               32.17
36-7-4-410(b)          32.65
36-7-4-901             155.02
36-7-4-902             155.02
36-7-8-9               150.40
36-7-9 et seq.         150.32
36-7-9-3               150.32
36-7-10.1              91.02,
                       91.12
36-7-12-6              32.55
36-7-14                151.01
36-7-14-1 et seq.      32.75
36-7-25-4              32.75
36-8-3-20              32.39
36-8-14                33.03
36-9-15.5-2            33.03
36-9-16-2              33.03
36-9-16-3              33.03
36-9-16.5              33.03
36-9-17                33.03
36-9-26                33.03
36-9-27-100            33.03
36-9-30-3              95.29
36-10-3-3 - 36-10-3-6  32.01
36-10-3-5(a)           32.01
36-10-3-21             33.03
36-10-4-36             33.03
                       
 
REFERENCES TO 1983 CODE
1983 Code Section 1992 Code Section
1983 Code Section 1992 Code Section
Ch. IV            50.01 -
                  50.03
2-1 I.            30.02 -
                  30.05
2-1 I.A.          30.15
2-1               31.01 -
                  31.04
2-1 II.           31.05
2-2               11.01
2-3               31.01
2-4               31.15
2-5               31.15
2-6               32.01,
                  32.02
2-7               34.01
2-8               33.50
3-1               32.15
3-1 I.            32.16
3-1 II.           32.17
3-1 III.          32.18
3-1 IV.A.         32.19
3-1 IV.B.         32.20
3-1 IV.C.         32.21
3-1 IV.D.         32.22
3-1 IV.E.         32.23
3-2               32.35
3-2 I.            32.36
3-2 II.           32.37
3-2 III.          32.38
3-3               93.02
3-4               93.03
3-5               50.04
3-6               130.01
3-7               130.02,
                  130.03
3-8 V.            52.13
3-8               93.01,
                  93.05
3-8 I.C.          93.16
3-8 I.D.          93.17
3-8 II.           93.06
3-8 III.          93.18
3-8 IV.           93.19
3-9 I.            111.01
3-9 II.           111.02
3-9 III.          111.02
3-9 IV.           111.03
3-9 VI.           111.04
3-9 VII.          111.05
3-9 VIII.         111.06
3-9 IX.           111.07
3-9 V.            111.99
3-10.             111.08
3-11              94.01
3-12              93.04
3-13 I.           130.05
3-14 I., II.      92.01
3-14 III.A.       92.02
3-14 III.B.       92.99
3-15 I.           90.01
3-15 II.          90.02
3-15 III.         90.03
3-15 IV.          90.04
3-15 V.F.         90.07
3-15 VI.          90.06
3-15 VII.         90.08
3-15 VIII.A.      90.09
3-15 VIII.B.      90.10
3-15 VIII.C.      90.11
3-15 VIII.D.      90.12
3-15 VIII E., F.  90.06
3-15 IX.          90.13
3-15 XI.          90.14
3-15 XII.         90.15
3-15 XIII.        90.16
3-15 X.           90.17
3-15 XIV.         90.99
3-15 V. A. - E.   90.05
4-1 I.B.          51.01
4-1 I.C.          51.02
4-1 I.D.          51.03
4-1 I.E.          51.04
4-1 I.F.          51.05
4-1 I.G.          51.06
4-1 I.H.          51.06
4-1 I.I.          51.07
4-1 I.J.          51.08
4-1 I.K.          51.09
4-1 I.L.          51.10
4-1 I.M.          51.11
4-1 I.N.          51.12
4-1 I.A.          51.14
4-1 I.O.          51.13
4-1 II.           51.25 -
                  51.34
4-2 I.A.          52.01
4-2 I.B.          52.02
4-2 I.C.          52.03
4-2 I.D.          52.04
4-2 I.E.          52.05
4-2 I.F.          52.06
4-2 I.J.          52.07
4-2 I.G.          52.07
4-2 I.H.          52.08
4-2 I.I.          52.09
4-2 I.K.          52.10
4-2 I.L.          52.11
4-2 I.M.          52.12
4-2 II.           52.50 -
                  52.53
4-3 I.            53.01
4-3 I.A.          53.02
4-3 I.B.2.        53.03,
                  53.04
4-3 I.B.3.        53.05
4-3 I.B.4.        53.06
4-3 I.B.5.        53.20 -
                  53.23
4-3 I.B.6.        53.35
4-3 I.B.7.        53.37
4-3 I.B.8.        53.38
4-3 I.B.9.        53.39
4-3 I.B.11.       53.41
4-3 I.B.12.       53.42
4-3 I.B.13.       53.43
4-3 I.B.14.       53.44
4-3 I.B.15.       53.40
4-3 I.B.16.       53.45
4-3 I.B.17.       53.46
4-3 I.B.18.       53.44
4-3 I.B.19.       53.07
4-3 I.B.24.       53.66
4-3 I.B.26.       53.08
4-3 I.B.27.       53.09
4-3 I.C.1.        53.75
4-3 I.C.1.(a)     53.76
4-3 I.C.1.(b)     53.77
4-3 I.C.1.(d)     53.79
4-3 I.C.1.(e)     53.80
4-3 I.C.2.        53.81
4-3 I.C.3.        53.82
4-3 I.C.4.        53.83
4-3 I.C.5.        53.84
4-3 I.C.28.       53.98
5-2 I.            110.02
5-2 II.           110.01
5-2 III.          110.03
5-2 IV.           110.04
5-2 V.            110.05
5-2 VI.           110.06
5-2 VIII.         110.07,
                  110.99
6-1               70.01,
                  70.02
6-2 II.C.         70.08
6-3               71.15
6-3 I.            Ch. 74, Sch. II
6-4               71.02
6-4 I.            71.01
                  Ch. 74, Sch.
6-5 I.            I,
                  II
6-5 II.           Ch. 74, Sch. I
6-6 A.            72.01
6-6 B.            72.02
6-6 C.            72.03
6-6 D.            72.04
6-6 E.            72.05
6-6 F.            72.06
6-6 II.           Ch. 75, Sch. I
6-6 III.          Ch. 75, Sch. II
6-7 I.            Ch. 75, Sch. III
6-7 II.           72.15
6-7 III.          Ch. 75, Sch. III,
                  72.99
6-8               70.04
6-9               70.05
6-10              70.06
6-11              70.07
6-12 I.           72.25
6-12 II.A.        72.26
6-12 II.B.        72.27
6-12 II.C.        72.28
6-12 II.D.        72.29
6-13              70.03
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
11-1993  9-27-93     31.05
16-1993  10-25-93    34.02
12-1994  11-4-94     32.75
8-1995   10-23-95    34.01
1997-5   6-23-97     153.01
8-1998   10-12-98    33.32
6-2004   7-26-04     33.33
1-2009   3-23-09     33.56
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1984-1   2-28-84     30.15
84-2     7-2-84      33.04
84-3     8-20-84     33.04
84-6     10-15-84    32.45
85-1     6-3-85      33.04
1985-2   6-17-85     33.04
1985-9   11-11-85    Ch. 74, Sch. I
85-10    12-17-85    30.15
1986-2   4-8-86      53.76,
                     53.81
86-3     4-22-86     Ch. 74, Sch. III
1986-7   12-9-86     130.04
106      - -         93.30 -
                     93.33
1987-2   5-12-87     52.25 -
                     52.33
1987-3   6-23-87     52.50 -
                     52.53
1987-5   8-25-87     53.76
                     71.01,
1987-7   10-13-87    71.02, Ch. 74, Sch.
                     I,
                     III
1987-8   12-7-87     30.15
1987-9   12-29-87    T.S.O. I
1987-10  12-29-87    T.S.O. I
1987-11  12-29-87    T.S.O. I
1988-3   4-25-88     T.S.O. II
1988-2   4-25-88     33.04
1988-6   5-23-88     32.18
                     32.40,
1988-9   8-8-88      70.15,
                     70.25
1988-12  9-8-88      34.02 - 34.06
1988-13  8-22-88     93.07
1988-15  1-9-89      T.S.O. II
1988-16  1-9-89      T.S.O. II
1989-4   8-28-89     T.S.O. II
                     54.01 -
1989-5   12-11-89    54.06,
                     54.99
1990-1   4-23-90     T.S.O. I
1990-2   7-9-90      T.S.O. II
1990-3   7-9-90      30.01,
                     31.01
1990-4   11- -90     T.S.O. II
1991-5   7-22-91     Ch. 74, Sch. I
1991-9   8-12-91     T.S.O. II
1991-10  9-9-91      T.S.O. II
1991-11  12-19-91    T.S.O. I
1992-1   1-13-92     30.15
1992-2   5-11-92     52.50 -
                     52.53
1992-3   5-11-92     T.S.O. II
1992-10  11-10-92    33.31
1992-12  12-14-92    150.30 -
                     150.33
1992-13  12-14-92    150.40
                     150.01 -
1992-14  - -         150.17,
                     150.99
1992-15  12-14-92    34.20 - 34.27
1992-17  12-14-92    34.03 - 34.07
1992-18  12-14-92    31.05
1993-1   2-22-93     Ch. 96
1993-7   5-3-93      54.02 -
                     54.04
7A       7-12-93     T.S.O. III
1993-9   - -93       Ch. 75, Sch. II
1993-13  9-13-93     T.S.O. III
15       11-3-93     Ch. 112
1994-1   2-14-94     51.34,
                     51.35
1994-4   6-13-94     T.S.O. III
1994-5   6-21-94     52.50
1994-7   7-11-94     33.03
1994-9   8-8-94      72.07
1994-10  8-8-94      53.76
1994-11  8-8-94      93.15
1994-13  11-14-94    54.02,
                     54.03
1994-15  11-28-94    T.S.O. I
1995-2   3-13-95     T.S.O. III
1995-6   4-24-95     T.S.O. III
1995-7   3-27-85     Ch. 74, Sch. I
1995-8   4-10-95     53.76
1995-9   4-10-95     T.S.O. I
1995-13  7-24-95     51.15
1995-20  10-25-95    30.15
1995-23  12-11-95    31.05
1995-24  12-19-95    31.05
1996-1   2-12-96     53.76
1996-2   2-26-96     33.52
                     51.29,
1996-3   2-26-96     51.31,
                     51.32,
                     51.36
                     73.01 -
1996-5   4-22-96     73.08,
                     73.99
1996-6   4-8-96      33.07
1996-7   4-8-96      33.53
1996-8   5- -96      93.15
1996-9   5- -96      52.53
1996-13  6-24-96     Ch. 75, Sch. I
1996-15  12-23-96    34.16 -
                     34.19
1996-16  12-23-96    34.30
1996-17  12-23-96    34.45 -
                     34.48
1996-18  12-9-96     33.51
1997-1   2-24-97     32.65
1997-3   - -97       30.15
1997-4   4-28-97     Ch. 75, Sch. II
1997-7   5-12-97     34.15
1997-8   5-27-97     53.02,
                     53.36
1997-10  6-23-97     155.01,
                     155.02
1997-20  1-12-98     31.05
                     33.20,
1997-21  12-22-97    33.21,
                     T.S.O. IV
1998-3   4-27-98     54.04
1998-4   6-24-98     52.54
1998-6   6-24-98     T.S.O. II
1998-7   6-24-98     33.30,
                     33.31
1998-8   7-13-98     34.02
1998-9   7-27-98     52.53
1998-10  8-10-98     35.01
1998-11  9-14-98     30.01
1998-12  8-24-98     32.39
1998-19  11-9-98     52.54
1999-2   6-14-99     T.S.O. II
1999-3   8-23-99     33.51
1999-6   10-11-99    70.25
1999-7   10-11-99    32.36
1999-13  - -99       T.S.O. II
2000-4   6-26-00     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2000-6   7-24-00     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2000-9   10-9-00     53.07
2001-1   2-26-01     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2001-2   3-26-01     130.01
2001-3   3-26-01     92.02
2001-5   3-26-01     Ch. 75, Sch. II
2001-6   4-9-01      33.02
2001-7   7-23-01     33.08
2001-9   9-10-01     T.S.O. III
2001-10  9-10-01     30.01
2001-16  12-21-01    33.05
2002-1   3-11-02     T.S.O. II
2002-3   6-10-02     Ch. 74, Sch. II
                     36.01 -
2002-4   7-10-02     36.09,
                     36.99
2002-12  12-23-02    T.S.O. I
2002-13  9-9-02      53.76
2002-18  10-14-02    92.02
2003-1   8-11-03     T.S.O. III
2003-2   8-25-03     52.54
2004-1   2-9-04      T.S.O. IV
2004-3   3-22-04     33.02
2004-9   9-13-04     51.24,
                     53.74
2004-10  10-11-04    150.05
                     91.01 -
2004-11  10-25-04    91.03,
                     91.10 -
                     91.15
2004-12  10-25-04    52.50
2005-1   2-28-05     T.S.O. III
2005-14  3-14-05     31.05
2005-13  3-28-05     52.53
2005-4   4-11-05     155.01
2005-6   4-11-05     155.01
2005-9   4-11-05     155.01
2005-10  4-11-05     155.01
2005-12  4-11-05     150.08
2005-15  - -05       T.S.O. III
2005-18  7-25-05     T.S.O. III
2005-19  7-25-05     Ch. 75, Sch. II
2005-20  7-25-05     33.01
2005-22  11-14-05    T.S.O. II
2006-3   2-13-06     155.01
2006-4   2-13-06     155.01
2006-3   4- -06      33.54
2006-5   2-13-06     155.01
2006-7   2-13-06     155.01
2006-4   7-10-06     T.S.O. I
                     32.15,
                     32.16,
2006-14  10-9-06     32.18,
                     32.20,
                     32.21
2007-3   5-14-07     34.19
2007-11  12-20-07    33.55
2008-4   5-30-08     T.S.O. II
2009-1   3-23-09     155.01
2009-2   8-10-09     155.01
                     76.01 -
2009-3   8-24-09     76.13,
                     76.99
2009-8   10-12-09    T.S.O. II
2009-9   12-14-09    155.01
2010-1   6-14-10     T.S.O. III
2010-2   6-14-10     33.03
2011-4   8-18-11     T.S.O. II
2012-1   1-9-12      92.02
2012-1   6-6-12      37.01 -
                     37.03
2012-2   7- -12      91.12
2012-11  12-17-12    155.01
2012-12  12-17-12    154.01
2013-5   9-9-13      155.01
2014-1   - -14       154.01
2014-2   - -14       155.01
2014-3   5-12-14     T.S.O. III
                     151.01 -
                     151.13,
                     151.25 -
                     151.27,
2015-1   4-13-15     151.40 -
                     151.47,
                     151.60 -
                     151.66,
                     151.99
2015-2   5-11-15     72.08
2015-3   5-11-15     53.76
2015-4   5-11-15     52.50
2015-5   8-10-15     154.01
2016-1   3-14-16     33.57
2016-3   6-13-16     33.06
2016-4   6-13-16     33.58
                     53.02,
                     53.36,
                     53.60 -
2016-2   11-14-16    53.65,
                     53.75,
                     53.78,
                     53.98,
                     53.99
                    
 
