WAYNE COUNTY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2023-006, passed 7-26-2023; and
State legislation current through 2023 Indiana Legislative Service, Pamphlet #3
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   COUNTY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Wayne County
Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   (1)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws,
amendments thereto and newly enacted laws.
      (2)   Any previously existing law or amendment thereto reenacted by this
code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it had not been repealed by
this code.
      (3)   All rules and regulations adopted under laws reenacted in this code
shall remain in full force and effect unless repealed or amended subsequent to
the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical
words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be
understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Wayne County Board of Commissioners.
      CLERK. The Clerk of the Wayne County Board of Commissioners.
      COUNCIL. The Wayne County Council.
      COUNTY. Wayne County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof and, as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships located within the county.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING.
         (a)   Include printing, lithographing or other modes of representing
words and letters; and
         (b)   Where the written signature of a person is required, the terms
mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   (1)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code
containing a non- severability provision, each division or part of every
section is severable.
      (2)   If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
         (a)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with
and so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
         (b)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of the county exercising the
powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
or Board of Commissioners refers to any board, bureau, commission, division,
department, officer, agency, authority or instrumentality of any government,
and that name designation is incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that
ordinance or following the effective date, the rights, powers, duties or
liabilities placed with that entity are or were transferred to a different
entity; then the named board, bureau, commission, department, division,
officer, agency, authority or instrumentality, whether correctly named in the
ordinance at its effective date or not, means that correctly named entity or
the entity to which the duties, liabilities, powers and rights were
transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and re-enactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to an indication thereof as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for
         inspection or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted
         by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the county published in 1982 and subsequently amended, the
previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(1982 Code,
§      )”.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: COUNTY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Commissioner districts
   
11.02   Council districts
§ 11.01 COMMISSIONER DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DISTRICTS. A geographical area located within the county boundaries
consisting of one or several townships.
      TOWNSHIP. A unit of government.
(1982 Code, § 11.01)
   (B)   Map .
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b13e5f68cbdb84e4569995f611153b3ab513d249/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1473.jpg]
   (C)   Districts. The County Commissioner election districts shall be divided
into three districts as follows:
      (1)   District 1 shall include the townships of Boston, Franklin, New
Garden and Wayne;
      (2)   District 2 shall include the townships of Abington, Center, Clay,
Green and Webster; and
      (3)   District 3 shall include the townships of Dalton, Harrison,
Jackson, Jefferson, Perry and Washington.
(1982 Code, § 11.02)
(Ord. passed 12-21-1981)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-2-2-4
§ 11.02 COUNCIL DISTRICTS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b13e5f68cbdb84e4569995f611153b3ab513d249/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1475.jpg]
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
31.   COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
34.   COUNTY SERVICES AND POLICIES
      
35.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; FUNDS
      
36.   FEES AND CHARGES
CHAPTER 30: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Wayne Township Representative Payee Program
   
30.01   Establishment
   
30.02   Funds
   
30.03   Accounting of funds
   
30.04   Minimal fee
   
30.05   Audit of program
   
30.06   Hold harmless clause
   
30.07   Interpretation
   
30.08   Equal treatment
WAYNE TOWNSHIP REPRESENTATIVE PAYEE PROGRAM
§ 30.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created, within the office of the Trustee of Wayne Township,
a representative payee program enabling that office to serve as a payee for
funds received by disabled persons throughout the county. The program shall be
hereinafter titled “Trustee, Wayne Township, Wayne County Representative Payee
Program”.
(1982 Code, § 23.01) (Ord. passed 7-17-1989)
§ 30.02 FUNDS.
   This program shall receive and disperse the funds of disabled persons as the
various bills and obligations of these persons come due.
(1982 Code, § 23.02) (Ord. passed 7-17-1989)
§ 30.03 ACCOUNTING OF FUNDS.
   The funds shall be placed in one interest bearing account until said funds
are dispersed for payment of the various bills of the persons participating in
the program; and that interest shall be paid pro rata to all persons having
payee accounts within the program.
(1982 Code, § 23.03) (Ord. passed 7-17-1989)
§ 30.04 MINIMAL FEE.
   (A)   No additional county funding shall be requested by the Trustee of
Wayne Township for the establishment and maintenance of this program.
   (B)   This, however, does not preclude the Trustee of Wayne Township from
establishing a minimal fee to be assessed against the referral agency or other
persons responsible for the participating disabled persons.
(1982 Code, § 23.04) (Ord. passed 7-17-1989)
§ 30.05 AUDIT OF PROGRAM.
   (A)   This program shall be subject to audit by the State Board of Accounts.
   (B)   All books and records reflecting any transactions of the program shall
be kept and maintained in conformance with requirements and procedures
recommended or required by the State Board of Accounts.
(1982 Code, § 23.05) (Ord. passed 7-17-1989)
§ 30.06 HOLD HARMLESS CLAUSE.
   This program is not sponsored, nor administered, by either the County Board
of Commissioners or the County Council. The Trustee of Wayne Township shall
indemnify and hold harmless the County Council, the Board of Commissioners of
the county, its officers, officials, representatives and employees from any and
all claims or causes of action occurring as a consequence of or in any way
related or arising out of the program.
(1982 Code, § 23.06) (Ord. passed 7-17-1989)
§ 30.07 INTERPRETATION.
   This subchapter shall be construed broadly to effectuate its purpose.
(1982 Code, § 23.07) (Ord. passed 7-17-1989)
§ 30.08 EQUAL TREATMENT.
   The Trustee will perform the services above- described without regard to
race, color, creed, national origin, sex or age.
(1982 Code, § 23.09) (Ord. passed 7-17-1989)
CHAPTER 31: COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
31.01   Health Department; Board
   
31.02   Plan Commission
   
31.03   Department of Redevelopment; Redevelopment Commission
   
31.04   Economic Development Loan Board; Fund
   
31.05   Weed Control Board
   
31.06   Ordinance Violation Bureau
§ 31.01 HEALTH DEPARTMENT; BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment. The County Local Health Department is hereby
established pursuant to I.C. 16-1-3.8-1, § 1.
(1982 Code, § 97.01)
   (B)   Management. The County Local Health Board shall manage the County
Health Department, pursuant to I.C. 16-1-3.8-2 and in accord with applicable
statutes of the state and ordinances of the county.
(1982 Code, § 97.02)
   (C)   Appointment. The Board of Commissioners of the county shall appoint
the members of the County Local Board of Health upon 12-31-1991, pursuant to
I.C. 16-1-3.8-7.
(1982 Code, § 97.03)
   (D)   Dissolvement. The present County Board of Health shall continue to
maintain, manage and operate the County Health Department until 12-31-1991,
with said Board hereby dissolved as of that date.
(1982 Code, § 97.04)
(Ord. passed 11-27-1991)
§ 31.02 PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established in the county a County Plan
Commission under the authority of an Act of the General Assembly of the State
of 1947, Ch. 173.
(1982 Code, § 50.01)
   (B)   Organization. As soon as possible after their appointment, the members
of said Plan Commission shall meet and organize by the election of such
officers as the said Ch. 174 requires and such other officers as may, in their
judgment, be necessary.
(1982 Code, § 50.02)
(Ord. passed 1-18-1965)
§ 31.03 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT; REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment of Department. The Board of Commissioners of the county
now deems it to be in the best interest of the county and its citizens to
afford a maximum opportunity for rehabilitation, redevelop-ment or economic
development of areas by private enterprise and the county by establishing a
Department of Redevelopment.
(1982 Code, § 38.01)
   (B)   Redevelopment Commission. The Board of Commissioners hereby
establishes a Department of Redevelopment of the county. The Department will be
controlled by a board of five members known as the “County Redevelopment
Commission”.
(1982 Code, § 38.02)
   (C)   Redevelopment District. Pursuant to the Act, all of the territory
within the corporate boundaries of the county; except that, within a
municipality which has a redevelopment commission, will be a taxing district to
be known as the “Wayne County Redevelopment District” for the purpose of
levying and collecting special benefit taxes for redevelopment and economic
development purposes as provided in the Act. The Board of Commissioners finds
and determines that all of the taxable property within this special taxing
district will be considered to be benefitted by the redevelopment projects and
economic development projects carried out under the Act to the extent of the
special taxes levied under the Act.
(1982 Code, § 38.03)
   (D)   Appointment and term of Redevelopment Commission members.
      (1)   The Board of County Commissioners shall appoint all five of the
members of the County Redevelopment Commission.
      (2)   The terms of office of the initial members of the County
Redevelopment Commission shall commence from the date of their appointment and
expire on 1-1-2000.
(1982 Code, § 38.04)
(Ord. passed 7-27-1998; Ord. passed 11-23-1998)
§ 31.04 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT LOAN BOARD; FUND.
   (A)   Fund organization and administration. There is hereby created the
County Economic Development Fund, which will be structured and administered as
follows.
      (1)   Funding will be provided through appropriations approved by the
County Council, donations, payments-in-lieu of taxes, interest income,
repayment of loans including principal and interest, federal and state assisted
loans and grants including, without limitation, urban development action grants
(UDAG) and community development block grants (CDBG), proceeds from sale of
surplus property as designated by Council, other federal assistance as may be
made available, interest from the investment of surplus community and economic
development fund money, temporary transfers from other funds and funds
contributed or provided by local communities or organizations.
      (2)   Expenditures out of this fund will include, but not necessarily be
limited to:
         (a)   Low interest loans in conjunction with conventional loans
through private lenders;
         (b)   Local matching funds necessary to obtain state and/or federal
grants relating to community and economic development;
         (c)   Necessary administrative and professional costs associated with
community and economic development activities;
         (d)   Satisfying loan guarantees of private sector funds; provided
that, such guarantees shall not exceed the financial capability of the fund and
shall not encumber any other county funds, resources and/or property;
         (e)   Historic preservation loans in conjunction with conventional
loans through private lenders;
         (f)   Housing rehabilitation loans; and
         (g)   Eligible community, economic and rehabilitation and preservation
activities, as defined pursuant to 24 C.F.R. §§ 570.201, 570.202, 570.203 and
570.204.
      (3)   The Economic Development Fund shall be structured and administered
as a revolving loan fund whereby the moneys loaned to approved projects will be
repaid into said fund in accordance with loan documents and made available once
again for use by the hereinafter described Economic Development
Loan Board in conformity with this section and the loan criteria established by
said Board.
      (4)   The County Auditor shall establish a separate fund to be known as
the Economic Development Revolving Loan Fund for the purpose of receiving and
disbursing funds pursuant to this section. This Economic Development Revolving
Loan Fund shall be used only for the purposes set forth in this section and
shall not be commingled with any other funds received by the county.
Disbursement records shall be kept in such manner that expenditures by major
budget categories shall be reasonably available.
      (5)   The County Treasurer shall invest moneys in the fund in the same
manner that other moneys of the county are invested with the interest earned
from such investment to be deposited in the Economic Development Revolving Loan
Fund.
(1982 Code, § 37.01)
   (B)   Board organization and administration. There is hereby created the
County Economic Development Loan Board (hereinafter referred to as the
“Board”), to be constituted, organized and administered as follows.
      (1)   The Board shall consist of nine members:
         (a)   One member of the Board of Commissioners of the county as
selected by a majority of the members of said Board;
         (b)   A representative from the County Council appointed annually for
a one-year term by the President of the County Council;
         (c)   The Auditor of the county by virtue of his or her office;
         (d)   Two representatives from local financial institutions shall be
appointed by the Board of Commissioners of the county for four- year staggering
terms. Initially, one member shall be
appointed for a two-year term and thereafter appointed for a four-year term;
and, one member shall be appointed for a four-year term and thereafter
appointed for a four-year term;
         (e)   Three citizen members shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners of the county representing each Commissioners’ district for four-
year staggering terms. Initially, one member shall be appointed for a one-year
term and thereafter reappointed for a four-year term; one member shall be
appointed for a two-year term and thereafter for a four-year term; one member
shall be appointed for a four-year term; and
         (f)   One citizen member shall be appointed by the County Council for
a four- year term.
      (2)   All appointed members of the Board shall serve until the expiration
of their respective terms or until a successor is appointed, whichever occurs
later; provided, however, that, all appointed members of the Board may, for
good cause shown, be removed from the Board by the respective member’s
appointive body. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the terms of the initial Board
members shall be considered on a calendar year basis and shall extend to
December 31 of the year their terms would otherwise expire. Terms thereafter
shall be on a calendar year basis.
      (3)   The citizen members appointed to the Board shall possess and
demonstrate sufficient financial skills, background and experience to
adequately perform the duties herein contemplated.
      (4)   The county shall indemnify members of the County Economic
Development Loan Board from, for and against any and all civil claims, in tort,
contract or otherwise growing out of or related to such member’s acts or
omissions, if the member’s conduct was in good faith and the member reasonably
believed his or her conduct was in the best interest of the Economic
Development Loan Board. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the county shall not
indemnify a member as above provided unless the Board of Commissioners of the
county determines that the member’s conduct in the specific case was in
accordance with the above-stated standard of conduct. This subsection shall not
be construed to limit the authority to pay or reimburse expenses incurred by a
member in connection with the member’s appearance as a witness in a proceeding
at a time when the member has not been made a named defendant or respondent to
the proceeding.
(1982 Code, § 37.02)
   (C)   Financial procedure. The Board is charged with the sole responsibility
of the expenditure of economic development funds provided for herein including,
without limitation, approving loan applications, using the loan criteria as set
forth in divisions (C)(3), (C)(4), (C)(5) and (C)(6) below, and preparation of
loan agreements which shall minimally provide for the amount of loans,
repayment terms, interest and the securing of the necessary collateral.
      (1)   A one time loan processing fee of one point on all loans will be
charged to the borrower and will be payable at closing or added to the
principal amount of the loan to form an enlarged principal balance. The fee
will be used to offset administrative costs associated with the program. Any
incidental costs incurred by the applicant, the Board or the county with regard
to a loan will be the responsibility of the applicant. Such costs include, but
are not limited to: recording fees; legal fees; and closing fees.
      (2)   The applicant must be a business or industry located within the
county. The Board may establish target areas and/or target businesses and
industries for loan priorities. Priority shall be given to those businesses or
industries located or locating in those areas of the county where community and
economic development loan programs similar to the ones provided for herein are
not otherwise available.
      (3)   Loan criteria will be established by the Board and shall include,
without limitation, the number of jobs created and/or retained, the types of
jobs to be created, the ratio of loan fund dollars to jobs created, the ratio
of loan funds to private investment funds, the growth potential of the
business, the generation of tax revenue and tax assessment base to further the
long-term economic growth of the county and the need of loan funds to make the
project economically feasible. The Board shall comply with the loan criteria as
established by federal and/or state funding agencies in relation to the
expenditure of funds provided by said agencies.
      (4)   Each loan application will be evaluated on its own merits without
regard to other loans.
      (5)   The maximum amount of the loan fund injection into any one business
or industrial project will be limited to $500,000 or 30% of the total project
capital cost, whichever is greater.
      (6)   Other additional criteria regarding loans consistent with the
provisions of this section may be developed by the Board. All such criteria
will be approved by the Board and provided in writing to all loan applicants.
(1982 Code, § 37.03)
   (D)   Accounting procedures. The County Auditor will be responsible for the
financial management of the funds including, but not limited to, the proper
accounting of funds.
(1982 Code, § 37.04)
(Ord. passed 2-13-1989; Ord. passed 8-7-1989)
§ 31.05 WEED CONTROL BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment. The County Weed Control Board is established, pursuant
to I.C. 15-3-4.6-1, for the purpose of controlling certain noxious weeds.
(1982 Code, § 35.01)
   (B)   Board members. The County Weed Control Board shall consist of the
following members:
      (1)   One Township Trustee of the county;
      (2)   One Soil and Water Conservation District Supervisor;
      (3)   One representative from the agricultural community who shall be
selected by the County Extension Agent;
      (4)   One representative from the County Highway Department; and
      (5)   The County Extension Agent who shall serve in a non-voting advisory
capacity.
(1982 Code, § 35.02)
   (C)   Board structure and terms.
      (1)   The County Board of Commissioners shall appoint each member of the
Weed Control Board for a term of four years.
      (2)   The Weed Control Board shall elect a Chairperson and Secretary at
the initial meeting of the Board.
      (3)   Vacancies in Board membership shall be filled for the unexpired
term in the same manner as initial appointments.
(1982 Code, § 35.03)
(Ord. passed 11-15-1982)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-3-2
§ 31.06 ORDINANCE VIOLATION BUREAU.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby created the County Ordinance Violations Bureau
to serve as an ordinance enforcement body in accordance with the provisions of
I.C. 3 6-1-6-3(a)(1), as amended.
      (2)   The duly elected Clerk of the Wayne Circuit Court shall be, and is
hereby, appointed as the Ordinance Violations Clerk for those purposes
enumerated at I.C. 33-32 et seq.
      (3)   Upon a person’s entry of written appearance, waiver of trial and
admission of ordinance violation(s), the Violations Clerk be, and is hereby,
authorized to accept payment of the civil penalties proscribed by the
applicable ordinance(s) in such amounts as are set forth in said ordinance(s),
but in any event, not greater than the sum of $250, or the maximum amount
permitted by I.C. 33-36-2-3(4), whichever is the greater.
   (B)   (1)   The Clerk of the Bureau shall assess and collect from a violator
who elects to admit a violation of an ordinance, listed in division (B)(2)
below, the civil penalties set forth in the amounts so scheduled, but, in any
event, in amounts not greater than the sum of $250 or the maximum amount
permitted by I.C. 33-36-2-3(4), whichever is the greater.
      (2)   (a)   The following ordinances may be admitted before the County
Ordinance Enforcement Bureau Clerk who will impose a civil penalty of $100 for
the first violation and a civil penalty of $250 for each subsequent violation
occurring within a period of one year from the first violation:
 
Ord. No. Topic
2008-012 Subject smoking on county facilities
2005-010 Dogs causing unreasonable noise
2004-003 Possessing weapons in/on county-owned facilities
2003-003 Emergency transportation restrictions
2003-001 Animal-drawn vehicle registration
 
         (b)   The following ordinance may be admitted before the County
Ordinance Enforcement Bureau Clerk who will impose a civil penalty of $27.50
for each dishonored check, plus restitution of the face amount of the
dishonored check:
 
Ord. No. Topic
2006-003 NSF check fee, applies to any dishonored check presented to any
         elected official of the county
 
(Ord. 2009-004, passed 5-6-2009; Ord. 2009-005, passed 8-19-2009)
CHAPTER 32: LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Smoke-free jail facility
   
32.02   Medical co-payments for inmates
   
32.03   Accident report copies
   
32.04   Sex and violent offenders registry
   
32.05   Sheriff’s work release program
   
32.06   Uniformed volunteer service
Sheriff’s Merit Board
   
32.20   Establishment
   
32.21   Organization and requirements
Sheriff’s Citizens Advisory Board
   
32.35   Establishment
   
32.36   Composition and appointment
   
32.37   Compensation
   
32.38   Purpose and duties
   
32.39   Organization
Community Corrections Advisory Board
   
32.50   Establishment
   
32.51   Board members
   
32.52   Organization
   
32.53   Powers, duties and responsibilities
   
32.54   Definition
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 SMOKE-FREE JAIL FACILITY.
   (A)   Establishment. The Commissioners, on request of the County Sheriff,
hereby elect to declare the entire County Safety Building to be a smoke-free
facility. From the date of passage of this section, the County Sheriff is
encouraged to establish and enforce policies in furtherance of this section.
(1982 Code, § 46.1)
   (B)   Administration. The administration and uniform enforcement of this
section is the exclusive responsibility of the County Sheriff.
(1982 Code, § 46.2)
   (C)   Penalties. The Commissioners may establish, subsequent to further
action by the Commissioners, a penalty for violation of this section.
(1982 Code, § 46.3)
(Ord. passed 4-15-1992)
§ 32.02 MEDICAL CO-PAYMENTS FOR INMATES.
   (A)   This section does not apply to a person confined to a county jail who:
      (1)   Maintains a policy of insurance from a private company covering:
         (a)   Medical care;
         (b)   Dental care;
         (c)   Eye care; and/or
         (d)   Any other health care related service.
      (2)   Is willing to pay for the person’s own medical care.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, a person confined to a
county jail may be required to make a co-payment in an amount of not more than
$7 for each prescription handled, and not more than $15 for each provision of
any of the following services:
      (1)   Medical care;
      (2)   Dental care;
      (3)   Eye care; and/or
      (4)   Any other health care related service.
   (C)   A person confined to a county jail is not required to make the co-
payment under division (B) above if:
      (1)   The person does not have funds in the person’s commissary account
or trust account at the time the service is provided;
      (2)   The person does not have funds in the person’s commissary account
or trust account within 60 days after the service is provided;
      (3)   The service is provided in an emergency;
      (4)   The service is provided as a result of an injury received in the
county jail; or
      (5)   The service is provided at the request of the Sheriff or jail
administrator.
   (D)   The County Sheriff shall:
      (1)   Collect the co-payment funds described in division (B) above;
      (2)   Deposit those funds into a separate account and forward those funds
to the County Auditor on a monthly basis; and
      (3)   Maintain records of all transactions and make those records
available to the County Auditor upon request.
   (E)   The County Auditor shall deposit all funds received into the County
Medical Care for Inmates Fund.
   (F)   The County Medical Care for Inmates Fund shall be used as determined
and appropriated by the County Council.
(Ord. 2008-004, passed 3-12-2008)
§ 32.03 ACCIDENT REPORT COPIES.
   The Sheriff of the county shall collect a fee of $8 for each copy of an
accident report as provided by I.C. 9-29-11-1. The fee collected shall be
deposited with the County Auditor and placed in the county’s Accident Report
Account for expenditure therefrom at the discretion of the County Sheriff for
those purposes permitted by I.C. 9-29-11-1(b)(2), as from time to time be
amended.
(Ord. 2007-012, passed 9-5-2007)
§ 32.04 SEX AND VIOLENT OFFENDERS REGISTRY.
   The Sheriff of the county, is authorized, and is hereby directed, to collect
the following fees from registering sexual and/or violent offenders:
   (A)   An annual registration fee in the amount of $50 to be collected from
the registering offender at or within ten calendar days of registration with
the local law enforcement authority, and a renewal registration fee collectable
in said amount annually thereafter within ten calendar days of the anniversary
of the registering offender first or prior registration;
   (B)   The original annual registration fee and any renewal registration fee
payable by a registering offender pursuant to division (A) above may be paid in
installments over a period of time not to exceed six months after the original
due date. Such deferred payments shall not extend the renewal date for any
subsequently due renewal registration fee;
   (C)   A fee in the sum of $5 shall be collected at the time each registered
offender changes his or her address and registers such change with the local
law enforcement authority; and
   (D)   Moneys received by the Sheriff from such registration and change of
address fees shall be remitted to the Auditor of the county and there processed
by said Auditor in accordance with the requirements of I.C. 36-2-13-5.6(f).
(Ord. passed 2015-014, passed 10-28-2015)
§ 32.05 SHERIFF’S WORK RELEASE PROGRAM.
   (A)   Deduction limit. As partial payment for room and board provided to the
participant by the county, there shall be deducted from the earnings of a
participant in the work release program an amount equal to the average daily
cost of inmate care (as hereinafter defined); provided that, such deduction
shall not exceed 25% of the participant’s gross earnings.
(1982 Code, § 42.01)
   (B)   Daily cost formula.
      (1)   The average daily cost of inmate care shall be determined by the
Sheriff of the county in the following manner:
         (a)   Dividing the total jail budget for the calendar year immediately
preceding by 365; and
         (b)   Dividing the quotient obtained in division (B)(1)(a) above by
the average number of inmates housed per diem in the County Jail during the
calendar year immediately preceding.
      (2)   The Sheriff shall make such determination on or before January 15
of each year. In the event such determination is not made on or before January
15 of any year, the average daily cost of inmate care as determined for the
previous year shall continue until a new determination of average daily care of
inmate is made as above provided.
(1982 Code, § 42.02)
   (C)   Funds for Treasurer. All moneys deducted by the Sheriff pursuant to
this section shall be remitted to the County Treasurer and deposited in the
County General Fund.
(1982 Code, § 42.03)
   (D)   Sheriff’s responsibility. Except as otherwise provided herein, the
County Sheriff shall be responsible for the administration and policy of the
work release program.
(1982 Code, § 42.04)
   (E)   Legal. This section shall be construed in accordance with I.C. 11-12-
5-1 et seq.
(1982 Code, § 42.05)
(Ord. passed 12-27-1988)
§ 32.06 UNIFORMED VOLUNTEER SERVICE.
   (A)   Establishment. The Sheriff of the county is authorized and empowered,
in accordance with I.C. 36-8-3-20 as amended, to establish a unit within the
County Sheriff’s Department, to be known as the “Uniformed Volunteer Services
Program of the Wayne County Sheriff’s Department”.
(1982 Code, § 41.01)
   (B)   Appointment. Program volunteers will be determined and appointed by
the Sheriff of the county subject to qualifications, limitations, directions
and standards established by the Sheriff of the county.
(1982 Code, § 41.02)
   (C)   Number of volunteers. The unit of program volunteers shall not exceed
40 individuals at any one time. Program volunteers shall serve as special
deputies under such authority as is granted and defined by the Sheriff of the
county pursuant to I.C. 36-8-10-10.6, as amended.
(1982 Code, § 41.03)
   (D)   Composition. The County Sheriff may constitute, establish, operate and
appoint, in accordance with the provisions of this section, the County
Sheriff’s Reserves Unit, the County Sheriff’s Mounted Patrol Unit and such
other divisions and/or units deemed appropriate by the Sheriff.
(1982 Code, § 41.04)
   (E)   Uniforms. Uniforms designating special deputies appointed pursuant to
this section shall be easily distinguishable from uniforms worn by regular
sections of the County Sheriff’s Department.
(1982 Code, § 41.05)
(Ord. passed 1-5-1987)
SHERIFF’S MERIT BOARD
§ 32.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Sheriff’s Merit Board, to be known as the
“Wayne County Sheriff’s Merit Board”, in accordance with I.C. 17-3-14-1 and
recodified as I.C. 36-8-10-1, 36-8-10-2 and 36-8-10-3.
(1982 Code, § 40.01) (Ord. passed 7-26-1971)
§ 32.21 ORGANIZATION AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Board consists of five members. Three members shall be appointed
by the Sheriff and two members shall be elected by a majority vote of the
members of the county police force under procedures established by the
Sheriff’s Merit Board; however, no active police officer may serve on the
Board.
   (B)   Appointments are for terms of four years or for the remainder of an
unexpired term. No more than two of the members appointed by the Sheriff, nor
more than one of the members elected by the officers, may belong to the same
political party.
   (C)   All members must reside in the county.
   (D)   Members shall serve during their respective terms and until their
successors have been appointed and qualified. A member may be removed for cause
duly adjudicated by declaratory judgment of the circuit court of the county.
   (E)   Each member of the Board is entitled to receive from the county $15
per day for each day or fraction of a day that he or she is engaged in
transacting the business of the Board.
   (F)   After being appointed, members shall meet upon the call of the Sheriff
and organize by electing a President and Secretary from among their membership.
   (G)   Three members of the Board constitute a quorum for transaction of
business.
   (H)   The Board shall hold regular monthly meetings throughout the year as
is necessary to transact the business of the Sheriff’s Department.
(1982 Code, § 40.02) (Ord. passed 7-26-1971)
SHERIFF’S CITIZENS ADVISORY BOARD
§ 32.35 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The County Sheriff’s Citizens Advisory Board (hereinafter referred to in
this subchapter as “the Citizens Advisory Board”) is hereby established.
(1982 Code, § 43.01) (Ord. passed 9-5-1989)
§ 32.36 COMPOSITION AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Citizens Advisory Board shall consist of not less than three
members, nor more than seven members.
   (B)   The members shall be selected and appointed by the Sheriff of the
county and shall serve for such period as designated by the Sheriff and,
thereafter, at the pleasure of the Sheriff.
   (C)   The members of the Citizens Advisory Board shall be citizens of the
county selected on the basis of experience and reputation as dedicated and
responsible citizens of the community able to offer mature and enlightened
counsel in the important and delicate matters related to the internal operation
of the County Sheriff’s Department.
(1982 Code, § 43.02) (Ord. passed 9-5-1989)
§ 32.37 COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Citizens Advisory Board shall serve on a voluntary basis
and without compensation.
(1982 Code, § 43.03) (Ord. passed 9-5-1989)
§ 32.38 PURPOSE AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Citizens Advisory Board may be requested to offer
recommendations on a wide variety of matters. The Board will act in an advisory
capacity on matters of policy. The Board will act in a review capacity in
matters related to officer actions and internal affairs. The Board may be asked
to serve in a citizens review capacity for citizen complaints in such cases
where improper conduct of an officer and/or another employee is alleged. The
Board may be requested to offer recommendations concerning officer and/or other
employee recognition for meritorious conduct. The Board may be requested also
to offer recommendations on any other matters deemed appropriate by the
Sheriff.
      (2)   The focus of the Citizens Advisory Board shall be to enhance the
development and adherence to professional and ethical standards by all members
of the County Sheriff’s Department. The Board will enable a citizen’s review of
cases involving use of force, jail and law enforcement policy, personnel policy
and practice, training and education requirements.
   (B)   The Citizens Advisory Board shall make recommendations, as requested,
to the County Sheriff following its review and consideration of matters
relative to:
      (1)   Officer and employee actions;
      (2)   Policy and procedure;
      (3)   Policy and procedure compliance;
      (4)   Policy and procedure non-compliance;
      (5)   Professional and ethical standards;
      (6)   Internal affairs;
      (7)   Officer and/or employee performance recognition; and
      (8)   Other matters designated by the Sheriff.
   (C)   The Citizens Advisory Board shall provide advice and counsel to the
Sheriff in the above areas but such advice and counsel shall not be binding
upon the Sheriff, or in any way be considered as diminishing the Sheriff’s
final and ultimate responsibility to administer and direct the County Sheriff’s
Department in all its functions and activities and to make such decisions as
the Sheriff shall determine to be necessary and appropriate in fulfilling his
or her responsibilities as Sheriff of the county.
(1982 Code, § 43.04) (Ord. passed 9-5-1989)
§ 32.39 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The members of the Citizens Advisory Board shall meet within 30 days
after the last appointment to the Board and shall select a Chairperson, a Vice-
Chairperson and Secretary of the Board. The Board shall meet annually in
January of each year for the purpose of selecting a Chairperson, Vice-
Chairperson and Secretary. The Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and Secretary
shall continue to serve until a successor shall have been selected.
   (B)   The Citizens Advisory Board shall adopt such bylaws, rules,
regulations and/or procedure and select such other officers as it may deem
necessary and advisable to properly conduct its business. For the purpose of
transacting business, a majority of the membership shall constitute a quorum. A
vacancy in the membership shall not impair the right of a quorum to transact
business. Actions of the Citizens Advisory Board are not effective unless
accomplished at a regular or special meeting by a majority of the members
present at said meeting; provided that, a quorum exists.
   (C)   The Citizens Advisory Board shall meet at least once during the
calendar quarter for the purpose of conducting its business and carrying out
its duties, and at such other regular and/or special times as provided in its
bylaws or rules of procedure, or by vote of its members.
(1982 Code, § 43.05) (Ord. passed 9-5-1989)
COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS ADVISORY BOARD
§ 32.50 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The County Community Corrections Advisory Board is hereby established.
(1982 Code, § 36.01) (Ord. passed 2-8-1988)
§ 32.51 BOARD MEMBERS.
   The County Community Corrections Advisory Board shall consist of 16 members.
   (A)   The following four members shall serve by virtue of their office or
position:
      (1)   The County Sheriff;
      (2)   The Prosecuting Attorney;
      (3)   The Director of the County Welfare Department; and
      (4)   The Mayor of the City of Richmond, Indiana.
   (B)   The following three members shall be appointed by the Judge of the
Wayne Circuit Court:
      (1)   One judge having criminal jurisdiction;
      (2)   One judge having juvenile jurisdiction; and
      (3)   One attorney with a substantial criminal defense practice.
   (C)   The following nine members shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners of the county:
      (1)   One probation officer;
      (2)   One educational administrator;
      (3)   One representative of a private correctional agency, if such an
agency exists or is established in the county;
      (4)   One mental health administrator or, if there is none available in
the county, one psychiatrist, psychologist or physician;
      (5)   One ex-offender, if available; and
      (6)   Four lay persons, at least one of whom must be a member of a
minority race, if a member of a minority race is willing to serve.
   (D)   The criminal defense attorney and the members of the Advisory Board
appointed by the Board of Commissioners shall be appointed for a term of four
years; provided, however, that, the initial terms of such appointees shall
expire on 12-31-1991. Thereafter, such appointments shall be made for terms
commencing January 1. Other members shall serve only while holding the office
or position held at the time of appointment. The Judge of the Wayne Circuit
Court may appoint one judge to fill both judicial memberships if the judge is
otherwise qualified. The Judge of the Wayne Circuit Court may also appoint
himself or herself if he or she is otherwise qualified. Members may
additionally be reappointed.
   (E)   A vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term of office shall
be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as original appointments.
In the event that a successor has not been named to replace a member upon the
expiration of such member’s term, such member shall continue to serve until a
successor has been duly appointed and qualified.
(1982 Code, § 36.02) (Ord. passed 2-8-1988)
§ 32.52 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The members of the Advisory Board shall meet within 30 days after the
last initial appointment is made for the purpose of organizing and shall elect
one member as Chairperson and another member as Vice-Chairperson and shall
appoint a Secretary-Treasurer who need not be a member of the Advisory Board.
Thereafter, the Advisory Board shall meet during the month of January of each
year for the purpose of selecting a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and
Secretary-Treasurer for the succeeding calendar year. The Chairperson, Vice-
Chairperson and the Secretary-Treasurer shall continue to serve until a
successor shall have been selected.
   (B)   The Advisory Board shall adopt such bylaws, rules and regulations and
select such other officers as it may deem necessary to properly conduct its
business. For the purposes of transacting business, a majority of the
membership shall constitute a quorum. A vacancy in the membership shall not
impair the right of a quorum to transact business. Actions of the Council are
not official unless authorized at a regular or special meeting by a majority of
the members present at such meeting; provided, a quorum exists.
   (C)   The Advisory Board shall meet at least once during each calendar
quarter for the purpose of conducting its business and carrying out its duties
and responsibilities.
   (D)   The members of the Advisory Board shall serve without compensation.
Such members may, however, be reimbursed for approved out-of-pocket expenses
incurred in the performance of their duties.
(1982 Code, § 36.03) (Ord. passed 2-8-1988)
§ 32.53 POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The County Community Corrections Advisory Board shall have the following
powers, duties and responsibilities:
   (A)   To formulate a community corrections plan providing for individual
community corrections programs;
   (B)   To make recommendations to the county and any city, town or private
organization in the county for the establishment and operation of community
corrections programs;
   (C)   To prepare any application for state financial aid for such plan and
programs as required by I.C. 11-12-2-4, as now or hereafter amended, and to
take any action which might be required from time to time under state law in
order to qualify such plan and programs for state financial aid;
   (D)   To observe the operation of community corrections in the county;
   (E)   To make an annual report to the Board of Commissioners containing an
evaluation of the effectiveness of the community corrections program, with
particular attention to any programs receiving state financial aid;
   (F)   To make recommendations for the improvement, modification or
discontinuance of any community correction program;
   (G)   To make recommendations to community corrections programs receiving
state financial aid concerning compliance with the standards adopted by the
State Department of Corrections for such programs;
   (H)   To recommend to the Board of Commissioners the approval or disapproval
of contracts with units of local government or non- governmental agencies who
desire to participate in the community corrections plan. Before recommending
approval of a contract, the Advisory Board must determine that a program is
capable of meeting the standards adopted by the State Department of Corrections
for programs receiving state financial aid; and
   (I)   To maintain an office if approved and designated by the Board of
Commissioners.
(1982 Code, § 36.04) (Ord. passed 2-8-1988)
§ 32.54 DEFINITION.
   As used herein, COMMUNITY CORRECTION PROGRAM means a community- based or
community-oriented program that provides for and involves sentencing
alternatives afforded the court, including, but not limited to, community
service or public service restitution, correctional programs and other
alternatives and/or programs to those and for those incarcerated at the County
Jail pursuant to the provisions of I.C. Title II, Art. 12, Ch. 2.
(1982 Code, § 36.05) (Ord. passed 2-8-1988)
CHAPTER 33: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Purpose
   
33.02   Definitions
   
33.03   General scope and intent; liberal construction of powers
   
33.04   Limitations; non-supersession of emergency powers of County Sheriff
   
33.05   Limitations; non-supersession of emergency management powers of
political subdivisions; conformance of political subdivision emergency
management rules and regulations with county’s emergency management program and
emergency plan
Administration and Organization
   
33.20   Emergency Management Advisory Council; establishment; power and duties
   
33.21   Director of Emergency Management; general powers and duties;
establishment; staffing; oath; prohibition of political activity
   
33.22   Department of Emergency Management; duties; budget and finance
   
33.23   Comprehensive emergency management plan; formulation; content and
adoption
   
33.24   Jurisdiction; Department of Emergency Management, County Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan and political subdivisions
   
33.25   Tests of the comprehensive emergency management plan; other emergency
tests
   
33.26   Board of Commissioners; general administrative powers and duties
   
33.27   County-wide mutual aid agreement program
Emergency Management Program
   
33.40   Applicability
   
33.41   Special emergency powers, duties of principal executive officer;
declaration of local disaster emergency
   
33.42   Board of Commissioners; convention of special emergency meeting
   
33.43   Principal executive officer; special emergency powers and duties
   
33.44   Board of Commissioners; special emergency powers and duties
   
33.45   County officers and employees; general duties concerning emergency
management
   
33.46   Officers, employees of incorporated and unincorporated areas of county;
general duties concerning emergency management
   
33.47   Priority of emergency orders, rules and regulations
   
33.48   Non-compliance with emergency orders, rules and regulations;
obstruction or impersonation of emergency management authorities; penalties and
enforcement
   
33.49   Limitation of liability during disaster emergency or emergency or
emergency management tests
   
33.50   Compensation for property commandeered or used during disaster
emergency
 
   
33.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish in the county a Department of
Emergency Management and to provide for the exercise of necessary powers during
disaster emergencies.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
§ 33.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY COUNCIL. The County Emergency Management Advisory Council as
established under this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners, as elected pursuant to I.C. 36-2-
2.
   CHAIRPERSON. The Chairperson of the County Emergency Management Advisory
Council as established under this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   COUNTY. Wayne County.
   DEPARTMENT. The County Department of Emergency Management as established
under this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   DIRECTOR. The County Emergency Management Director as established and
appointed pursuant to this chapter in accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   DISASTER. The meaning established in I.C. 10-14-3-1, which, at the time this
chapter is adopted, means:
      (1)   An occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or human-made
cause; and
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   Fire;
         (b)   Flood;
         (c)   Earthquake;
         (d)   Wind;
         (e)   Storm;
         (f)   Wave action;
         (g)   Oil, chemical or other hazardous material spill;
         (h)   Other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert
danger or damage;
         (i)   Air contamination;
         (j)   Drought;
         (k)   Explosion;
         (l)   Riot; and
         (m)   Hostile military or paramilitary action.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The meaning established in I.C. 10-14-3-2, which, at
the time this chapter is adopted, means the preparation for and the
coordination of all emergency functions, other than functions for which
military forces or other federal agencies are primarily responsible, to
prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from disasters. The
functions include the following:
      (1)   Firefighting services;
      (2)   Police services;
      (3)   Medical and health services;
      (4)   Rescue;
      (5)   Engineering;
      (6)   Warning services;
      (7)   Communications;
      (8)   Radiological, chemical and other special weapons defense;
      (9)   Evacuation of persons from stricken areas;
      (10)   Emergency welfare services;
      (11)   Emergency transportation;
      (12)   Plant protection;
      (13)   Temporary restoration of public utility services;
      (14)   Other functions related to civilian protection; and
      (15)   All other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation
for, and coordination of, the functions described in divisions (1) through (14)
above.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person who serves without compensation
in the Department of Emergency Management, being first duly given the loyalty
oath mandated by I.C. 10-14-3-27 and rostered and appointed by the Director,
including persons and private agencies or governmental units offering services
to the county during emergency situations or mutual aid to other emergency
services who request assistance.
   IDHS. The Indiana Department of Homeland Security established under Senate
Enrolled Act 56-2005 (Pub. Law No. 22-2005).
   PARTICIPATING EMERGENCY SERVICE.
      (1)   Any county department or agency designated in the emergency
operations plan to participate in emergency management activities; and
      (2)   Any department or agency of the state, another county, a municipal
corporation or a volunteer organization designated to participate in the
county’s emergency management programs and activities pursuant to a cooperative
or mutual aid agreement entered into pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   PERSONNEL. County officers and employees and emergency management
volunteers, unless otherwise indicated.
   PLAN or EMERGENCY PLAN. The current local Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan whose preparation and updating are mandated by I.C. 10-14-3-17(h).
   PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE COUNTY. As referred to in I.C. 10-14-3-29
(a) for purposes of declaring a local disaster emergency, and as referred to
hereinafter, means the County Board of Commissioners established under I.C. 36-
2-2. If a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners (two of the three
Commissioners) is unavailable or is incapacitated, then the following
establishes the line of succession for the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER:
      (1)   Regularly designated President of the County Board of
Commissioners. If a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners (two of the
three Commissioners as established under I.C. 36-2-4-3) is unavailable or is
incapacitated, then the regularly designated President of the County Board of
Commissioners shall serve as the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the purposes
of this chapter until such time that a quorum of the County Board of
Commissioners is no longer unavailable or incapacitated;
      (2)   President Pro-Tem of the Board of County Commissioners. If both a
quorum of the County Board of Commissioners and the regularly designated
President of the County Board of Commissioners are unavailable or are
incapacitated, then the President Pro-Tem of the County Board of Commissioners
shall serve as the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the purposes of this chapter
until such time that either the regularly designated President or a quorum of
the County Board of Commissioners is no longer unavailable or incapacitated;
      (3)   Remaining Commissioner of the Board of County Commissioners. If a
quorum of the Board of County Commissioners, the regularly designated President
of the Board of County Commissioners and the President Pro-Tem of the County
Board of Commissioners are all unavailable or are incapacitated, then the
remaining Commissioner of the County Board of Commissioners shall serve as the
PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the purposes of this chapter until such time
that the President Pro-Tem, the regularly designated President or a quorum of
the County Board of Commissioners is no longer unavailable or incapacitated;
      (4)   Sheriff. If all of the County Commissioners are unavailable or
incapacitated, then the County Sheriff shall serve as the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE
OFFICER for the purposes of this chapter until such time that a County
Commissioner is no longer unavailable or incapacitated;
      (5)   County Auditor. If all of the County Commissioners and Sheriff are
unavailable or incapacitated, then the County Auditor shall serve as the
PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the purposes of this chapter until such time
that a County Commissioner or Sheriff is no longer unavailable or
incapacitated;
      (6)   County Clerk. If all of the County Commissioners and the County
Auditor are unavailable or incapacitated, then the County Clerk shall serve as
the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the purposes of this chapter until such
time that the County Clerk or a County Commissioner is no longer unavailable or
incapacitated; and
      (7)   Director of Emergency Management. If all of the County
Commissioners, the County Auditor, the County Clerk and the County Recorder are
unavailable or incapacitated, then the Director of Emergency Management shall
serve as the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the purposes of this chapter until
such time that the Counter Recorder, the County Auditor, the County Clerk or a
County Commissioner is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
§ 33.03 GENERAL SCOPE AND INTENT; LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION OF POWERS.
   (A)   The general intent of this chapter is to provide for all necessary and
indispensable powers and procedures reasonably needed to mitigate, prepare for,
respond to and recover from emergency conditions.
   (B)   To this end, all powers, both ministerial and discretionary, as
conferred herein shall be liberally construed to supplement and augment, not to
limit, any other powers or reasonable exercise of discretion which may
ordinarily pertain to county officers, employees, department and agencies.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
§ 33.04 LIMITATIONS; NON-SUPERSESSION OF EMERGENCY POWERS OF COUNTY SHERIFF.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to supersede or delimit any statutory
powers of the County Sheriff.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
§ 33.05 LIMITATIONS; NON-SUPERSESSION OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT POWERS OF
POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS; CONFORMANCE OF POLITICAL SUBDIVISION EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT RULES AND REGULATIONS WITH COUNTY’S EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM AND
EMERGENCY PLAN.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to supersede or delimit the powers
granted under I.C. 10-14-3-17 to any political subdivision to adopt and
implement emergency plans and promulgate and enforce emergency management rules
and regulations in the advent of an actual emergency affecting such political
subdivision. However, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-22, such regulations and
procedures as promulgated by the political subdivision may not be inconsistent
with the county emergency management program and emergency plan established in
accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
ADMINISTRATION AND ORGANIZATION
§ 33.20 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COUNCIL; ESTABLISHMENT; POWER AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The County Emergency Management Advisory Council is established by
I.C. 10-14-3-17(c) and under this statute consists of the following individuals
or their designees:
      (1)   The President of the Board of County Commissioners or, if the Board
of County Commissioners does not have a president, a member of the Board of
County Commissioners appointed from the membership of the Board of County
Commissioners;
      (2)   The President of the county fiscal body;
      (3)   The Mayor of each city located in the county;
      (4)   An individual representing the legislative bodies of all towns
located within the county;
      (5)   The commander of a local civil air patrol unit in the county, if
civil air patrol units are located in or based in the county;
      (6)   Representatives of such private and public agencies or
organizations that can be of assistance to emergency management, or as may be
added from time to time by the County Emergency Management Advisory Council.
The Advisory Council shall appoint these representatives. Appointed members
should represent, at minimum, the following organizations:
         (a)   The Sheriff of the county;
         (b)   The County Firefighters Association;
         (c)   The County Health Department;
         (d)   Medical service providers and/or Reid Hospital;
         (e)   Community service groups;
         (f)   News media;
         (g)   Public school administration;
         (h)   Legal profession;
         (i)   Transportation; and
         (j)   Owners and operators of facilities handling hazardous materials.
      (7)   The County Emergency Management Advisory Council will elect a
Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson annually. The chairperson shall appoint a
Recording Secretary; and
      (8)   The Advisory Council shall meet at least once quarterly.
   (B)   The powers and duties of the County Emergency Management Advisory
Council are established by I.C. 10-14-3-17(d) and under this statute consist of
the following.
      (1)   The Advisory Council shall exercise general supervision and control
over the emergency management and disaster program of the county.
      (2)   The Advisory Council shall select, or cause to be selected, with
the approval of the Board of County Commissioners, a County Emergency
Management Director. The Advisory Council shall determine the qualifications of
the Director. The Director shall be appointed as a full time employee of the
county.
      (3)   (a)   The Advisory Council may recommend the removal of the
Director to the Board of County Commissioners if the Advisory Council
determines the performance of the Director to be unsatisfactory or inadequate
to fulfill the Director’s responsibilities as provided in this chapter, which
shall include, but may not be limited to, dereliction of duties, malfeasance in
office, incompetence, insubordination, deliberate disregard of job
responsibilities or physical or mental incapacity to perform required duties.
         (b)   The Board of County Commissioners may terminate the Director at
any time
for cause in accordance with the provisions of the county’s personnel policy.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
§ 33.21 DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT; GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES;
ESTABLISHMENT; STAFFING; OATH; PROHIBITION OF POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   (A)   The Director, subject to the direction and control of the Advisory
Council, shall be executive head of the Department, and pursuant to I.C. 10-14-
317(d)(2)(A) has direct responsibility for the organization, administration and
operation of the Department, including the following specific powers and
duties:
      (1)   The Director, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17(d)(2)(B), is responsible
to the chairperson of the Advisory Council, and as such shall keep the
Chairperson fully informed on emergency management activities and shall provide
such reports to the Advisory Council if so directed by the Chairperson of the
Advisory Council;
      (2)   Keep the Board fully informed on emergency management activities;
      (3)   Submit to the Advisory Council and the County Commissioners a
yearly report on the county’s comprehensive emergency management, including
mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery taken in the previous year and
planned and recommended for the year to come;
      (4)   Assure that all of the duties and responsibilities of the Emergency
Management Agency are completed;
      (5)   Assure that all county employees and rostered volunteers with
responsibilities as part of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan receive
training in the functions that they are to perform under the plan;
      (6)   Design and conduct exercises of the Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan, as required by the IDHS;
      (7)   Assure that the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan addresses
all hazards and includes all cities, towns and other population centers within
the county;
      (8)   Submit to IDHS the assessment specified in IDHS’s required format
and within IDHS’s required time frame for submission;
      (9)   Provide to the IDHS Director annual reports and documentation as
mandated;
      (10)   Competently manage the department’s various functions, including,
among others, financial, personnel and logistic;
      (11)   Timely obey to the directives of superior state authorities;
      (12)   Assure that the activities of the Department at all times comport
with I.C. 10-14-3 and other applicable statutes, rules and county ordinances;
      (13)   Develop an emergency operations center (“EOC”) as a site from
which key officials can direct and control operations during a disaster or
emergency;
      (14)   Attend, and attain passing grades in, the Emergency Management
Professional Development Series for emergency management presented by the IDHS
and Public Safety Training Institute within two years of first assuming the
position of Director and, attain at least basic level certification under
IDHS’s Professional Emergency Manager (PEM) Program;
      (15)   Attend, and attain passing grades in, such emergency management
training as may be required by IDHS and maintain PEM certification in
subsequent years;
      (16)   Assure the Deputy Director’s attendance at, and passing grades in,
the Emergency
Management Professional Development Series for emergency management presented
by the Public Safety Training Institute within four years of first assuming the
position of Deputy Director and, attain at least Basic level certification
under IDHS’s Professional Emergency Manager (PEM) Program;
      (17)   Assure the Deputy Director’s and all paid emergency management
staffs attendance at, and passing grades in, such emergency management training
as may be required by IDHS;
      (18)   Assure ongoing attendance by the Director, the Deputy Director and
all paid emergency management staff at further emergency management courses
presented by the Public Safety Training Institute to assure continued knowledge
of the latest information on emergency management;
      (19)   Assume responsibility for public relations, information and
education regarding all phases of emergency management;
      (20)   Assure coordination within the county of all activities for
emergency management;
      (21)   Maintain liaison and/coordinate with all other affected agencies,
public and private;
      (22)   Coordinate the recruitment and training for volunteer personnel
and agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the county for
emergency management purposes;
      (23)   Seek, negotiate and enter into (with the approval or ratification
of the County Commissioners and consistent with the State Emergency Operations
Plan and Program) mutual aid arrangements with other public and private
agencies for emergency management purposes, and taking all steps, in accordance
with such arrangements to comply with or take advantage thereof in the event of
an actual emergency affecting the parties;
      (24)   Accept any offer of the Federal Government to provide for the use
of the county any services, equipment, supplies, materials or funds for
emergency management purposes by way of gift, grant or loan, when the Governor
has approved such offer;
      (25)   Competently administer FEMA, IDHS, Homeland Security, mitigation
and other grant programs that may be applied for or provided to the county for
purposes of enhancing the county’s emergency management program including:
preparation and submittal of grant applications, direction and completion of
deliverable projects, accounting for grant funds, maintenance of appropriate
and required records and documentation and preparation and submittal of
requested audit or other required reports;
      (26)   Subject to all applicable statutes and the rules promulgated by
the State Department of Local Government Finance, the Director may seek and
accept from any person, firm or corporation, any gratuitous offers to provide
services, equipment, supplies, materials, funds or licenses or privileges to
use real estate or other premises, to the county for emergency management
purposes;
      (27)   Issue proper insignia and papers, to emergency management workers
and other people directly concerned with emergency management;
      (28)   Assure that all volunteers meet the criteria set forth in this
chapter prior to accepting them as members of the Department;
      (29)   Assure the implementation and integration of the National Incident
Management System (NIMS) and Incident Command System (ICS) as applicable to the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, Emergency Operations Center (EOC)
operations, staff officers, primary coordinating agencies and department
volunteer staff responsibilities and other department areas as appropriate;
      (30)   Attend, participate in and represent the Department and the
county’s emergency management interests in state, regional or district
meetings, regional and district emergency planning functions, regional or
district grant programs and other appropriate state, regional or district
emergency management functions;
      (31)   Direct the reasonable and necessary assistance of the Department
in assisting other local emergency services, public offices or private
organizations, with or without a local declaration of emergency. Respond to and
assist emergency management organizations in neighboring counties and counties
within the same planning district as the county or, at the request of IDHS,
with or without a local declaration of emergency, when such assistance is
requested and the county is not threatened or impacted by a disaster incident;
      (32)   Establish various working committees, work groups, task forces,
planning groups or other committees, with the advice of the Advisory Council,
as recommended or necessary for carrying out the duties and responsibilities of
emergency management for the county;
      (33)   Make rapid and accurate assessment of the following as soon as an
emergency or disaster declaration has been made and coordinate and direct this
information for use by local emergency response services and IDHS:
         (a)   Property damage;
         (b)   Personal injuries;
         (c)   Fatalities;
         (d)   Basic needs; and
         (e)   Special needs.
      (34)   In addition to the powers and duties expressly provided above, the
Director shall be construed to have all powers and duties of a local emergency
management Director as provided under I.C. 10-14-3. In particular, but not by
limitation, the Director, through the Department, may perform or cause to be
performed with respect to the county, any function parallel or analogous to
those performed on a statewide basis by IDHS under I.C. 10-14-3.
   (B)   (1)   There is hereby established a Department of Emergency Management
within the executive branch of the county government for the purpose of
utilizing to the fullest extent possible the personnel and facilities of
existing county departments and agencies to prepare for and meet any disaster
as defined in this chapter. The Director of Emergency Management shall be
responsible for its organization, administration and operation.
      (2)   The Department shall consist of the following:
         (a)   The paid staff of the Department shall consist of the Director
of Emergency Management and such deputies, clerical help and other personnel as
deemed necessary and provided by the County Council. The Director may appoint
such deputies, clerical help and other personnel in accordance with the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan and as approved by the Advisory
Council;
         (b)   Emergency management volunteers, as deemed necessary and
appointed by the Director. In addition to the other requirements in this
section, the Director shall ensure that all volunteer personnel meet the
following qualifications before being placed on the roster as a member of the
Department:
            1.   Be at least 18 years of age or older;
            2.   Not be convicted of a felony; and
            3.   Have completed and have on file with the Department an
application form.
         (c)   The employees, equipment and facilities of all county
departments and agencies suitable for, or adaptable to, emergency management
and designated by the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan to participate in
emergency management activity; and
         (d)   Emergency Operations Center staff (volunteers or re-assigned
employees) as designated by the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan to
participate in emergency management activity.
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-27(a), no person shall be employed or
associated in any capacity in any emergency management organization established
under this chapter who:
         (a)   Advocates a change by force or violence in the constitutional
form of the government of the United States or the overthrow of any government
in the United States by force or violence; or
         (b)   Has been convicted of or is under indictment or information
charging any subversive act against the United States.
      (4)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-27(b), each individual who is appointed to
serve in an organization for emergency management shall, before entering upon
the individual’s duties, take a loyalty oath, in writing, before a person
authorized to administer oaths in the state.
         (a)   The loyalty oath shall be substantially as follows: “I,        
, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend the Constitution
of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Indiana against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to
the same; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or
purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties
upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do
not advocate, nor am I a member of any political party or organization that
advocates, the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this
state by force or violence; and that during such time as I am a member of the
County Department of Emergency Management I will not advocate nor become a
member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this state by force or violence.”
         (b)   In accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-27(c), the Director of the IDHS
and the County Emergency Management Director may administer this loyalty oath
and may delegate the authority to administer the loyalty oath to designated
deputies and assistants approved by the Director of the IDHS.
      (5)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-26, the Department shall not:
         (a)   Participate in any form of political activity; or
         (b)   Be employed directly or indirectly for political purposes.
      (6)   The County Council shall not have any power of approval over
particular candidates for any position, but the County Council shall have
general statutory powers to determine the numbers of officers, deputies and
employees of county departments, classify positions and adopt schedules of
compensation pursuant to I.C. 36-2-5-3(a). Notwithstanding any other provision
of this chapter, with the exception of the Director, a compensated position may
not be established within the Department of Emergency Management, nor shall any
person be appointed to such position without authorization and sufficient
funding from the County Council.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
§ 33.22 DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT; DUTIES; BUDGET AND FINANCE.
   (A)   The Department, subject to the direction and control of the Director,
shall prepare and implement the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan,
including the following specific duties:
      (1)   Prepare and distribute to all appropriate officials a clear and
complete written statement of the emergency responsibilities of all local
agencies and officials and the disaster chain of command in accordance with
I.C. 10-14-3-17(1);
      (2)   Work closely with officers and employees of incorporated and
unincorporated areas of the county to develop a hazard mitigation program to
eliminate or reduce potential hazards;
      (3)   Write and implement the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan,
which shall conform to the guidelines contained in the most current state and
federal guidance documents, including requirements to adopt and utilize the
National Incident Management System and Incident Command System and the
requirements established in this chapter. As part of the preparation of this
Plan, the Department shall:
         (a)   Identify and analyze the effects of hazards that threaten the
county;
         (b)   Inventory manpower and material resources from governmental and
private sector sources that would be available in a disaster or emergency;
         (c)   Establish a system to alert key officials in event of a disaster
or emergency;
         (d)   Identify resource deficiencies and work with appropriate
officials on measures to correct them;
         (e)   Develop and maintain an emergency communications system, thus
assuring proper functioning of emergency communications throughout the county,
including all cities and towns;
         (f)   Take all actions necessary to ensure the continuity of
government procedures and systems in the event of a disaster;
         (g)   Establish and maintain a shelter and reception and care system
for both people and animals;
         (h)   Develop a training program for emergency response personnel
ensuring that mitigation, framing and exercising have been performed for all
such personnel; and
         (i)   Coordinate with industry to develop and maintain industrial
emergency plans and capabilities in support of the Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan.
      (4)   Update the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan as needed to
keep it current, as required by I.C. 10-14-3-17(h); and
      (5)   Develop a program to test and exercise the Emergency Plan.
   (B)   (1)   The Advisory Council shall advise the Director in the
preparation of the budget.
      (2)   The County Council shall appropriate such funds, as it may deem
necessary for the purpose of emergency management.
      (3)   All funds appropriated or otherwise available to the Department of
Emergency Management shall be administered by the Director.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
§ 33.23 COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN; FORMULATION; CONTENT AND
ADOPTION.
   (A)   A County Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, referred to as the
inter- jurisdictional disaster emergency plan by I.C. 10-14-3-17(h), shall be
adopted by resolution of the County Board of Commissioners. In the preparation
of this plan, as it pertains to county organization, it is the intent that the
services, equipment, facilities and personnel of all existing departments and
agencies shall be utilized to the fullest extent possible.
   (B)   The Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan shall include, at minimum,
the following:
      (1)   An administrative section, which includes:
         (a)   Authorities and directives;
         (b)   Terms and definitions;
         (c)    Acronyms/abbreviations; and
         (d)   Financial management.
      (2)   A hazards specific section, which includes:
         (a)   Unique hazards;
         (b)   Special events;
         (c)   Hazardous materials response plan developed by the local
emergency planning committee; and
         (d)   Terrorism element.
      (3)   An operations management section, which includes:
         (a)   Coordination and control emergency support function;
         (b)   Communications and warning emergency support function;
         (c)   Public information emergency support function;
         (d)   Resource support emergency support function; and
         (e)   Information and planning emergency support function.
      (4)   An emergency services management section, which includes:
         (a)   Law enforcement emergency support function;
         (b)   Firefighting emergency support function;
         (c)   Health and medical emergency support function;
         (d)   Search and rescue emergency support function; and
         (e)   Hazardous materials emergency support function.
      (5)   A human support management section, which includes:
         (a)   Evacuation emergency support function;
         (b)   Shelter/mass care emergency support function;
         (c)   Food and water emergency support function;
         (d)   Donations and volunteer manage-ment emergency support function;
and
         (e)   Animal health emergencies emergency support function.
      (6)   An infrastructure support management section, which includes:
         (a)   Public works/engineering emer-gency support function;
         (b)   Energy emergency support function;
         (c)   Damage assessment emergency support function; and
         (d)   Transportation emergency support function. In addition, all
emergency support function coordinating agencies, emergency service
organizations and supporting agencies within the county shall:
            1.   Develop standard operating procedures, standard operating
guides and checklists that are drafted subject to the requirements of the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
            2.   Coordinate standard operating procedures, standard operating
guides and checklists with the Department of Emergency Management;
            3.   Assure inclusion of the standard operating procedures,
standard operating guides and checklists within the County Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan;
            4.   Adopt, implement, utilize and train personnel in accordance
with the National Incident Management System (NIMS) and its incorporated
Incident Command System (ICS) as developed and implemented by the United States
Department of Homeland Security for responding to, managing and coordinating
multiple agency or multiple jurisdiction incidents, emergencies and disasters
whether single or multiple discipline;
            5.   Perform the functions and duties assigned by the County
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
            6.   Maintain their portion of the Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan in a current state of readiness at all times.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
§ 33.24 JURISDICTION; DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT, COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN AND POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided by §
33.22 of this chapter, the jurisdiction of the County Department of Emergency
Management shall be comprehensive and inclusive county-wide and effective in
both the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county.
   (B)   The jurisdiction and applicability of the County Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan, as adopted pursuant to §
33.23 of this chapter, and the exercise of any powers of the principal
executive officer of the county and of the County Board of Commissioners under
§§
33.40 through
33.50 of this chapter, shall be comprehensive and inclusive county-wide and
effective in both the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county.
   (C)   All political subdivisions in the county shall:
      (1)   If they develop a plan for their political subdivision:
         (a)   Ensure that the plan is consistent with the requirements of the
County Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
         (b)   Coordinate the development of the plan with the Department of
Emergency Management; and
         (c)   Ensure inclusion of the plan within the County Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan.
      (2)   Perform the functions and duties assigned by the County
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
      (3)   Maintain their portion of the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan in a current state of readiness at all times.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
§ 33.25 TESTS OF THE COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN; OTHER EMERGENCY
TESTS.
   (A)   Tests of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan may be conducted
at any time with or without prior notification to persons other than the
Director.
   (B)   All emergency tests conducted within the boundaries of the county
shall be coordinated with the Department.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
§ 33.26 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   In time of normal county operations, powers and duties of the County
Commissioners pertaining to emergency management shall be:
   (A)   Maintaining general supervision over the planning and administration
for the Department;
   (B)   Adopting the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (C)   Coordinating emergency management activities consistent with the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (D)   Making assignments of county personnel to emergency management
activities consistent with the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (E)   Making assignments of county personnel to emergency management duties
in order to meet situations not covered in the normal duties and powers of such
agencies consistent with the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (F)   Taking all necessary action in coordination with the Department to
conduct tests of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
   (G)   Educating themselves as to their responsibilities under the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
§ 33.27 COUNTY-WIDE MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT PROGRAM.
   The State General Assembly, in I.C. 10-14-3-7, provided for coordination of
activities related to disaster prevention, preparedness, response and recovery
and authorized public agencies in the state to enter into mutual aid
agreements.
   (A)   A county-wide mutual aid agreement program is established, as follows.
All county, township, city and town governmental units within the county are
considered to be participating units in the county-wide mutual aid agreement
program. As used in this section, UNIT has the meaning set forth in I.C. 36-1-
2-23. A unit may choose not to participate in the county-wide mutual aid
program if the unit:
      (1)   Adopts an ordinance or a resolution declaring that the unit will
not participate in the county-wide mutual aid agreement program; and
      (2)   Provides a copy of the ordinance or resolution to the Department of
Emergency Management.
   (B)   Each participating unit shall establish an incident management system
and a unified incident command system consistent with the National Incident
Management System to be used in a response to a disaster or an emergency where
mutual aid assistance may be requested. The incident command system shall be
utilized to provide structure for incident management so as to assure efficient
use of resources and the safety of emergency responders and the public.
   (C)   This mutual aid program may be activated for providing mutual support,
aid and assistance with or without a local declaration of a natural or human-
made emergency or disaster.
   (D)   A participating unit may request the assistance of at least one other
participating unit to:
      (1)   Manage disaster or emergency response or recovery (including the
conduct of necessary emergency operations); or
      (2)   Conduct disaster or emergency response or recovery exercises,
testing or framing.
   (E)   A request for assistance to a participating unit under division (D)
above shall be made by and to the executive of the unit or the executive’s
authorized representative. A request may be oral or in writing. An oral request
shall be confirmed in writing not later than 24 hours after the oral request is
made. A request for immediate assistance may be directed to the County
Emergency Communications Department (911 Center) or directly to the
participating units being requested to provide assistance.
   (F)   A request must include the following information:
      (1)   A description of the disaster or emergency response or recovery
functions for which assistance is needed;
      (2)   The amount and type of services, equipment, supplies, materials,
personnel and other resources needed and a reasonable estimate of the length of
time they will be needed; and
      (3)   The specific place and time for the staging of the assisting
participating unit’s provision of assistance and a point of contact at that
location.
   (G)   A participating unit that is requested to render assistance shall take
the necessary action to provide and make available the requested services,
equipment, supplies, materials, personnel and other resources.
   (H)   A participating unit’s obligation to provide assistance is subject to
the following restrictions: upon request for aid received as provided for in
division (E) above, the authorized officer of the participating unit rendering
the assistance will authorize a response as follows:
      (1)   The participating unit rendering the assistance will provide at
least the following personnel and equipment in response to the request:
         (a)   Minimum request: one appropriate unit with necessary personnel
and support equipment compliment; and
         (b)   Maximum response: 75% of personnel and resources available at
the time of the request to the participating unit rendering the assistance.
      (2)   Each participating unit’s response will be determined by the
severity of the emergency in the requesting unit’s jurisdiction as determined
by the senior officer of the participating unit rendering the assistance after
discussion with the senior officer of the requesting unit.
      (3)   If there is also an emergency in the jurisdiction of the
participating unit rendering the assistance at the time a request is made, or
such emergency occurs under this agreement, and the senior officer of the
responding party reasonably determines, after a consideration of the severity
of the emergency in his or her jurisdiction, that the responding party cannot
comply with the minimum requirements under this agreement without endangering
life and/or incurring significant property damage in his or her jurisdiction,
he or she may choose to use all equipment and personnel in his or her own
jurisdiction. In such case, the senior officer of the participating unit
rendering the assistance shall inform the senior officer of the requesting unit
of his or her decision.
      (4)   In cases where two or more requests for mutual aid assistance are
made at the same time, thereby making compliance with the minimum requirements
of this agreement impossible for the participating unit rendering the
assistance, the senior officer of the responding party shall determine, based
upon a his or her best professional judgment, how best to respond to the
requests. The senior officer may determine to send all assets available under
this agreement to the jurisdiction with the most dire emergency or he or she
may send some resources to each requesting jurisdiction. The senior officer
shall inform the requesting officer of the requesting unit of his or her
decision. In both situations outlined in this division (H)(4) where compliance
with the minimal duties of this agreement is impossible, the requesting unit or
units will not expect full compliance with those minimal duties, but will
expect a fair appraisal of the emergencies involved and a commensurate
response.
      (5)   The participating unit rendering the assistance may withhold
resources or recall loaned resources to the extent necessary to provide for the
unit’s own reasonable protection.
      (6)   Emergency forces providing assistance shall continue under the
command and control of their regular leaders, but operationally those forces
shall be under the control of the incident commander or unified command
designated by the requesting participating unit.
   (I)   It shall be the responsibility of the participating unit rendering the
assistance to know and communicate the level of training of their responders to
the incident commander, to see that all personnel responding to the request for
assistance are appropriately trained and responsible persons. The conduct and
actions of responding party personnel shall be the responsibility of the
participating unit rendering the assistance.
   (J)   The senior officer of the requesting unit shall in all instances be in
command of the emergency as to strategy, tactics and overall directions of the
operations. All orders or directions regarding the operations of the
participating unit rendering the assistance shall be relayed to the senior
officer in command of the responding party.
   (K)   The senior officer in command of the emergency forces from the
participating unit rendering the assistance shall retain control over his or
her personnel at the incident scene. Should he or she determine that any
direction given by the senior officer of the requesting party would result in
unsafe conditions for persons under his or her control, the senior officer in
command of the responding party shall have the authority to refuse such
direction.
   (L)   The participating unit rendering the assistance under the terms of
this agreement shall assure that its personnel drive their vehicles while in
the territory of the requesting party in compliance with all laws regarding
speed and at all times with due regard for the safety of all persons using the
highway.
   (M)   As provided in I.C. 10-14-3-10.7(f), officers and employees of a
participating unit rendering assistance to another participating unit shall be
considered agents of the requesting unit for purposes of tort liability and
immunity.
   (N)   As required by I.C. 10-14-3-18(a), when emergency personnel are sent
to another jurisdiction pursuant to this agreement, they will retain the
jurisdiction, authority, rights, privileges and immunities, including any
coverage under the worker’s compensation laws, that they have when they are on
duty in their home jurisdiction.
   (O)   The participating unit who requests mutual aid shall in no way be
deemed liable or responsible for the personal property of the members of the
participating unit rendering the assistance which may be lost, stolen or
damaged while performing their duties in responding under the terms of this
agreement.
   (P)   The participating units agree that the participating unit responding
to the request for mutual aid under the terms of this agreement shall assume
all liability and responsibility for damage to its own apparatus and/or
equipment while en route to or returning from the mutual aid response location.
The participating unit rendering the assistance shall also assume all liability
and responsibility for any damage caused by its own apparatus and/or negligence
of its personnel while en route to or returning from the mutual aid response
location.
   (Q)   The participating unit rendering assistance under the terms of this
agreement shall assume no responsibility or liability for property damaged or
destroyed or bodily injury at the actual scene of any emergency due to actions
which are required in responding under this agreement; said liability and
responsibility shall rest solely with the participating unit requesting such
aid and within whose boundaries the property exists or the incident occurs.
   (R)   An itemized claim for loss or damage to the equipment of the
participating unit rendering assistance at the response scene shall be filed
within 30 days of such loss or damage occurring. (Note: filing within 30 days
will help to ensure FEMA reimbursement in federally declared disasters.)
   (S)   Each participating unit shall provide for the payment compensation and
benefits to:
      (1)   An injured member; and
      (2)   A representative of a deceased member;
of the participating unit’s emergency forces if the member is injured or killed
while rendering assistance under this section in the same manner and under the
same terms as if the injury or death were sustained while the member was
rendering assistance for or within the member’s own unit. Expenses incurred
under this division (S) are not reimbursable.
   (T)   No compensation or reimbursement shall be paid by the participating
units under this agreement for mutual aid assistance rendered. The
participating units agree that the participating unit rendering the assistance
shall be responsible for the costs of maintenance and operation of its
equipment during the response.
   (U)   The participating units agree that no claim for compensation shall be
made against another for loss, damage or personal injury occurring as a
consequence of mutual aid assistance rendered under this agreement, and all
such rights or claims are hereby expressly waived by the parties as to one
another.
   (V)   The parties agree the value of labor and equipment if reimbursed would
be as follows.
      (1)   Labor rates.
         (a)   The straight time costs of the labor force of the participating
unit rendering assistance shall be reimbursed at the normal pay rates for the
responding personnel.
         (b)   The overtime costs of the labor force of the participating unit
rendering assistance shall be reimbursed at 150% of the normal pay rates for
the responding personnel if it is the normal practice of the requesting unit to
pay these personnel overtime.
         (c)   Under FEMA 9523.6, § 7.B.3, “If the providing [assisting party]
entity is staffed with volunteer labor, the value of the volunteer labor may be
credited to the non-federal cost share in accordance with the provisions of the
donated resources policy (#9525.2).”
      (2)   Reimbursements.
         (a)   The equipment reimbursement rates are the lesser of the
following:
            1.   The rate for equipment costs reimbursement established by the
U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency or
its successor agency; or
            2.   The equipment costs, established by the participating unit
rendering assistance.
         (b)   Under FEMA 9523.6, § 7.B.5, “If the agreement states that there
is no cost to the applicant - receiving the emergency assistance [typically the
requesting party], assistance may be credited to the non-Federal cost share
under the provisions of the Donated Resources policy (#9525.2).” Such
jurisdictions must still specify the value of the resources they receive and
fully document those values.
   (W)   The Advisory Council shall be responsible for administration of this
agreement.
   (X)   At least two participating units may enter into agreements
establishing a different allocation of loss, damage, expense or costs among
themselves than that specified herein. Copies of such supplemental agreements
shall be provided to the Department of Emergency Management.
   (Y)   This section does not prevent any participating unit from entering
into a mutual aid or other agreement with another unit or affect any other
agreement to which a unit is a party, including an agreement entered into under
this section or I.C. 36-1-7.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
§ 33.40 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply whenever:
   (A)   The Governor, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-12 has declared a disaster
emergency affecting all or part of the county;
   (B)   The principal executive officer of the county, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-
3-29(a) and §
33.42 of this chapter, is preparing to, or has declared a local disaster
emergency affecting all or part of the county; and/or
   (C)   The County Board of Commissioners has implemented a test of the
county’s Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan and procedures in accordance
with and to the extent necessary or dispensable to such test.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
§ 33.41 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS, DUTIES OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER;
DECLARATION OF LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCY.
   (A)   In the event of an actual or threatened disaster emergency affecting
the county, if feasible, the principal executive officer of the county shall
seek the advice and input of the Director as to the advisability of declaring a
local disaster emergency.
   (B)   If the County Board of Commissioners, acting as the principal
executive officer of the county, is the entity declaring the local disaster
emergency, then the statutory requirements contained in I.C. 36-2-2-8 and I.C.
5-14-1.5-5(d) regarding special and emergency meetings of the County Board of
Commissioner must be met.
   (C)   The principal executive officer of the county may, in the event of an
actual or threatened disaster emergency affecting the county declare a local
disaster emergency, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29(a). This declaration shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   State the nature of the disaster;
      (3)   State the conditions that have brought the disaster about;
      (4)   State the area or areas threatened;
      (5)   State the area or areas to which the local disaster emergency
declaration applies (this may include the entire county or only designated
parts thereof); and
      (6)   State the effective period of the local disaster emergency
declaration. The disaster declaration shall not be continued or renewed for a
period in excess of seven days, except by or with the consent of the County
Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   The declaration of a local disaster emergency, as well as any
continuation or termination of such declaration shall be:
      (1)   Announced or disseminated to the general public by the best means
available; and
      (2)   Filed promptly in the offices of the County Clerk, the County
Auditor and the Clerk of any incorporated municipality located in the declared
disaster area.
   (E)   The declaration shall not be invalidated or ineffective if any of the
filing and dissemination requirements cannot be complied with due to the
prevailing adverse circumstances.
   (F)   Upon a declaration, the county’s Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan or such component parts thereof as may be relevant to the emergency shall
be activated and implemented.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
§ 33.44 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; CONVENTION OF SPECIAL EMERGENCY MEETING.
   (A)   As allowed by I.C. 36-2-2-8 and I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(d), a special meeting
of the County Board of Commissioners shall be called as soon as possible after
the disaster emergency that affects the county has been declared, either by the
Governor or by the principal executive officer of the county, to perform their
legislative and administrative functions as the situation may demand.
   (B)   As required by I.C. 36-2-2-8(b) and I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(d), the following
conditions must be met for this meeting.
      (1)   The notice for the meeting must include a specific statement of the
purpose of the meeting.
      (2)   News media that have requested notice of meetings must be given the
same notice as is given the members of the County Board of Commissioners.
      (3)   The public must be notified of this meeting by posting a copy of
the notice at the principal office of the County Board of Commissioners, or if
no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is to be held.
      (4)   The County Board of Commissioners may not conduct any business at
this meeting that is unrelated to the disaster emergency declaration.
      (5)   All other such requirements that are applicable to a meeting that
is called to deal with an emergency.
   (C)   In addition, such a meeting may:
      (1)   Be held in any convenient and available place;
      (2)   Continue without adjournment for the duration of the disaster
emergency; and
      (3)   Be recessed for reasonable periods of time as necessary and
permitted by the circumstances.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
§ 33.43 PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER; SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   In the event that a disaster emergency has been declared that affects
all or part of the county, and a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners
cannot be assembled for purposes of the meeting needed under §
33.42 of this chapter, the principal executive officer of the county shall
have, on an interim basis, all powers of the County Board of Commissioners and
may take all such actions with respect to the disaster emergency declaration
that the County Board of Commissioners would have been authorized to take.
   (B)   When a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners is assembled, these
interim powers of the principal executive officer of the county shall cease.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
§ 33.44 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   At the meeting convened under §
33.42 of this chapter, the County Board of Commissioners may exercise any of
their normal executive and legislative powers to the extent related to the
emergency and necessary to deal therewith.
   (B)   In addition to the powers enumerated in §
33.45(A) of this chapter, the Board may also exercise any of the following
special and extraordinary powers.
      (1)   The County Board of Commissioners may extend the period of a local
disaster emergency declared by the principal executive officer of the county,
pursuant to §
33.41 of this chapter, to last more than seven days if necessary.
      (2)   The County Board of Commissioners may terminate the local disaster
emergency.
      (3)   The County Board of Commissioners may assemble and utilize
emergency management resources, including:
            1.   Personnel of the Department of Emergency Management;
            2.   Participating emergency services; and
            3.   Any other resources at the disposal of the Commissioners
hereunder for emergency management purposes.
      (4)   The County Board of Commissioners may order volunteer forces which
have been activated pursuant to the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan to
the aid of the county, state or political subdivisions thereof as soon as
practicable. These volunteer forces shall be under the direction of the
Department of Emergency Management.
      (5)   In order to control the local disaster emergency and provide for
public health, safety and welfare, the County Board of Commissioners may, to
the extent permitted by I.C. 10-14-3-31 and subject to its provisions, command
services and/or requisition the use of:
         (a)   Equipment;
         (b)   Facilities;
         (c)   Supplies; or
         (d)   Other property.
      (6)   The County Board of Commissioners may order the evacuation of all
or part of the population from stricken areas of the county, and prescribe:
         (a)   Routes;
         (b)   Modes of transportation; and
         (c)   Evacuation destinations.
      (7)   The County Board of Commissioners may make provision for
availability and use of temporary emergency housing, which housing need not
necessarily comply with any minimum housing standards, building or zoning
regulations and the like, which would govern the use and location of premises
for housing purposes during normal times.
      (8)   Except in accordance with §
33.45(B)(1) of this chapter, the County Board of Commissioners shall not
suspend any provisions of ordinances or procedures, which are mandated by
statute.
      (9)   In the event of a disaster emergency that has been declared by the
Governor, the County Board of Commissioners, in accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-17
(j)(5), may waive any procedures or requirements of statute, or of county
ordinances reflecting statutory requirements and mandates, pertaining to:
         (a)   The performance of public works;
         (b)   The entering into contracts;
         (c)   The incurring of obligations;
         (d)   The employment of permanent and temporary workers;
         (e)   The utilization of volunteer workers;
         (f)   The rental of equipment;
         (g)   The purchase and distribution of supplies, materials and
facilities; and
         (h)   The appropriation and expenditure of public funds.
      (10)   The County Board of Commissioners may assign any special emergency
duties and functions to county:
         (a)   Offices;
         (b)   Departments; and
         (c)   Agencies.
      (11)   Any unexpended and unencumbered moneys budgeted and appropriated,
but not otherwise dedicated by law to different purposes may, within the scope
of each major budget and appropriation category (major object classification),
be utilized and expended for the purpose of carrying out such special emergency
duties and functions.
      (12)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-22, the County Board of Commissioners may
make, amend and rescind such orders, rules and regulations as may be necessary
for emergency management purposes and to supplement the carrying out of the
provisions of this chapter. Such orders, rules and regulations:
         (a)   Cannot be inconsistent with any orders, rules or regulations
promulgated by the Governor or by any state agency exercising a power delegated
to it by the Governor;
         (b)   Cannot be inconsistent with the county’s Emergency Management
Program or Emergency Plan;
         (c)   Shall have full force and effect of law when filed in the office
of the County Clerk; and/or
         (d)   Are enforceable by any local or state law enforcing authority in
accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-24.
      (13)   The County Board of Commissioners may, in accordance with the
Emergency Plan, request the state or the United States or their agencies and
political subdivisions to send aid (including financial assistance) if the
situation is beyond the control of the regular and emergency county forces and
resources.
   (C)   All actions taken by the County Board of Commissioners under this
section shall be:
      (1)   Adopted by ordinance or resolution, pursuant I.C. 10-14-3-22; and
      (2)   Consistent with, and subordinate to, any actions, orders or
regulations made by the Governor or a state agency implementing the State
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
§ 33.45 COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; GENERAL DUTIES CONCERNING EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   All office holders, department heads and employees of the county shall
cooperate with and give active support to the County Commissioners and the
Director of Emergency Management in all emergency management functions and
emergency response operations and, shall comply with all orders of the
Commissioners and the Director of Emergency Management issued pursuant to this
chapter.
   (B)   All office holders and department heads of the county shall develop,
or cause to be developed, continuity of government (COG) (line of succession to
department head, authorities of successors and protection of vital records) and
continuity of operations (COOP) (contingency plan for maintaining operations
when primary office location or facility is damaged or otherwise unusable)
plans and supporting procedures to ensure the effective continued operation of
the office and county government in disaster emergencies. The office holder or
department head and the Director of Emergency Management shall review all such
plans and procedures at least annually.
   (C)   Office holders and department heads of county departments assigned
responsibilities as emergency support function coordinating agencies or as
supporting agencies under the county’s Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
shall comply with the requirements detailed in §
33.23(C) of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
§ 33.46 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES OF INCORPORATED AND UNINCORPORATED AREAS OF
COUNTY; GENERAL DUTIES CONCERNING EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Office holders and department heads of incorporated and
unincorporated areas of the county shall develop, or cause to be developed,
continuity of government (COG) (line of succession to department head,
authorities of successors and protection of vital records) and continuity of
operations (COOP) (contingency plan for maintaining operations when primary
office location or facility is damaged or otherwise unusable) plans and
supporting procedures to ensure the effective continued operation of the office
and local government in disaster emergencies.
      (2)   Office holders or department heads and the Director of Emergency
Management shall review all such plans and procedures at least annually.
   (B)   Office holders and department heads of incorporated and unincorporated
areas of the county assigned responsibilities as emergency support function
coordinating agencies or as supporting agencies under the county’s
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan shall comply with the requirements
detailed in §
33.23(C) of this chapter.
   (C)   During a declared disaster emergency, all officers and employees of
incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county shall:
      (1)   Cooperate with and give active support to the County Board of
Commissioners and the County Emergency Management Director; and
      (2)   Comply with all orders, rules and regulations issued pursuant to
this chapter by the County Board of Commissioners or the County Emergency
Management Director.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
§ 33.47 PRIORITY OF EMERGENCY ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   At all times when the orders, rules and regulations made and promulgated
according to this chapter shall be in effect, they supersede all existing
ordinances, orders, rules and regulations insofar as the latter may be
inconsistent therewith.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
§ 33.48 NON-COMPLIANCE WITH EMERGENCY ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS;
OBSTRUCTION OR IMPERSONATION OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AUTHORITIES.
   (A)   Whenever this chapter applies, it shall be unlawful and a penal
ordinance violation for any person to:
      (1)   Willfully obstruct, hinder or delay the County Board of
Commissioners, the Director of Emergency Management, participating emergency
services, authorized emergency management volunteers or other authorities from
implementing, carrying out and enforcing the Emergency Plan;
      (2)   Fail to observe, abide by and comply with any emergency management
duties, orders, regulations and procedures as made applicable to such person by
the appropriate authorities; or
      (3)   Falsely wear or carry identification as a member of the County
Department of Emergency Management or to otherwise falsely identify or purport
to be a county emergency management authority.
   (B)   Any regular or reserve police officer of the state or any of its
political subdivisions is hereby empowered to issue and serve a civil citation
against any person found to be committing an offense described above.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
§ 33.49 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY DURING DISASTER EMERGENCY OR EMERGENCY OR
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT TESTS.
   During an emergency management test or declared disaster emergency, the
county, the county’s assigned personnel, participating emergency services and
rostered emergency management volunteers shall be immune from liability to the
full extent provided by I.C. 10-14-3 and any other applicable law.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
§ 33.50 COMPENSATION FOR PROPERTY COMMANDEERED OR USED DURING DISASTER
EMERGENCY.
   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-31, compensation for property shall be paid only if
the property was commandeered or otherwise used in coping with a disaster
emergency and its use or destruction was ordered by the Governor or a member of
the disaster emergency forces of the state. Any person claiming compensation
for the use, damage, loss or destruction of such property shall make a claim
for it. This claim shall be filed and adjudicated as provided in I.C. 32-24.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who commits an offense against this chapter shall be liable to a
fine of $2,500; such fine to be subject, however, to the discretion of the
court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2005-007, passed 8-17-2005)
CHAPTER 34: COUNTY SERVICES AND POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Ambulance service; Commissioners’ authority
   
34.02   Identification/security cards
   
34.03   Water-marking bulk form copies
   
34.04   Multi-hazard mitigation plan
   
34.05   Credit card payments
Portable Electronic Devices in County Court House
   
34.15   Definition
   
34.16   General exclusion
   
34.17   County-provided temporary storage facilities
   
34.18   Groups or persons exempted; rules
   
34.19   Suspension of modification of exemptions from applicability
   
34.20   Violation
Equal Opportunity and Equitable Service
   
34.35   Introduction
   
34.36   Mission statement
   
34.37   Non-discrimination statement
   
34.38   Assurances
   
34.39   Compliance responsibilities
   
34.40   Compliance review processing
   
34.41   External complaint processing
   
34.42   Public involvement and outreach
   
34.43   Manuals, directives and guidance
   
34.44   Limited English proficiency
   
34.45   Annual work plan
   
34.46   Forms and the like
Purchasing Policy
   
34.60   Policy statement
   
34.61   Definitions
   
34.62   Purchase of supplies and equipment
   
34.63   Exceptions
   
34.64   Services
   
34.65   Professional services
   
34.66   Procedures for opening responses to requests for quotes
   
34.67   Request for qualifications
   
34.68   Adoption of local Indiana Business Preference Policy
   
34.69   Use of credit cards for county purchases
   
34.70   Emergency purchases
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 AMBULANCE SERVICE; COMMISSIONERS’ AUTHORITY.
   The Board of Commissioners of the county, as the county executive, is
authorized to contract and in addition thereto pay claims in accordance with
written specifications with and to private persons, entities or corporations to
provide regular or emergency ambulance service within the county.
(1982 Code, § 22.01) (Ord. passed 8-9-1982)
§ 34.02 IDENTIFICATION/SECURITY CARDS.
   (A)   All current county elected officials, department heads, employees and
building tenants shall, on or before, 3-1-2005 obtain an ID card from the
Sheriff of the county or his or her designated deputy.
   (B)   All new county elected officials, department heads, employees and
building tenants shall, in conjunction with their orientation for employment or
service with the county, obtain a proxy card from the Sheriff of the county or
his or her designated deputy.
   (C)   (1)   All county elected officials, department heads, employees and
building tenants shall be given their first ID cards without charge.
      (2)   An elected official, department head, employee or building tenant
who needs to have his or her ID card replaced, for any reason other than an
update of the security system by the Sheriff of the county, shall pay a
replacement fee of $5.
      (3)   An elected official, department head, employee or building tenant
shall report to the Sheriff of the county within one business day of
discovering his or her ID card is lost, stolen, mutilated or, for any reason
other than an update of the security system by the Sheriff, needs to be
replaced.
   (D)   Every elected official, department head, employee and building tenant
shall conspicuously wear on his or her person his or her ID card at all times
he or she is on duty in the county buildings.
(Res. 2005-004, passed 2-16-2005)
§ 34.03 WATER-MARKING BULK FORM COPIES.
   The Recorder shall water-mark all bulk form copies with the following: “THIS
DOCUMENT IS PROVIDED FOR THE SOLE USE OF (insert bulk user name) AND, EXCEPT AS
PROVIDED FOR IN I.C. 36-2-7-10.1(h), SHALL NOT BE RESOLD, PURSUANT TO I.C. 36-
2-7-10.1. OFFICIAL COPIES MAY BE OBTAINED AT THE COUNTY RECORDER’S OFFICE.”
(Ord. 2018-003, passed 2-21-2018)
§ 34.04 MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   (A)   The County Commissioners hereby adopt the County Multi-Hazard
Mitigation Plan as an official plan.
   (B)   The County Department of Homeland Security will submit on behalf of
the participating municipalities the adopted Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan to
the State Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency Management
Agency for final review and approval.
(Res. 2017-015, passed 7-12-2017)
§ 34.05 CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS.
   Council is willing to permit the acceptance of credit card payments to the
Department and Commission from its client constituents in accordance with the
following terms and conditions:
   (A)   If there is a charge to the Department or Commission for the use of a
credit card, the Department and Commission shall collect the amount of that
charge from the person who uses the particular credit card.
   (B)   The Department and Commission may contract with a bank card or credit
card vendor for the acceptance of bank or credit cards provided by the vendor.
However, if there is a vendor transaction charge or discount fee, whether
billed to the Department or Commission or charged directly to the Department’s
or Commission’s account, the Department and Commission shall collect from the
person using the card an official fee that may not exceed the highest
percentage transaction charge or discount fee charged to the Department and
Commission by the bank or credit card vendors during the most recent collection
period.
(Res. 2019-01, passed 1-2-2019)
PORTABLE ELECTRONIC DEVICES IN COUNTY COURT HOUSE
§ 34.15 DEFINITION.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the term PED is defined to include, but not
necessarily be limited to, any portable or mobile device capable of
electronically storing, accessing, sending, copying, photographing, videoing or
transmitting images or any form of information/data. The term includes, among
other devices, a transportable computer or laptop of any size, an electronic
tablet or notebook, a cell phone, smartphone, smartwatch or other wireless
phone of any type or character, an iPad, iPod, paging device, personal digital
assistant, audio or video recording device, Bluetooth, camera or other
photographic, video or audio equipment of any type or character, a scanner or
any other device that is capable of providing Internet access or any other
similar device.
(Ord. 2018-001, passed 1-10-2018)
§ 34.16 GENERAL EXCLUSION.
   This subchapter prohibits the possession or use of PEDs at any location
within the confines of the County Court House, 301 East Main Street, Richmond,
Indiana, unless such possession and use are specifically excepted from the
operation of this subchapter by the terms set forth herein. This subchapter is
intended to be consistent with the terms and provisions of any rule promulgated
by the members of the county judiciary and/or by the State Supreme Court, as
such rules or restrictions would apply to the courtrooms and judicial offices
located within said Court House. If any provision of this subchapter is
contradicted by or in any material manner found to be in conflict with the
provision(s) of any such judicially enacted rule or restriction, the provisions
of the judicial rule or restriction shall be operable and shall be deemed to
supersede the contradictory term(s) or provision(s) of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2018-001, passed 1-10-2018)
§ 34.17 COUNTY-PROVIDED TEMPORARY STORAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   The county has procured and will provide any patron desiring to enter
the premises of the county Court House with a temporary storage facility
located near the eastern entrance to the building wherein the patron may place
his or her PED during the period of the patron’s visit to the Court House. Use
of such county-owned storage facilities is entirely voluntary. Any patron
seeking to enter the Court House with a PED will be denied admission and
directed to either return the device to the patron’s vehicle or to place it in
one of the county-provided temporary storage facilities.
   (B)   Any patron using the county-owned temporary storage facilities agrees
to the following terms associated with such usage.
      (1)   A patron’s use of a particular county-owned storage facility may
not be exclusive and may be shared with other patrons engaging in similar
temporary storage of other PEDs.
      (2)   Any patron using a county-owned temporary storage facility does so
at his or her risk for damage, loss, theft or other injury to the patron’s PED.
The patron’s use of the county-owned temporary storage facility shall be deemed
to be the creation of a bailment that is exclusively beneficial to the patron.
By such usage, the patron is deemed to have fully released and discharged
county, it agents, officers (including the security officers posted at the
entrance to the county Court House), employees and officials from any claim for
loss, damage, theft or destruction (whether in whole or in part) to the
patron’s PED.
(Ord. 2018-001, passed 1-10-2018)
§ 34.18 GROUPS OR PERSONS EXEMPTED; RULES.
   (A)   The following groups or persons are exempted from the provisions of
this subchapter prohibiting possession of PEDs within the county Court House:
      (1)   Judicial officers of the state, of the federal judiciary or any
judicial officer of any other state or territory of the United States;
      (2)   Active members in good standing of the State Bar or of a foreign
state’s Bar who present to Court House security identification or other indicia
or proof of their status as an active member of the State Bar or the Bar of a
foreign state, together with recent photographic identification;
      (3)   Staff employed by an attorney who is exempted in accordance with
division (A)(2) above, including paralegals, if such staff person is there to
assist the attorney and in all such cases, only on those days when the attorney
is also present in court;
      (4)   Current county employees, local court employees and elected county
officials with a valid County Sheriff-issued photo identification card;
provided that, this exemption shall not entitle such employees or county
officials to possess a PED within any of the courtrooms of the county Court
House without the prior consent of the presiding judge in such courtroom;
      (5)   Current local, state or federal law enforcement officers while on
official business with recent and valid governmentally-issued photographic
identification;
      (6)   Vendors, service providers, builders, craftsmen and their employees
who are engaged in the repair, restoration or equipment installations of the
county Court House or its mechanical systems and who are approved by the
current president of the County Board of County Commissioners, while in the
course of performance of their work and trade; provided that, this exemption
shall not entitle such persons to possess a PED within any of the courtrooms of
the county Court House without the prior consent of the presiding judge in such
courtroom;
      (7)   Land record title searchers who have received an exemption from the
operation of this subchapter by the current president of the County Board of
County Commissioners or from a currently sitting County Judge; provided that,
this exemption shall not entitle such persons to possess a PED within any of
the courtrooms of the county Court House without the prior consent of the
presiding judge in such courtroom;
      (8)   Jurors or prospective jurors who possess and present to Court House
security a valid juror summons or badge which exemption authorizes possession
and use of such PEDs only outside of any county courtroom or jury deliberation
room;
      (9)   Individuals otherwise permitted by law to possess such PEDs or as
otherwise approved by a sitting County Judge; and
      (10)   Any person who would qualify under any of the above listed
exemptions that is known to be so exempt by reason of the that person’s prior
interactions with members of the Court House security staff may be permitted
entry into the Court House, in the discretion of the on-duty Court House
security staff member, without having to again present identification or other
exemption-qualifying documentation. This discretion permitted the Court House
security staff shall not be exercised during any period in which there is a
declaration of a heightened level of Court House security declared pursuant to
§
34.19 of this chapter.
   (B)   Use of PEDs by members or persons listed above as being exempt from
the operation of this subchapter are still subject to the following limitations
and restrictions on their use of PEDs.
      (1)   PEDs may be used by exempted persons or groups to retrieve or store
information, to access the Internet; to send and receive text messages or
information or to send and/or receive telephone calls only when outside the
confines of the courtroom.
      (2)   PEDs may not be used while in the courtroom, judicial offices or
judges’ chambers for any purpose without the prior consent of the presiding
judge in such office, courtroom or chambers. Attorneys, their staff, parties,
jurors and other exempt persons must silence their PEDs while they are in the
courtroom.
      (3)   Use of cameras, video recording devices or audio recording
equipment of any type or character is prohibited in the courtroom except for
ceremonial functions that are pre-approved by a currently sitting County Judge.
      (4)   Any allowed use of a PED that is permitted by the apparent
applicability of this subchapter may be terminated in the discretion of the
presiding judge if, in the judge’s sole discretion, the use is found to be
disruptive or distracting to a court proceeding or is otherwise contrary to the
effective administration of justice.
(Ord. 2018-001, passed 1-10-2018)
§ 34.19 SUSPENSION OF MODIFICATION OF EXEMPTIONS FROM APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Any apparent rights or privileges seemingly permitting the possession
and/or use of PEDs pursuant to the provisions of §
34.18 of this chapter are subject to suspension, limitation or modification
without notice in the event that the U.S. Marshal’s Service, the State Supreme
Court, any of the judges of the County Judiciary or an appropriate federal
agency declares that there is a need for a heightened level of security at the
county Court House.
   (B)   In the event of any such declaration the party first receiving notice
of such declaration (e.g., a member of the county judiciary or the County
Sheriff or a member of the Board of Commissioners) shall attempt to notify
representatives of the other affected parties before or as soon after such
declaration and suspension of the procedures set forth herein as is
practicable.
(Ord. 2018-001, passed 1-10-2018)
§ 34.20 VIOLATION.
   Any person found to be in possession of a PED within the county Court House
in violation of the terms of this subchapter shall be asked to leave and
escorted from the building by a member of the Court House security staff.
Violation of the terms of this subchapter shall be deemed to give rise for
probable cause for any such member of the Court House security staff to examine
the content of any materials contained in the violator’s PED. In a proper case,
unauthorized possession and/or use of a PED contrary to the restrictions set
out in any judicial rule of the county judiciary and/or the State Supreme Court
may subject the violator to prosecution for contempt of court, in accordance
with the applicable provisions of state law.
(Ord. 2018-001, passed 1-10-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY AND EQUITABLE SERVICE
§ 34.35 INTRODUCTION.
   This plan is part of the county government’s ongoing effort to comply with
civil rights regulations. This document communicates the county government’s
intent to proactively meet and exceed minimum compliance requirements
established under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (Title VI), 49
C.F.R. part 26, and the related anti-discrimination statues and regulations.
The county strives to provide continued transparency, clarity and technical
guidance for internal and external constituents regarding its Title VI program.
(Res. 2016-001, passed 1-6-2016)
§ 34.36 MISSION STATEMENT.
   The county will implement compliance with Title VI (49 C.F.R. part 26) and
its related statues and regulations to ensure that no person is excluded from
participation in, denied the benefits of or subject to discrimination under any
program or activity receiving federal financial assistance from the U.S.
Department of Transportation (DOT) on the grounds of race, color or national
origin, disability, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, age,
low income status or limited English proficiency.
(Res. 2016-001, passed 1-6-2016)
§ 34.37 NON-DISCRIMINATION STATEMENT.
   (A)   The county government values each individual’s civil rights and wishes
to provide equal opportunity and equitable service for the citizens of the
county.
   (B)   As a recipient of federal funds, the county is required to conform to
Title VI and all related statutes, regulations and directives, which provide
that no person shall be excluded from participation in, denied benefits of, or
subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving federal
financial assistance from the Department of Transportation (DOT) on the grounds
of race, color, national origin, disability, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, religion, age, low income status or limited English proficiency.
(Res. 2016-001, passed 1-6-2016)
§ 34.38 ASSURANCES.
   (A)   There are standard U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) assurances
that outline the county government’s guarantee for compliance with Title VI of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964 as a recipient of federal financial assistance.
   (B)   The specific federal and county assurances are available from the
county. These assurances are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
herein as if set out in full.
(Res. 2016-001, passed 1-6-2016)
§ 34.39 COMPLIANCE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Title VI Coordinator and ADA Coordinator. The Title VI Coordinator and
ADA Coordinator work together to oversee the coordination of the county
government’s compliance with Title VI and § 504 statues, regulations and
directives. These Coordinators report directly to the County Commissioners. The
Coordinators’ responsibilities included:
      (1)   Implementing the county’s Title VI and Americans with Disability
Act (ADA) Transition Plans;
      (2)   Assisting with the development of protocol and procedures for the
investigation of complaints filed under Title VI and ADA;
      (3)   Coordinating Title VI and ADA program development with Title VI/ADA
liaisons;
      (4)   Preparing required reports as necessary;
      (5)   Participating in the design, development and dissemination of Title
VI and ADA to the public; and
      (6)   Updating the county’s Title VI Implementation Plan and ADA
Transition Plan, as required.
   (B)   Title VI/ADA Liaisons. This team is composed of department heads from
each department in the county and are responsible for:
      (1)   Ensure compliance with Title VI and related non-discrimination
laws;
      (2)   Remove programmatic and architectural barriers from programs and
activities in accordance with relevant non-discrimination laws;
      (3)   Ensure meaningful access to county services and programs to
minorities, persons with limited English proficiencies and low-income persons;
and
      (4)   Provide input in the development and review of the Title VI and ADA
implementation plans.
   (C)   Coordinator contact information. All concerns should be directed to
the Title VI or ADA Coordinators.
(Res. 2016-001, passed 1-6-2016)
§ 34.40 COMPLIANCE REVIEW PROCESSING.
   Once formally adopted, county government will provide an internal assessment
of its Title VI compliance efforts.
(Res. 2016-001, passed 1-6-2016)
§ 34.41 EXTERNAL COMPLAINT PROCESSING.
   County government will promptly investigate all properly submitted
complaints of alleged discrimination. The county will also attempt to resolve
such complaints and take corrective action upon a finding of a substantiated
complaint.
   (A)   Complaint investigation procedures.
      (1)   The Title VI and ADA Coordinators will make a determination to
accept, reject or refer to the appropriate agency a complaint within seven
working days of its receipt. County government will determine whether the
person or entity purportedly engaged in the alleged discriminatory act is a
sub-recipient of federal funds. If the complaint does not specifically mention
that the alleged discriminatory actor is a sub-recipient of federal funds,
county government may presume so in deciding whether to accept the complaint
for further processing.
      (2)   These procedures apply to all complaints filed under: Title VI of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and its related statutes, regulations and
directives; the Americans with Disability Act of 1990, as amended; and § 504 of
the Vocational Rehabilitation Act of 1973. These procedures do not affect the
right of the complainant to file formal complaints with other state or federal
agencies, or to seek private counsel for complaints alleging discrimination.
These procedures are part of an administrative process that does not provide
for remedies that include punitive damages or compensatory remuneration for the
complainant.
      (3)   County government will make every effort to facilitate a voluntary
early resolution of complaints at the lowest level possible. The county may
exercise the option of informal resolution at any stage of the process.
   (B)   Who may file a complaint. Any person who believes that he or she has
been excluded from participation in, denied the benefits of or otherwise
subjected to discrimination under any county government service, program or
activity whether federally funded or not, based on their race, color, national
origin, disability, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, age,
low income status or limited English proficiency may file a complaint. A
complainant’s representative may also file a complaint on behalf of such a
person.
   (C)   Timeliness of complaints. For a complaint to be considered timely, it
must be filed within 180 calendar days after the alleged incident has occurred.
The file date of a complaint is the earlier of the postmark or date received by
county government.
   (D)   Location/availability of complaint forms. County government will make
complaint forms available online via the county website. Additionally, persons
may contact the Title VI or ADA Coordinators to request a copy of the complaint
form via email, facsimile or United States mail. Copies of complaint forms in
alternative formats will be available upon request.
   (E)   How to file a complaint. A person may file his or her complaint by
mail, facsimile or email. Any person with a disability may request to file his
or her complaint using an alternative format. County government will
acknowledge a complaint received by facsimile or email and will formally
process it once the county receives the signed, original document. County
government recommends, but does not require, the complainant to use the county
complaint form for submitting his or her complaint.
   (F)   Elements of a complete complaint.
      (1)   A complete complaint is written and signed. Verbal complaints must
be reduced to writing and provided to the complainant for confirmation, review
and signature before processing. The complaint form is available from the
county and on the county website. A complete complaint is filed within 180
calendar days of the alleged discriminatory act(s) and includes, at a minimum,
the following:
         (a)   The full name and address of the complainant;
         (b)   The full name and address of the respondent, the individual,
agency, department or program that allegedly discriminated against complainant;
and
         (c)   A description of the alleged discriminatory act(s) that violated
Title VI (i.e., an act of intentional discrimination or one that has the effect
of discriminating on the basis of race, color, national origin, disability,
sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, age, low-income status or
limited English proficiency) and the date of occurrence.
      (2)   The following are not acceptable as a complete complaint:
         (a)   Anonymous complaint(s);
         (b)   Inquiries seeking advice or information;
         (c)   Newspaper articles;
         (d)   Courtesy copies of court pleadings;
         (e)   Courtesy copies of complaints addressed to other agencies; and/
or
         (f)   Oral complaints.
   (G)   Processing complaints. The Title VI or ADA Coordinators will process
all complaints and shall:
      (1)   Maintain a log of all complaints;
      (2)   Acknowledge receipt of a complaint and inform the complainant of
the action taken or proposed action to be taken to process the complaint;
      (3)   Inform respondent of the allegations and request a position
statement and response to ail aspects of the complainant’s allegations;
      (4)   Coordinate the investigation; and
      (5)   Contact the complainant at the conclusion of the investigation.
   (H)   Corrective action.
      (1)   If county government recommends corrective action, the county will
give the respondent 30 calendar days to respond with their plan to bring them
into compliance. The Title VI or ADA Coordinators shall monitor the progress of
the respondent’s corrective action plan.
      (2)   Corrective action may include performance that the respondent must
complete at a future date, apart from the initial 30-day time frame, and must
include the projected date of completion.
      (3)   If the respondent has not complied with the recommended corrective
action within the allowed time frame, county government will take appropriate
action to bring the respondent into compliance with Title VI and its
implementing regulations. Non-compliance not corrected by informal means as
described above may be subject to sanctions as per 49 C.F.R. § 21.13.
   (I)   Pre-investigation/administrative closures.
      (1)   It is the general practice of county government to investigate all
complete complaints; however, the county may administratively close a complaint
at its discretion.
      (2)   The types of complaints that may be administratively closed and not
investigated include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Complaints that fall to state a claim or provide any substantial
or coherent claim;
         (b)   Complaints that are outside the scope of the county’s Title VI
jurisdiction;
         (c)   Untimely complaints filed more than 180 days after the alleged
discriminatory acts;
         (d)   Complaints voluntarily withdrawn by the complainant;
         (e)   Complaints in which the investigation has been impaired by the
county’s inability to locate and speak with the complainant;
         (f)   Complaints that are a continuation of a pattern of previously
filed complaints involving the same or similar allegations against the same
recipient, or other recipients that repeatedly have been found factually or
legally unsubstantiated by county government;
         (g)   Complaints containing the same allegations and issues that have
been addressed in a recently closed complaint or compliance review conducted by
county government;
         (h)   Complaints containing allegations that are foreclosed by
previous decisions by federal courts, Department of Justice or county policy
determinations;
         (i)   Complaints filed for complainants or parties who refuse to
cooperate with the investigation and whose lack of cooperation substantially
impairs the completion of the investigation; and
         (j)   Complaints where the death of a complainant makes it impossible
to fully investigate the allegations.
      (3)   County government shall notify the complainant in writing when a
determination is made to administratively close a case without further
investigation. The notification shall include an explanation of the basis for
the administrative closure.
   (J)   Confidentiality. In accordance with DOT Order 1000.12, county
government shall keep all complainants’ identities confidential except to the
extent necessary for carrying out an investigation. If an investigator
determines that it is necessary to disclose the complainant’s identity to the
responder or a third party, the investigator must first obtain the
complainant’s written permission.
   (K)   Records. County government shall maintain all records of an
investigation in a confidential area for three years after the completion of
the investigation following the state’s General Records Retention and
Disposition Schedule.
(Res. 2016-001, passed 1-6-2016)
§ 34.42 PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT AND OUTREACH.
   (A)   Website. County government will upgrade its website for better public
functionality and access to important Title VI and ADA information.
   (B)   Data collection.
      (1)   County government from time to time will utilize a voluntary public
involvement survey to collect information regarding persons affected by
proposed projects. The survey permits respondents to remain anonymous, while
voluntarily answering questions regarding their gender, ethnicity, race, age,
disability status and household income.
      (2)   County government may make this survey available at all public
hearings and meetings. Completed surveys shall be retained for a period of
three years from the date of the meeting and/or completion of the related
project, if applicable.
(Res. 2016-001, passed 1-6-2016)
§ 34.43 MANUALS, DIRECTIVES AND GUIDANCE.
   (A)   County government will incorporate Title VI policy and mission
statements into its employee handbook for the next revision: “Wayne County
Title VI Policy Statement: Wayne County government values each individual’s
civil rights and will provide equal opportunity and equitable service for the
citizens of this county. As a recipient of federal funds, Wayne County is
required to conform to Title VI and all related statutes, regulations and
directives, which provide that no person shall be excluded from participation
in, denied benefits of or subjected to discrimination under any program or
activity receiving federal financial assistance from the Department of
Transportation (DOT) on the grounds of race, color, national origin,
disability, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, age, low-income
status or limited English proficiency.”
   (B)   County government will continue to develop additional manuals and
directives as needed to provide guidance regarding Title VI and ADA compliance
and will be made available where appropriate.
(Res. 2016-001, passed 1-6-2016)
§ 34.44 LIMITED ENGLISH PROFICIENCY.
   (A)   On 8-11-2000, President William J. Clinton signed an executive order,
“Executive Order 13166: Improving Access to Service for Persons with Limited
English Proficiency”, to clarify Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. It
had as its purpose, to ensure accessibility to programs and services to
otherwise eligible persons who are not proficient in the English language.
   (B)   County government endeavors to serve its residents to the best of its
ability. To accommodate these individuals, county government provides, upon
request, services to assist the limited English proficiency (LEP) population
including translation of vital documents, interpretation services and
alternative public outreach media.
(Res. 2016-001, passed 1-6-2016)
§ 34.45 ANNUAL WORK PLAN.
   (A)   This section shall be visited annually to provide an update on the
status of the previous year’s work plan.
   (B)   This section outlines annual goals set forth by county government to
comply with Title VI and ADA requirements and statutes. This is not a
comprehensive list. It will be monitored regularly for updates and additions.
(Res. 2016-001, passed 1-6-2016)
§ 34.46 FORMS AND THE LIKE.
   Specific forms are adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set
out in full. The forms are available from the county.
(Res. 2016-001, passed 1-6-2016)
PURCHASING POLICY
§ 34.60 POLICY STATEMENT.
   (A)   Wayne County (hereinafter referred as the "county") is a political
subdivision of the State of Indiana and is governed by the state's public
purchasing statutes including, but not limited to, the "Public Purchasing Law"
found at I.C. 5-22-1-1 et seq., (the "Act"). In addition to the Act, the
county's purchasing activities are further governed by executive orders, local
ordinances, and resolutions of the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The county has adopted the following policies and procedures to be
applicable to the purchase of goods and services in accordance with Indiana
Code. Pursuant to Ordinance No. 2022-013, these policies and procedures apply
to all county departments, boards, and commissions.
   (C)   If the policy refers to a section in Indiana Code, the information
provided is for informational purposes only. Should any provision of this
policy be contrary to any express provision of the Act, the terms of the Act
will supersede the relevant provision(s) of this policy.
(Ord. 2022-013, passed 12-28-2022)
§ 34.61 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The following terms have meanings specific to the purchasing statutes,
where used in this procurement policy, the following terms shall mean:
      POLICY. This Purchasing Policy.
      PROFESSIONAL SERVICES. Services performed by and licensed architects,
professional engineers, or surveyors, or professional surveyor in connection
with the architect's, engineer's, or surveyor's professional employment or
practice (see I.C. 5-16-11.1-2).
      PURCHASE. Includes to buy, procure, rent, lease, or otherwise acquire.
The term includes:
         (a)   A description of requirements (specifications, delivery terms,
etc.);
         (b)   Solicitation or selection of sources from which purchase will be
made;
         (c)   Preparation and award of the purchase contract;
         (d)   All phases of contract administration; and
         (e)   All functions that pertain to the purchasing process through
acceptance of purchased supplies or services.
      PURCHASING AGENCY. The body authorized to enter into contract by Indiana
Code, by rules adopted by the governmental body or another law. For purposes of
this policy, the Board of Commissioners is the Purchasing Agency for the
county, pursuant Ordinance No. 2022-013.
      PURCHASING AGENT. A person authorized by the purchasing agency to
function as an agent for the purchasing agency in the administration of the
duties of the purchasing agency. The Board of Commissioners, any elected county
official, each Department Head, and/or any of their designees shall function as
purchasing agents for that office or department.
      SERVICES. The furnishing of labor, time, or effort by a person, not
involving the delivery of specific supplies other than printed documents or
other items that are merely incidental to the required performance.
      SUPPLIES. Any property, including equipment, goods, and materials. Does
not include real property.
   (B)   Note: Unless otherwise noted, the foregoing definitions are taken from
the relevant definitional provisions found in the Act. Subsequent amendments to
any of the foregoing definitional provisions found in a particular subsection
of the Act will be deemed applicable to and amendatory of the respective
corresponding definitions found herein.
(Ord. 2022-013, passed 12-28-2022)
§ 34.62 PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT.
Purchase Amount Procedure Final Approval Required Form
Purchase      Procedure                                                                             Final Approval
Amount                                                                                              Required Form
              A purchasing agent shall follow the procedures below in awarding a contract for
              supplies unless another purchasing method is required or authorized under I.C. 5-22
              et seq.
              Invitation for bids shall mean all documents, whether attached or incorporated by
              reference, used for soliciting bids. I.C. 5-22-2-14.
              Invitation for Bids (See I.C. 5-22-7-2):
              The purchasing agent shall issue an invitation for bids, which must include each of
              the following:
              •   A purchase description.
              •   All contractual terms and conditions that apply to the purchase.
              •   The time and place for opening bids.
              •   A statement concerning whether bids must be accompanied by a certified check or
              other evidence of fiscal responsibility that may be imposed in accordance with the
              county's rules, policies, or practices.
              •   A statement concerning whether a bid may be cancelled or rejected in whole or in
              part.
              •   A statement of criteria that will be used to evaluate bids.
              Notice of Invitation for Bids (See I.C. 5-22-7-5)
              •   Invitations must meet public notice publication requirements. (See I.C. 5-3-1).
              •   The county may provide electronic access to the notice through the computer
              gateway administered by the State Office of Technology or any other electronic means
              available to the county.
              Potential Bid Evaluation Criteria may include:
              •   Inspection of samples or prototypes
              •   Testing of samples or prototypes
              •   Quality of samples or prototypes
              •   Workmanship of samples or prototypes
              •   Delivery
              •   Suitability for a particular purpose
              •   Evaluation criteria that will affect bid prices and be considered in the
              evaluation for an award must be objectively measurable (See I.C. 5-22-7-3).
              •   Only criteria specified in the invitation for bids may be used in the bid
Purchases     evaluation process. (See I.C. 5-22-7-4).
more than     Opening, Accepting, and Awarding Bids:                                                Board of
$150,000 (See •   Bids must be opened by the purchasing agency:                                Commissioners
I.C. 5-22-7)     o   Publicly;
                 o   In the presence of one or more witnesses; and
                 o   At the time and place designated in the invitation for bids.
                 o   See I.C. 5-22-7-6.
              •   Generally, bids must be unconditionally accepted without alteration or correction
              (See I.C. 5-22-7-7). The following exceptions may apply:
                 o   If a bidder inserts contract terms or bids on items not specified in the
              invitation for bids, the purchasing agent must treat the additional terms as a
              proposal for addition to the contract and either:
                    •   Declare the bidder nonresponsive;
                    •   Permit the bidder to withdraw the proposed additions in order to meet the
              requirements provided in the invitation to bid; or
                    •   Accept any of the proposed additions.
                 o   If the purchasing agency decides to accept proposed additions, the additions
              must not be prejudicial to the interest of the county or fair competition. That
              decision must be supported by a written determination by the purchasing agency. (See
              I.C. 5-22-7-11)
                 o   A decision to permit a change to the requirements of the invitation for bids
              must be supported by the written determination of the purchasing agency citing the
              basis therefor.
              •   A contract shall be awarded with reasonable promptness by written notice to the
              lowest responsible and responsive bidder. (See I.C. 5-22-7-8).
              Maintaining Information (See I.C. 5-22-7-9):
              •   The purchasing agency must maintain the following:
                 o   The name and address of each bidder;
                 o   The amount of each bid; and,
                 o   Other information required by statute, rules or practices adopted by the
              county.
              The foregoing information is subject to public inspection after the contract is
              awarded. All records shall be maintained by the respective Elected Official,
              purchasing agent, or by the County Commissioners for purchases made by County
              Department Heads under the direct supervision of the Commissioners. Copies of such
              documents shall be forwarded to the County Auditor timely upon the Auditor's request.
              •   A purchasing agent may invite quotes from at least three persons known to deal in
              the lines or classes of supplies to be purchased.
              •   Invitations for quotes shall be in writing and mailed/emailed to those three
              persons at least seven days before the time fixed for receiving quotes. All quotes
              should be submitted in written form and submitted to the purchasing agent in a sealed
              form with identifying information as to the quote on the exterior envelop or
              container.
Purchases at  •   All quotes shall be opened by the purchasing agency on the date and at the time
least $50,000 set out in the invitation.
and not more  •   If a satisfactory quote is received, the purchasing agency shall award the   Board of
than $150,000 contract to the lowest responsible and responsive offeror or reject all quotes. If    Commissioners
(See I.C. 5-  the purchasing agency rejects all quotes, the reasons for such rejection(s) should be
22-8)         entered into the file of documents involved in the invitation to quote.
              •   If the purchasing agent does not receive a quote from a responsible and
              responsive offeror, the purchasing agent may purchase the supplies under I.C. 5-22-
              10-10.
              •   I.C. 5-22-10-10 states that a purchasing agent may make a special purchase when
              the purchasing agency has solicited for a purchase under another purchasing method
              (the one described herein above) and has not received a responsive offer. In such an
              instance, the purchasing agent will not need to further solicit bids or proposals in
              order to comply with the Act.
              All purchases for which the amount of the ultimate expenditure is reasonably
              estimated to be less than $50,000 may be made by:                                     More than
              Purchases more than $25,000 and less than $50,000.                                    $25,000 and
Less than     •   The purchasing agent shall seek out two or three quotes in the open market buless than
$50,000       failure to do so due to unavailability of potential vendors or otherwise, shall not   $50,000.
              prevent the purchase from being made.                                                 Board of
              •   A manually signed quote must be secured and filed with the requisition.      Commissioners
              •   Failure to obtain more than one quote shall not prevent the purchase from bei 
              made nor invalidate a purchase made with only a single quote.
              Purchases of $25,000 or less:
              •   The purchasing agent shall seek out two or three quotes in the open market but
              failure to do so due to unavailability of potential vendors or otherwise, shall not
              prevent the purchase from being made.
              •   A manually signed quote must be secured and filed with the requisition
              •   The purchasing agent shall be encouraged to solicit competitive prices in thePurchases
              open market, but the manner of such solicitation will be left to the purchasing       $25,000 or
              agent's discretion.                                                                   less - the
              •   Failure to obtain more than one quote shall not prevent the purchase from beiDepartment
             made nor invalidate a purchase made with only a single quote.                         Head or the
              Each Elected Official and/or Department Head, or either of their designees, shall     Elected
              keep a copy of all written quotes received or shall make contemporaneous memoranda of Official
              all verbal quotes received. If an Elected Official and/or Department Head decides to   
              keep such memoranda in their own records, then they shall provide in a timely manner
              copies upon request to the Indiana State Board of Accounts or to the Wayne County
              Auditor.
              The methods of collection and maintaining of records and receipts for purchases
              $25,000 or less shall be left to the discretion of each Elected Official and/or
              Department Head.
                                                                                                    The public
                                                                                                    purchasing law
                                                                                                    recognizes
                                                                                                    that in
                                                                                                    certain
                                                                                                    circumstances
                                                                                                    the purchase
                                                                                                    of certain
                                                                                                    items can be
                                                                                                    made without
                                                                                                    competitive
                                                                                                    quotes, sealed
Special                                                                                             bids or RFPs.
Purchases     Special Purchases are described in I.C. 5-22-10, et seq. of less than $50,000.        However, a
                                                                                                    special
                                                                                                    purchase must
                                                                                                    be with
                                                                                                    competition as
                                                                                                    is practical
                                                                                                    under the
                                                                                                    circumstances.
                                                                                                    Refer to
                                                                                                    attachment "A"
                                                                                                    as to what
                                                                                                    qualifies as a
                                                                                                    "special
                                                                                                    purchase".
                                                                                                    The purchasing
                                                                                                    agent, as
                                                                                                    applicable,
                                                                                                    shall keep a
                                                                                                    separate file
                                                                                                    of all
                                                                                                    contract
                                                                                                    documents
                                                                                                    related to a
                                                                                                    Special
                                                                                                    Purchase (See
                                                                                                    I.C. 5-22-10-
                                                                                                   3.) The
                                                                                                    purchasing
                                                                                                    agent shall
                                                                                                    assemble such
                                                                                                    contract
                                                                                                    documents and
                                                                                                    forward them
                                                                                                    to the
                                                                                                    Commissioners
                                                                                                    within 30 days
                                                                                                    after each
                                                                                                    Special
                                                                                                    Purchase is
                                                                                                    completed.
              Requests for Proposals (I.C. 5-22-9 et seq.)
              Request for Proposals or "RFP" shall mean all documents, whether attached or
              incorporated by reference, used for soliciting proposals. I.C. 5-22-2-28.
              This procedure may be used when the Commissioners determine, by their finding,
              reflected in the minutes of a public meeting of said body, by rule or by policy (any
              of which must occur prior to issuance of the RFP), that it is not practical or
              advantageous to purchase a certain type of supply or supplies by competitive bidding,
              and receiving proposals is the preferred method of purchasing for that supply or
Purchasing    those supplies.
Supplies -    •   A request for proposals must include the following (See I.C. 5-22-9-2):      Board of
Alternative      o   The criteria that will be used to evaluate the proposals (only the listedCommissioners
Procedures    criteria may be used to evaluate the proposals).
                 o   A statement concerning the relative importance of price as related to the
              other evaluative criteria.
                 o   A statement concerning whether the proposals must be accompanied by a
              certified check or other evidence of fiscal responsibility, which may be imposed in
              accordance with other county rules or practices.
                 o   A statement concerning whether discussions/negotiations may be conducted with
              responsible offerors who submit proposals reasonably susceptible of being selected
              for award.
              •   Public notice of a request for proposals must be given in accordance with I.C. 5-
              3-1. Electronic access to the notice may be provided.
              •   Proposals must be opened in a way that avoids disclosure of their contents to
              competing offerors during the process of discussions/negotiations. See I.C. 5-22-9-4.
              •   A register of proposals must be prepared by the respective purchasing agent,
              forwarded to the Board of Commissioners after the completion of the purchase, and
              must then be open for public inspection after a contract award. See I.C. 5-22-9-5(a).
              •   The register of proposals must contain the following See I.C. 5-22-9-5(b):
                 o   A copy of the requests for proposals.
                 o   A list of everyone who received copies of the request for proposals.
                 o   A list of all proposals received (including names, addresses, dollar amounts
              of each offer, and the name of the successful offeror and dollar amount of the
              successful offer).
                o   The basis on which the award was made.                                    
                 o   The entire contents of the contract file (subject to redaction of proprietary
              information).
              •   Language in the request for proposals must include the county's right to engage
              in discussions and negotiations with any proposer reasonably deemed a potentially
              successful proposer. See I.C. 5-22-9-6.
              •   An award shall be made to the responsible offeror whose proposal is determined in
              writing to be the most advantageous to the county, taking into consideration price
              and other evaluation factors. Awards may be made to more than one offeror if so
              stated in the request for proposals. See I.C. 5-22-9-8.
              •   All persons acting on behalf of the county in performance of functions under this
              or any other provision of this Purchasing Policy shall be charged with, and abide by,
              the overarching obligation to deal with all other participants in good faith. See
              I.C. 5-22-3-1.
              Vehicles and motorized or other such heavy equipment (e.g., County Highway Department
              trucks, graders, rollers, pavers, etc.) to be purchased shall first be presented to
              the Board of County Commissioners by the appropriate County Department Head or
              elected official. The Board of Commissioners will then forward the proposed purchase
              (s) to the County's Fleet Management Committee for its review and advisory
              recommendation to the Commissioners. The Commissioners shall also review the existing Board of
              budgets for the department or office proposing the purchase(s) to determine if the    Commissioners,
              relevant budgets have available appropriations or funds that can be appropriated to   with the
              fund the proposed purchase(s). If such funds have not been appropriated or made       advice of the
              available for appropriation, the Fleet Management Committee, as part of its review    relevant
Vehicles &    process, shall involve representatives of the County Council to obtain at least an    elected
Equipment     indication of Council's willingness to make such required appropriations necessary to official and,
              support the estimated costs of the purchase(s). Upon receipt of the Fleet Management  if applicable,
              Committee's recommendation, and after considering the apparent position of County     the County's
              Council relative to its willingness to approve enabling appropriations to support the Fleet
              purchase(s), the Board of Commissioners will either approve, deny, or modify the      Management
              proposal for the subject purchase(s). The Commissioners shall not enter into any      Committee
              contract for the purchase(s) unless there is an available appropriation or County
              Council has committed to make such an appropriation. In the latter case, any such
              contract entered into on behalf of the county shall contain an express provision that
              the obligations of the county thereunder are subject to the availability of a duly
              approved appropriation by the Council (i.e., a non-appropriation clause).
              Pursuant to I.C. 5-22-3-4, whenever this section requires that notice or other        This applies
              material be issued by mail, the material may also be sent by electronic means or by   exclusively to
              both. The county can receive notice or other material via facsimile machine, by       purchasing of
Electronic    electronic mail, or by means of another electronic system as long as the system has a supplies,
Transmissions security feature that protects the content of an electronic offer with the same       equipment,
of Material   degree of protection as the content of materials that are not transmitted by          services, and
              electronic means. Use of such electronic means shall comply with applicable           professional
              procedures and/or requirements set forth in the Act. (See Auditor's Office or County  services.
              Attorney for further guidance on procedures.)
 
(Ord. 2022-013, passed 12-28-2022)
§ 34.63 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following supplies are exempt from this purchasing policy:
   (A)   Medical vaccines purchased by the Health Department subject to
purchase oversight by the Health Board.
   (B)   Jail inmate food products and supplies.
   (C)   Jail inmate medical vaccines and supplies.
(Ord. 2022-013, passed 12-28-2022)
§ 34.64 SERVICES.
   (A)   Agreements or contracts are required for services. Agreements/
contracts for services are not governed by the Indiana Public Purchasing
Statutes nor the Public Works Statutes. The county reserves the right to enter
into an agreement with a vendor providing services when it is determined
reasonably necessary for the county to do so. The awarding of agreements or
contracts for services is not subject to the bidding procedures of the Indiana
Public Purchasing Statutes nor the Public Works Statutes. I.C. 5-22-2-30
defines services as: “‘Services’ means the furnishing of labor, time, or effort
by a person, not involving the delivery of specific supplies other than printed
documents or other items that are merely incidental to the required
performance.”
   (B)   If the agreements or contracts for services are atypical, have not
been previously approved (addendums and amendments to previously approved
contracts would be considered to be previously approved for this purpose), or
are not in the typical county contract form (if one exists for this service)
they must be reviewed and approved by the County Attorney prior to or
contemporaneously with the Elected Official and/or Department Head providing
their recommendation to the Board of Commissioners. Based upon the
recommendation provided by the Elected Official and/or Department Head, the
Board of Commissioners shall approve or deny the proposed agreement/contract
for the purchase of services.
   (C)   Subject to the provisions set forth herein below addressing emergency
purchases, if the need for a service is urgent and cannot be postponed until
the next Board of Commissioners meeting, then the Elected Official/Department
Head shall be permitted to purchase the service as long as there are available
in their budgets, sufficient funds with previously unspent or committed
unappropriated fund balances. The Elected Official/Department Head shall report
the purchase of the service to the Board of Commissioners at its next public
meeting following the emergency purchase.
   (D)   Any questions, comments, or concerns pertaining to the application,
interpretation, or other similar matter for agreements/contracts for services
should be directed to the County Attorney.
(Ord. 2022-013, passed 12-28-2022)
§ 34.65 PROFESSIONAL SERVICES.
   The county hereby determines that notice as required by I.C. 5-16-11.1-4(a)
(4) is not required for the county's procurement of professional services.
Contracting for such professional services shall follow the same procedures as
those applicable for the contracting of other general services.
   (A)   Each contract for professional services shall be awarded on the basis
of competence and qualifications of the service provider for the types of
services to be performed and with contracted compensation in such amounts as
the county determines to be reasonable, and subject always to there being an
available appropriation of county funds to support such contract.
   (B)   The county shall solicit RFPs for professional services if there is a
federal funding source funding the project that requires such professional
services and also requires use of the RFP or RFQ process. The county shall use
the same procedures outlined herein for RFPs/RFQs for professional services
that include federal funding.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners and the county reserve the right to enter
into a contract for professional services when it is determined that it is
reasonable to do so and when the Commissioners determine that it is in the
county's best interest to do so.
(Ord. 2022-013, passed 12-28-2022)
§ 34.66 PROCEDURES FOR OPENING RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR QUOTES.
   (A)   The general process for opening and awarding contracts based upon a
request for quotes ("RFQs") is the following:
      (1)   Any requests for quotes must state the date, time, and location
when sealed quotes will be received and opened.
      (2)   Any department that receives quotes must open the quotes on the
date and time and at the location stated in the RFQ in the presence of the
Commissioners or a person(s) designated by the Commissioners.
      (3)   After quotes are opened, the appropriate Department Head or
employee shall prepare a report of opening of quotes which shall include the
following:
         (a)   The date and manner of issuance of the RFQ;
         (b)   The time, date, and the place when the quotes were opened;
         (c)   The name of each respondent that provided a quote;
         (d)   The price included in the quote; and
         (e)   The recommendation of award to be made to the Board of
Commissioners.
      (4)   The report of opening of quotes shall be filed with the Board of
Commissioners at or prior to the time of their consideration of the contract
award.
   (B)   The above procedures for processing quotes apply to all county
departments.
(Ord. 2022-013, passed 12-28-2022)
§ 34.67 REQUEST FOR QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Prior to a vendor submitting an RFP or a bid, the purchasing agent may
send either a general or a vendor-specific "request for qualifications." The
vendor's qualifications the purchasing agent may inquire about include:
      (1)   Appropriate experience with similar projects.
      (2)   Their team experience with design-build projects, if applicable.
      (3)   Their organizational resources and depth.
      (4)   The vendor's licensing requirements and whether their licenses are
in good standing with their appropriate licensing agency(s).
      (5)   The vendor's financial strength and bonding capacity.
      (6)   The vendor's history of contracting with or hiring minority
businesses and women's business enterprises.
      (7)   The vendor's experience dealing with bonding authorities.
   (B)   If any Elected Official and/or Department Head has questions
concerning RFQs, when to use them, and/or how to use them, contact the Wayne
County Attorney for further instructions and guidance.
(Ord. 2022-013, passed 12-28-2022)
§ 34.68 ADOPTION OF LOCAL INDIANA BUSINESS PREFERENCE POLICY.
   All Purchasing Agents are advised that pursuant to the provisions of
Ordinance No. 2013-013 adopted by the County's Board of Commissioners on
October 17, 2012, and in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 5-22-15-20.9,
any purchase of supplies by a County Purchasing Agent is subject to the
automatically provided local business preference set forth in the above
ordinance and the cited statute unless the particular purchase is excluded from
the applicability of the Local Indiana Business Preference by action of the
Board of Commissioners when it authorizes the request for bid/quotes/proposals.
In order for the Local Business Preference to be granted, it must be expressly
claimed by a qualifying Local Indiana Business in that business's bid, quote,
or proposal.
(Ord. 2022-013, passed 12-28-2022)
§ 34.69 USE OF CREDIT CARDS FOR COUNTY PURCHASES.
   Purchasing Agents making a purchase hereunder and using a county-issued
credit card to pay for such purchase shall comply with the provisions of the
County's Credit Card Usage Policy that is set forth in County Commissioners
Resolution # 2021-007, and with all procedures applicable to said policy.
(Ord. 2022-013, passed 12-28-2022)
§ 34.70 EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   The procedures set forth in this provision apply to emergency conditions
other than, and in addition to, those described in I.C. 5-22-10-4(a).
   (A)   (1)   Emergency. For purposes of this provision, an emergency exists
when a Purchasing Agent, in the exercise of good faith and reasonable
subjective judgment, determines that a purchase is necessary in order to:
         (a)   Avoid damage to, or substantial risk of destruction of, county
property; and/or
         (b)   Avoid the shutting down or cessation of work on a county project
or process; and/or
         (c)   Avoid a substantial interruption in the provision of essential
governmental services to the county's citizens; and/or
         (d)   Obtain an economic or scheduling advantage for a planned county
project by taking advantage of unique and unforeseen circumstances that can
reasonably be expected by the Purchasing Agent to allow the project to be
completed at a lesser cost or in a more expedient or timely manner than would
have been the case but for the intervention of the unforeseen circumstances.
      (2)   The above listed examples of an "emergency" are intended as
illustrative and not an exhaustive list.
   (B)   Emergency purchase. A purchase of supplies made pursuant to this
provision and deemed necessary by the Purchasing Agent to alleviate or mitigate
the effects of the particular emergency.
   (C)   Application of provision. This emergency purchasing provision may be
used when a Purchasing Agent determines (i) the existence of an emergency; (ii)
the required purchase is not reasonably expected to exceed $50,000 in total
costs; (iii) prior approval of the Board of Commissioners would have otherwise
been required to make the purchase according to the provisions of this
Purchasing Policy; (iv) and the Purchasing Agent reasonably determines that the
emergency conditions or circumstances would be unreasonably aggravated or
worsened if the Purchasing Agent were to wait until the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Board of Commissioners to obtain its approval of the
purchase.
   (D)   Contact with a Commissioner. In such circumstances as described above,
the Purchasing Agent shall attempt to contact the president of the Board of
Commissioners. If the president is not available or cannot be readily
contacted, then the Purchasing Agent shall contact either of the other two
Commissioners; explain the nature of the emergency; and identify the supplies
that need to be purchased. If the contacted Commissioner approves the emergency
purchase, then the Purchasing Agent may proceed with the purchase; PROVIDED
ALWAYS that the Purchasing Agent has an unexpended and unencumbered
appropriation balance within the Purchasing Agent's office/departmental budget.
If the contacted Commissioner does not approve the Emergency Purchase, the
Purchasing Agent shall not attempt further contact with either of the two
Commissioners who were not contacted.
   (E)   Method of making purchase. The Purchasing Agent may contact a vendor,
supplier, or other such source that customarily offers for sale the types of
supplies required to be purchased. Written quotes need not be obtained, nor
must the Purchasing Agent contact more than one such vendor or supplier. If
time and circumstances allow, the Purchasing Agent shall seek to obtain price
and delivery quotes from two such vendors, but the failure to do so shall not
impair the validity of the purchase and if more than one quote is obtained, the
Purchasing Agent shall not be required to accept the lower price, but the
Purchasing Agent may accept a higher priced quote based upon factors such as
delivery of the supplies and/or quality considerations. The Purchasing Agent
shall document the details of the contact(s) that are made to procure the
emergency purchase, but the Purchasing Agent shall not have to retain those
notes after the emergency purchase is presented to the Board of Commissioners
and duly entered in the minutes of the Commissioners' public meeting.
   (F)   Appearance at next meeting of Board of Commissioners. The Purchasing
Agent shall appear at the next regular public meeting of the Board of
Commissioners to explain the circumstances giving rise to the emergency
purchase. The details of the emergency purchase shall be reflected in the
minutes of that Commissioners' meeting. The Board of Commissioners may, but
shall not be required to, ratify the emergency purchase and the actions of the
Purchasing Agent.
(Ord. 2022-013, passed 12-28-2022)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND REVENUE; FUNDS
Section
County Funds
   
35.01   County Corrections Fund
   
35.02   Prosecuting Attorney’s Infraction Deferral Program Fund and Pretrial
Diversion Program Fund
   
35.03   Prosecutor’s Law Enforcement Fund
   
35.04   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
COUNTY FUNDS
§ 35.01 COUNTY CORRECTIONS FUND.
   (A)   Establishment. The Commissioners hereby elect to continue the County
Corrections Fund and to continue to receive deposits from the Department of
Corrections in accordance with I.C. 11-12-6.
(1982 Code, § 44.01)
   (B)   Deposits. The Commissioners hereby elect to continue to receive such
deposits at Level 3 funding.
(1982 Code, § 44.02)
   (C)   Administration. The County Corrections Fund shall continue to be
administered by the County Council. The Fund shall consist of deposits received
from the Department of Correction in accordance with I.C. 11-12-6.
(1982 Code, § 44.03)
   (D)   Use of funds. The County Corrections Fund may be used only for funding
the operation of the county jail, jail programs or other local correctional
facilities. Any money remaining in the County Corrections Fund at the end of
the year does not revert to any other fund, but remains in the County
Corrections Fund.
(1982 Code, § 44.04)
(Ord. passed 4-2-1990)
§ 35.02 PROSECUTING ATTORNEY’S INFRACTION DEFERRAL PROGRAM FUND AND PRETRAIL
DIVERSION PROGRAM FUND.
   (A)   Implementation. I.C. 34-28-5-1 and I.C. 33-14-1-7 permit the
Prosecuting Attorney to implement an infraction deferral program and pretrial
diversion program with funds generated from said program to be deposited into
an Infraction Deferral Program Fund and Pretrial Diversion Program via the
County User Fee Fund.
(1982 Code, § 30.01)
   (B)   Establishment. The Prosecuting Attorney has established said program
pursuant to the provisions and conditions of I.C. 34-28-5-1 and I.C. 33-14-1-7.
(1982 Code, § 30.02)
   (C)   Creation of fund. The programs necessitate the creation of an
Infraction Deferral Program Fund and Pretrial Diversion Program Fund pursuant
to I.C. 33-19-8-5 and I.C. 33-19-5-2, which funds currently do not exist.
(1982 Code, § 30.03)
   (D)   Disbursements and maintenance of fund. Ordained by County
Commissioners that an Infraction Deferral Program Fund and Pretrial Diversion
Program Fund be hereby created to be maintained by the County Auditor pursuant
to state law, with disbursements to be made according to I.C. 33-19-8-5, I.C.
33-19-8-6 and I.C. 33-19-5-2.
(1982 Code, § 30.04)
(Ord. passed 9-25-2000)
§ 35.03 PROSECUTOR’S LAW ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Prosecutor Law Enforcement Fund. The Board of Commissioners of the
county does hereby authorize the Auditor of the county to create and maintain a
fund to be known as the “Wayne County Prosecutor Law Enforcement Fund” (“PLEF”,
hereinafter).
(1982 Code, § 26.01)
   (B)   Purpose of fund. The purpose of the PLEF shall be to provide moneys
for the use of all law enforcement agencies in the county to aid and assist in
the furtherance of criminal investigations.
(1982 Code, § 26.02)
   (C)   Authorization to accept funds. The Auditor of the county is hereby
authorized to accept funds, whether by way of voluntary contributions. Court
order, restitution or the assessments of fines and costs, specifically
designated for use as PLEF moneys; the Auditor shall accept said monies and
said moneys shall be made available for use by the Prosecuting Attorney subject
to the Prosecuting Attorney making a claim for said moneys to the Board of
Commissioners of the county by setting forth on the claim the purpose of said
claim on the PLEF moneys.
(1982 Code, § 26.03)
   (D)   Authorization to invest funds. The County Treasurer is hereby
authorized to invest those funds held in the PLEF in an interest-bearing
account; the Treasurer shall account to the Auditor of the county for all
interest earned on said account, the interest earned on said account and the
principal need not be turned over to the County General Fund, but may be kept
and retained in the PLEF Fund and checking account and used for the purposes of
prosecution and investigation of criminal activities in the county.
(1982 Code, § 26.04)
(Ord. passed 1-27-1993)
§ 35.04 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established a Cumulative Capital
Development fund for the county.
(1982 Code, § 24.01)
   (B)   Use of funds. The funds accumulated in the Cumulative Capital
Development Fund shall be used for the following purposes as authorized
pursuant to the following authorities:
      (1)   Cumulative Building or Sinking Fund and Cumulative Capital
Development Fund (I.C. 36-9-16-2 and I.C. 36-9-16-3);
      (2)   Cumulative Building Fund for County Court House (I.C. 36-9-14);
      (3)   Cumulative Bridge Fund (I.C. 8-16-3);
      (4)   Cumulative Building Fund, Sinking Fund and Debt Service Fund for
Certain Law Enforcement Purposes (I.C. 36-9-15-5); and
      (5)   Voting System Purchase Fund (I.C. 3-11-6-9).
(1982 Code, § 24.02)
   (C)   Tax levy. Pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Commissioners
adopted at public meeting following a public hearing on 10-28-1992, the Board
of Commissioners approved a plan calling for the imposition of a property tax
levy for a period of three years at the rate of $0.10 per $100 of assessed
valuation with the funds raised by such taxes to be used for the purposes set
forth in division (B) above.
(1982 Code, § 24.03)
   (D)   Levy to provide revenue. An ad valorem property tax levy must be
approved by County Council to provide revenues to fund the Cumulative Capital
Development Fund in accordance with I.C. 36-9-14.5.
(1982 Code, § 24.04)
   (E)   Emergency use of funds. Notwithstanding divisions (B) and (C) above,
money held in the cumulative capital development fund may be spent for purposes
other than the purposes set forth in divisions (B) and (C) above, if the
purpose is to protect the public health, welfare or safety in an emergency
situation which demands immediate action. Money may be spent under the section
only after the Board of Commissioners issues a declaration that the public
health, welfare or safety is in immediate danger requiring the expenditure of
money in the fund.
(1982 Code, § 24.05)
   (F)   Effective date. The establishment of this fund is subject to and shall
take effect subject to the approval of the State Board of Tax Commissioners.
(1982 Code, § 24.06)
   (G)   Name of fund. The fund shall be known as the “Wayne County Cumulative
Capital Development Fund”.
(1982 Code, § 24.07)
(Ord. passed 10-28-1992)
CHAPTER 36: FEES AND CHARGES
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Auditor’s endorsement of real property transfer fee
   
36.02   Dishonored checks
   
36.03   Recorder’s duplication fee
   
36.04   Check service fees by Prosecuting Attorney
   
36.05   Bid form fees
   
36.06   Assessment record fee schedule
   
36.07   Treasurer’s fees
Health Department’s Vital Record
and Service Fees
   
36.20   Purpose
   
36.21   Definitions
   
36.22   Fees for services and for vital records
   
36.23   Collection of fees
   
36.24   Accounting and disposition of fees
   
36.25   Fee schedule
   
36.26   Late fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 AUDITOR’S ENDORSEMENT OF REAL PROPERTY TRANSFER FEE.
   (A)   The Auditor of the county shall collect a fee of $10 in accordance
with HEA 1427 (I.C. 36-2-9-18), which increases from $5 to $10 for each legal
description of each parcel contained in the deed for which the Auditor makes a
real property endorsement in accord with I.C. 36-2-11-14 to allowa deed of
partition or conveyance to be placed of record.
(1982 Code, § 29.01)
   (B)   The Auditor shall place the revenue received for this endorsement in a
dedicated fund for use in maintaining plat books.
(1982 Code, § 29.02)
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 6-12-2019)
§ 36.02 DISHONORED CHECKS.
   (A)   Collection of fee. The Clerk of the Circuit Court may collect a fee of
$27.50 from any person who delivers a check or draft to the Clerk which is
subsequently dishonored by reason of a stop payment order or insufficient
funds.
(1982 Code, § 28.01)
   (B)   Establishment of Bad Check Fund. The Clerk shall establish a Bad Check
Fund and deposit all fees so collected in such fund.
(1982 Code, § 28.02)
   (C)   Recordkeeping. The Clerk shall maintain such books, records and
accounts as may, from time to time, be prescribed in writing by the State Board
of Accounts. In the absence of such direction by the State Board of Accounts,
the Clerk shall establish such records or accounts as necessary, in the
discretion of the Clerk, to properly account for said funds; all of which shall
be available at all times for examination by the State Board of Accounts or the
Auditor of the county.
(1982 Code, § 28.03)
   (D)   Fund classification. All funds, so collected, are hereby declared to
be general fund miscellaneous; provided, however, that, the Clerk may maintain
a balance not to exceed $1,000 for use in redemption of dishonored checks or
drafts.
(1982 Code, § 28.04)
   (E)   Yearly settlement with Auditor. The Clerk on December 1 of each
calendar year shall transfer all sums in the Bad Check Fund in excess of $1,000
to the County General Fund, and is authorized to retain in such fund a sum not
to exceed $1,000.
(1982 Code, § 28.05)
(Ord. passed 2-19-1997; Ord. 2006-003, passed 8-2-2006)
§ 36.03 RECORDER’S DUPLICATION FEE.
   (A)   Recorder duplicating fee. The County Recorder is hereby authorized to
tax and collect a fee for duplicating a computer tape, a computer disk, an
optical disk, microfilm or similar media.
(1982 Code, § 27.01)
   (B)   Amount of fee. The fee shall be $1 per page of duplication of such
media.
(1982 Code, § 27.02)
   (C)   Coverage. This fee may not cover making a handwritten copy or a
photocopy or using xerography or a duplicating machine.
(1982 Code, § 27.03)
   (D)   Authority to collect fee. The Recorder is authorized to tax and
collect such fee as of 9-15-1995.
(1982 Code, § 27.04)
(Ord. passed 9-13-1995)
§ 36.04 CHECK SERVICE FEES BY PROSECUTING ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Check service fee. The Prosecuting Attorney of the county is hereby
authorized to collect a check service fee on behalf of any individual, person,
firm, corporation or any other legal entity who is or may be the holder or
payee of any check or draft that has been turned over to the office of the
Prosecuting Attorney for prosecution or collection.
(1982 Code, § 25.01)
   (B)   Authorization to collect fee. The Prosecuting Attorney of the county
is hereby authorized to collect said check service fee from the maker, drawer
or anyother responsible individual on any check or draft that has been returned
to the payee named thereon or holder thereof by a financial institution for
non- payment.
(1982 Code, § 25.02)
   (C)   Fee retention. The Prosecuting Attorney of the county is hereby
authorized to retain all check service fees, so collected and to deposit the
same into a public funds checking account, established and maintained by the
Prosecuting Attorney or his or her delegate.
(1982 Code, § 25.03)
   (D)   Fund classification. All funds, so collected, are hereby declared to
be General Fund miscellaneous revenues.
(1982 Code, § 25.04)
   (E)   Recordkeeping. The office of the Prosecuting Attorney shall maintain
such books, records and accounts as may, from time to time, be prescribed, in
writing, by the State Board of Accounts; in the absence or failure of the State
Board of Accounts to prescribe such books, records or accounts, in writing, the
Prosecuting Attorney may establish such records or accounts as he or she, in
his or her discretion, deems necessary and appropriate to properly account for
said funds; all of such books, records and accounts shall be open at all times
for examination by the State Board of Accounts or the Auditor of the county.
(1982 Code, § 25.05)
   (F)   Authority to expend service fees. The office of the Prosecuting
Attorney is hereby authorized to expend from the check service fees collected,
sums not to exceed $1,500 annually, for the reasonable and necessary
expenditures of the office of the Prosecuting Attorney, which may be incident
to the handling of such checks or for expenditures in addition to or in excess
of any funds appropriated for the office of the Prosecuting Attorney, during
the calendar year.
(1982 Code, § 25.06)
   (G)   Quarterly settlement with Auditor.
      (1)   Quarterly, the office of the Prosecuting Attorney shall turn over
to the Auditor of the county all check service fees collected during the
quarter, less any expenditures made by the office of the Prosecuting Attorney
from such fees.
      (2)   At the time such fees are turned over, the Prosecuting Attorney
shall provide a statement to the Auditor of the county, which shall set forth
the total amount of fees collected during the period, the total amount of
expenditures made from such fees during the period and the net amount of fees
being turned over to the Auditor; in addition, the Prosecuting Attorney shall
provide the Auditor with an itemized statement setting forth the payee, nature
and amount of each expenditure made by the Prosecuting Attorney from check
service fees; in addition, said statement shall set forth the total amount of
check service fees expended by the office of the Prosecuting Attorney year-to-
date.
(1982 Code, § 25.07)
   (H)   Additional appropriation. The Prosecuting Attorney may, at the time of
turning over such funds to the County Auditor, file with the Auditor a request
for an additional appropriation to the budget of the Prosecuting Attorney of
the county in an amount not to exceed that of the funds turned over to the
Auditor.
(1982 Code, § 25.08)
   (I)   Amount of fee. The collection of any check service fee, or the amount
of the fee to be charged, shall be discretionary with the office of the
Prosecuting Attorney.
(1982 Code, § 25.09)
(Ord. passed 5-14-1990)
§ 36.05 BID FORM FEES.
   (A)   Auditor form fees. The County Auditor shall charge and collect the
following fees from persons requesting forms which are kept in the office of
the County Auditor:
      (1)   Contractor bid for public works (Form No. 96): $0.50; and
      (2)   Bid, offer or proposal for sale or lease of materials (Form No.
95): $0.50.
(1982 Code, § 21.01)
   (B)   Form fee charge exceptions. A charge shall not be made for one each of
the above forms if the form is to be used for bidding on a project for the
county or for the sale or lease of materials for the county. Bidders requesting
more than one copy of such form shall pay the fees set forth above.
(1982 Code, § 21.02)
   (C)   Collection and accounting of fees. All fees collected pursuant to this
section shall be accounted for and deposited into the General Fund of the
county in accordance with procedures required by the State Board of Accounts.
(1982 Code, § 21.03)
(Ord. passed 12-18-1989)
§ 36.06 ASSESSMENT RECORD FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Assessor copy fees. The County Assessor and the Township Assessor
shall charge and collect the following fees from persons requesting copies of
property record cards which are maintained in the offices of the County
Assessor or Wayne Township Assessor: property record card, $1 for all types.
(1982 Code, § 20.01)
   (B)   Collection and accounting of fees. All fees collected pursuant to this
section shall be accounted for and deposited into the General Fund of the
county in accordance with procedures required by the State Board of Accounts.
All fees collected pursuant to this section shall be paid into the county
treasury at the end of the calendar month.
(1982 Code, § 20.02)
(Ord. passed 10-23-1989; Ord. passed 3-5-1990; Ord. passed 2-3-1993)
§ 36.07 TREASURER’S FEES.
   (A)   The Treasurer of the county is hereby authorized to assess and collect
a fee in the sum of $1 for each such parcel search and/or duplicate tax
statement that is necessary to be generated as a result of a taxpayer’s failure
to present the tax statement sent to the taxpayer with the taxpayer’s tendered
payment of taxes.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall account for and deposit all such moneys received
from the above fee into the County General Fund into such account as exists or
is to be established in consultation with the Auditor of the county.
(Ord. 2015-007, passed 4-15-2015)
HEALTH DEPARTMENT’S VITAL
RECORD AND SERVICE FEES
§ 36.20 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is enacted for the purposes of:
   (A)   Approving the fees to be charged by Wayne County Board of Health as
contemplated in I.C. 16-20-1-27;
   (B)   To adjust the fees presently charged by the Wayne County Board of
Health to better reflect the costs of delivery of its services; and
   (C)   To codify within one ordinance all fees charged by the Wayne County
Board of Health related to food services, septic services, swimming pool
services and for providing copies of vital records.
(Ord. 2014-003, passed 8-20-2014; Ord. 2020-004, passed 5-13-2020; Ord. 2022-
006, passed 10-1-2022)
§ 36.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. Shall have the definition and meaning
ascribed to it pursuant to Indiana State Department of Health Rule 410 I.A.C.
5-15.5.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The Local Board of Health of Wayne County, Indiana, as
provided for in I.C. 16-20-2-1 et seq.
   CERTIFIED FOOD HANDLER. The definition and meaning ascribed to it pursuant
to State Department of Health Rule 410 I.A.C. 7-22.
   COMMERCIAL ON-SITE SEWAGE SYSTEM. Shall have the definition and meaning
ascribed to it pursuant to Indiana State Department of Health Rule 410 I.A.C.
6-10.1.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Local Health Department of Wayne County, Indiana, as
established by ordinance duly passed by the Board of Commissioners of the
county.
   MICRO MARKET. An unstaffed, self-checkout retail food establishment.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, company, LLC, LLP, firm,
association, trustee, municipality, county, authority, estate, public or
private entity or other legal entity or their representatives or agents,
successors and assigns.
   PUBLIC POOL, SEMI-PUBLIC POOL, SPA, WADING POOL and DIVING POOL. The
definition and meaning ascribed to it pursuant to State Department of Health
Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-2.1.
   RESIDENTIAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. The definition and meaning ascribed to
it pursuant to State Department of Health Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3.
   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. The definition and meaning ascribed to it
pursuant to State Department of Health Rule 410 I.A.C. 7-24.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any self-service device offered for use which, upon
insertion of paper money, coins, tokens, or by other similar means, dispenses
unit servings of potentially hazardous food, either in bulk or package.
(Ord. 2014-003, passed 8-20-2014; Ord. 2020-004, passed 5-13-2020; Ord. 2022-
006, passed 10-1-2022)
§ 36.22 FEES FOR SERVICES AND FOR VITAL RECORDS.
   The Board of Health shall establish and collect a fee for providing to or
for, a person any of those specific services or copies of vital records as set
out and described in §
36.25.
(Ord. 2014-003, passed 8-20-2014; Ord. 2020-004, passed 5-13-2020; Ord. 2022-
006, passed 10-1-2022)
§ 36.23 COLLECTION OF FEES.
   The Health Department shall collect a fee for all services and copies of
vital records provided to a person in accordance with §
36.25.
(Ord. 2014-003, passed 8-20-2014; Ord. 2020-004, passed 5-13-2020; Ord. 2022-
006, passed 10-1-2022)
§ 36.24 ACCOUNTING AND DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   Fees collected by the Health Department under the established Fee Schedule
shall be accounted for and disposed of as follows:
   (A)   Accounting for fees. All scheduled fees collected by the Health
Department shall be accounted for in detail by program service area.
   (B)   Disposition of fees. All scheduled fees collected by the Health
Department pursuant to this subchapter, shall be transferred into the Wayne
County Health Fund.
(Ord. 2014-003, passed 8-20-2014; Ord. 2020-004, passed 5-13-2020; Ord. 2022-
006, passed 10-1-2022)
§ 36.25 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The following fee schedule as, established by the Board of Health and hereby
approved by the Board of Commissioners of the county, pursuant to I.C. 16-20-1-
27, shall be collected by the Health Department when providing those services
described therein, or when furnishing to a person copies of vital records as
set out therein.
   (A)   Food services.
Food Services * Amount
Food Services *                                  Amount
Bed and breakfast establishment                  $150
Micro market permit                              $50
Mobile retail food establishment permit (12      $150
months)
Reinstatement of any retail food establishment   $200
permit or mobile retail establishment permit
Retail food establishment permit 8,001 sq. ft.   $600
and over
Retail food establishment permits - issued after 1/2 the applicable annual fee
July 1 of any calendar year
Retail food establishment permit from 3,001 sq.  $400
ft. to 8,000 sq. ft.
Food Services * Amount
Food Services *                                    Amount
Retail food establishment permit up to 3,000 sq.   $250
ft.
Retail food establishment plan review for new
construction (application filed prior to           $200
commencement of any new construction)
Retail food establishment plan review for new
construction (application filed after commencement $300
of any new construction)
Retail food establishment plan review for remodel
(application filed prior to commencement of        $150
remodel)
Retail food establishment plan review for remodel  $250
(application filed after commencement of remodel)
Temporary food establishment permit                $15 per day or $210 maximum
Vending machine permit                             $25 per machine
NOTES TO TABLE:
*All retail food establishment fees are to be paid annually based on a
calendar year. No fees will be prorated during any calendar year, except as
noted herein.
 
   (B)   Residential sewage disposal services.
Residential Sewage Disposal Services Amount
Residential Sewage Disposal Services                                  Amount
Contractors indemnity bond                                            $20,000
Registration fee for residential sewage disposal system (contractors) $250
Registration fee for residential sewage disposal system (employee of  $150
contractor)
Residential sewage disposal - written permit (repair)                 $100
Residential sewage disposal - written permit (replacement or          $100
alteration)
Residential sewage disposal - written permit (new construction)       $100
Residential sewage disposal soil analysis submission and application  $25
Residential sewage disposal plan review (new construction)            $275
Residential sewage disposal plan review (replacement or alteration)   $175
 
   (C)   Commercial on-site sewage systems.
 
Commercial On-Site Sewage Systems                                    Amount
Commercial on-site sewage system - written permit (new construction) $400
Commercial on-site sewage system - written permit (replacement)      $300
Commercial on-site sewage system - written permit (repair)           $100
Registration fee for commercial on-site sewage system (contractors)  $250
Registration fee for commercial onsite sewage system (employee of    $150
contractor)
Contractors indemnity fund                                           $20,000
 
   (D)   Public and semi-public pool services.
 
Public and Semi-Public Pool Services                                  Amount
Public and semi-public pool inspections (seasonal - 6 months or less) $200
Public and semi-public pool inspections (12 months)                   $250
Wading pool, spa and diving pool inspections (6 months)               $150
Wading pool, spa and diving pool inspections (12 months)              $175
 
   (E)   Vital records services.
Vital Records Services Amount
Vital Records Services                                     Amount
Birth certificate                                          $15
   Correction to birth certificate                      $35
Death certificate (includes fee for Coroner’s continuing $15
education)**
Paternity affidavit                                        $35
Paternity affidavit upon marriage                          $35
Copy of paternity affidavit                                $5
Notary services                                            $5
NOTES TO TABLE:
** The above Coroner’s continuing education fee shall automatically adjust
to comply with the fee schedule set out in I.C. 16-37-l-9(d).
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no fee shall be collected for furnishing
either a birth or a death certificate to a person, or a member of a family
of a person, or a public official who requires the certificate for the
following purposes:
   (A)   To establish the person's age or the dependency of a member of the
person's family in connection with:
      (1)   The person's service in the armed forces of the United States;
or
      (2)   A death pension or disability pension of a person who is
serving or has served in the armed forces of the United States;
   (B)   To establish or to verify the age of a minor presently enrolled in
school who desires to secure a work permit.
 
(Ord. 2014-003, passed 8-20-2014; Ord. 2020-004, passed 5-13-2020; Ord. 2022-
006, passed 10-1-2022)
§ 36.26 LATE FEES.
   Retail food establishments have until February 1, of the following year, to
make application for a retail food establishment permit. After February 1, a
delinquency fee of double that of the regular fee will be added to the permit
fee.
(Ord. 2022-006, passed 10-1-2022)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   SOLID WASTE DISTRICT
      
52.   GARBAGE AND RUBBISH DISPOSAL
      
53.   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
Underground or Buried Utilities
   
50.01   Purpose
   
50.02   Designation
   
50.03   Restrictions
   
50.04   Exceptions
UNDERGROUND OR BURIED UTILITIES
§ 50.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to adopt a local policy regarding the
designation of locations within the unincorporated areas of the county as
under-ground or buried utility areas pursuant to I.C. 8-1-32.3-15(c)(1).
(Res. 2017-007, passed 4-28-2017)
§ 50.02 DESIGNATION.
   The county, through its Commissioners, hereby determines that various
developers and homeowners located within the unincorporated areas of the county
have previously made investments to ensure utility lines are located or buried
underground and, therefore, in an effort to continue this policy, all
subdivisions located in the unincorporated areas of the county where utility
lines are currently located or buried underground are hereby designated as
areas strictly for underground or buried utilities pursuant to I.C. 8-1-32.3-15
(c)(1).
(Res. 2017-007, passed 4-28-2017)
§ 50.03 RESTRICTIONS.
   With respect to the construction, placement, or use of a small cell facility
and the associated support structure, the Commissioners hereby restrict and
prohibit the placement of new utility poles or new wireless support structures
in the designated areas of the county rights-of-way, as outlined in §
50.02 of this chapter, except as otherwise permitted in §
50.04 of this chapter.
(Res. 2017-007, passed 4-28-2017)
§ 50.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding the restrictions and prohibitions contained in §
50.03 of this chapter, the following provisions shall be met and the following
exceptions are hereby permitted.
   (A)   Collocation of small cell facilities on existing utility poles and
wireless support structures within the unincorporated areas of the county are
allowed.
   (B)   Repair and/or replacement of existing utility poles and wireless
support structures within the unincorporated areas of the county are allowed.
   (C)   A petition for a request to install new wireless support structures
within the unincorporated areas of the county may be filed with the
Commissioners which shall hold a public hearing on such petition within 30 days
of filing and, upon which, a decision shall be made by the Commissioners within
60 days of such filing.
   (D)   Upon receipt of a petition for the construction, placement or use of a
small cell facility on one or more new utility poles or one or more new
wireless support structures in the unincorporated areas of the county, the
county shall post notice of the petition on the county’s internet website with
a statement that the petition is available to public upon request.
   (E)   The prohibition or other restrictions with respect to the placement of
new utility poles or new wireless support structures within the unincorporated
areas of the county shall be applied in a non-discriminatory manner.
(Res. 2017-007, passed 4-28-2017)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE DISTRICT
Section
   
51.01   Establishment
   
51.02   Boundaries
   
51.03   Interlocal cooperation agreement
§ 51.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The county does hereby join together with the Counties of Union and Randolph
in establishing a joint solid waste management district to be known as the
“W.U.R. Solid Waste District”, organized in compliance with the provisions of
I.C. 13-9.5-2, and to perform all of the functions authorized and directed by
said law, as it is now promulgated or as the same may hereafter be modified by
judicial decision or legislative amendment.
(1982 Code, § 80.01) (Ord. passed 6-3-1991)
§ 51.02 BOUNDARIES.
   All of the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the county shall be
included in the W.U.R. Solid Waste District.
(1982 Code, § 80.02) (Ord. passed 6-3-1991)
§ 51.03 INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT.
   The proposed interlocal cooperation agreement governing the operation of the
joint district was hereby approved and made a part of this chapter as if set
out in full.
(1982 Code, § 80.03) (Ord. passed 6-3-1991)
Cross-reference:
   Agreements, see
TSO Table VI
CHAPTER 52: GARBAGE AND RUBBISH DISPOSAL
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Operator’s permit
   
52.03   Public disposal site permit
   
52.04   Fees, distribution and exceptions
   
52.05   Suspension and revocation of permits
   
52.06   Exceptions and limitations
   
52.07   Inspection of public disposal sites and operations
   
52.08   Sanitary requirements
   
52.09   Enforcement
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Those putrescible wastes resulting from the growing, handling,
storage, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   GROUND WATER. The water in the ground that is in the zone of saturation.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Includes, but is not limited to, explosives,
pathological wastes, radioactive material and chemicals.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Wayne County Health Officer or his or her duly
authorized representative.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, association, syndicate, company, firm,
trust, corporation, government corporation, department, bureau, agency or any
entity recognized by law.
   PUBLIC DISPOSAL. The disposal of refuse which has been removed from premises
used, owned or leased by one or more persons, firms, corporations or
association, and transported to other premises and disposed either with or
without the payment of a fee.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes, with the exception
of body wastes, and shall include garbage, rubbish, ashes, street sweeping,
dead animals and industrial and construction wastes.
   RUBBISH. All non-putrescible wastes including such matter as ashes, cans,
metalware, broken glass, crockery, dirt, sweepings, boxes, wood, grass, weeds
or litter of any kind.
   SALVAGING. The controlled removal of reusable materials.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A method of disposing of refuse on land without creating
nuisances or hazards to public health or safety, by utilizing principles of
engineering to confine the refuse to the smallest practical area, to reduce it
to the smallest practical volume and to cover it with a compacted layer of
suitable material at the conclusion of each day and at more frequent intervals
as necessary.
   SCAVENGING. The uncontrolled picking of materials.
   SURFACE WATER. A body of water whose top surface is exposed to the
atmosphere including a flowing body as well as a pond and a lake.
   WAYNE COUNTY. Those areas in Wayne County, State of Indiana, which are under
the jurisdiction of the County Health Officer and situated outside the
corporate limits of any city or town.
(1982 Code, § 94.01) (Ord. passed 1-12-1970)
§ 52.02 OPERATOR’S PERMIT.
   The general requirements concerning operator’s permits are as follows.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person in the county, who does not
possess an unrevoked permit from the Health Officer, to engage in the removal
and/or the transportation of refuse from premises to a location other than the
place of origin of such refuse for disposal.
      (2)   The provisions of this division (A) shall not apply to any person
disposing of only his or her own refuse if transported to an approved disposal
site in a sanitary manner. SANITARY MANNER shall mean that all refuse
transported in an open vehicle or trailer, regardless of whether it is in bags
or containers, shall be adequately protected with a covering to prevent blowing
or spillage. Large heavy bulky items such as refrigerators, stoves and the like
are not subject to such covering, but shall be secured with rope, wire, straps
and the like to prevent their being dislodged while in transit. The County
Sheriff’s Department is empowered to enforce this division (A).
   (B)   Before a permit is issued by the Health Officer for the collection and
transportation of refuse, all equipment and vehicles to be used shall be
approved by the Health Officer. All equipment and vehicles used to transport
refuse to an approved disposal site shall have suitably constructed, sanitary
type, all enclosed bodies and shall be cleaned as may be necessary to prevent
nuisances and health hazards. Equipment other than the above shall meet the
approval of the Health Officer.
   (C)   Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain the name of the
person to whom the permit is granted and such other pertinent information as
may be required by the Health Officer. A separate permit shall be required for
each vehicle used to transport refuse.
   (D)   Only persons who comply with the requirements of this chapter shall be
entitled to receive and retain such a permit. The permit shall be for the term
of one year on a calendar year basis and shall be renewable annually. No permit
or renewal thereof shall be denied on arbitrary or capricious grounds.
   (E)   Before any operator permit shall be issued, the applicant for such
permit shall first furnish and deposit with the Health Officer a certificate of
insurance showing public liability and property damage insurance policy
insuring the applicant against liability for damages sustained by a person
other than the employee of said applicant and occasioned by the neglectful
operation of the vehicles or vehicles of said applicant, and the insurance
policy shall provide a minimum coverage in the amount of $15,000 for the injury
or death of any one person as a result of any one accident, and shall provide a
minimum coverage in the amount of $30,000 in the aggregate for the injury or
death of two or more persons on any one accident and a minimum coverage of
$30,000 for property damage. Such insurance policy shall be written by a
company authorized to do business in the state.
(1982 Code, § 94.02) (Ord. passed 1-12-1970) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 PUBLIC DISPOSAL SITE PERMIT.
   The general requirements concerning disposal site permits are as follows.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or permit to be used, any
land, premises or property within the county for a refuse disposal site without
first filing an application with the Health Officer and securing a valid permit
from the Health Officer for such operation.
   (B)   Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain the name of the
person to whom the permit is granted, the address of the premises for which it
is issued and such other pertinent information as may be required by the Health
Officer. A separate permit shall be required for each disposal site operated or
to be operated by any person.
   (C)   Only persons who comply with the requirements of this chapter shall be
entitled to receive and retain such a permit. The permit shall be for the term
of one year on a calendar year basis and shall be renewable annually. No permit
or renewal thereof shall be denied on arbitrary or capricious grounds.
   (D)   Before a permit is issued by the Health Officer for any new disposal
site, detailed plans and specifications and necessary reports must be submitted
to the Health Officer by a registered professional engineer. The service of a
registered professional engineer for the preparation of plans and
specifications for a disposal site may be waived, when the Health Officer, in
his or her judgment, believes that technical problems, will not be encountered;
however, the required plans and specifications must then be prepared and
submitted by the permit applicant.
(1982 Code, § 94.03) (Ord. passed 1-12-1970)
§ 52.04 FEES, DISTRIBUTION AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The operator permit fee shall be $10 per year beginning January 1, of
each year provided however, that any permit issued after July 1, for the
balance of the year, shall be one-half of the year sum.
      (1)   Permits shall not be transferable and shall be carried on the
vehicle at all times.
      (2)   Operators who comply with the provisions of this chapter and are
required to pay a similar fee from another governmental agency shall be exempt
from this section.
   (B)   The public disposal site permit fee shall be $10 per site per year
beginning January 1 of each year and expiring December 31 of the same year and
shall be renewed annually.
   (C)   State, county and municipal governments shall be exempt from all fees
under the terms of this chapter.
   (D)   All fees collected under the terms of this chapter shall be receipted
monthly into the County Health Fund for services rendered in enforcing this
chapter.
(1982 Code, § 94.04) (Ord. passed 1-12-1970; Ord. passed 11-17-1986) Penalty,
see §
52.99
§ 52.05 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Any permit may be temporarily suspended by the Health Officer without
notice or hearing upon violation by the holder of any of the terms of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any permit issued under the terms of this chapter may be revoked after
an opportunity for a hearing by the Health Officer upon serious or repeated
violation.
(1982 Code, § 94.05) (Ord. passed 1-12-1970)
§ 52.06 EXCEPTIONS AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Existing refuse disposal sites operated by a unit of government may be
temporarily approved by the Health Officer even though such sites do not comply
with the sanitary requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   All existing refuse disposal sites which do not comply with the
provisions of this chapter, whether located on public or private property,
shall be eliminated by 1-1-1971. This shall be accomplished by removing the
refuse to an approved refuse disposal site, or with the approval of the Health
Officer, it shall be compacted and covered with two feet of earth.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in public disposal or
refuse on any land, premises or property which has not been approved by the
Health Officer as a public disposal site.
   (D)   Any person who employs or permits another person, with or without
compensation, to remove or transport refuse from premises to a location other
than the place of origin of such refuse, shall be liable in case his or her
refuse is discarded along public roads or any area not approved by the County
Health Department as a refuse disposal site, unless the original owner of the
refuse is able to provide the name and address of the person who collected,
transported and disposed of the refuse.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of refuse on premises
at the place of origin in such quantities as to have pubic health significance.
(1982 Code, § 94.06) (Ord. passed 1-12-1970) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 INSPECTION OF PUBLIC DISPOSAL SITES AND OPERATIONS.
   (A)   At least once each three months, the Health Officer shall inspect each
refuse site located within the county.
   (B)   In case the Health Officer discovers a violation of any item of
sanitation pertinent to the provisions of this chapter, he or she shall make a
second inspection after the lapse of such time as he or she deems necessary for
the defect to be remedied, and the second inspection shall be used in
determining compliance with terms of this chapter. Any violation of the same
item of the chapter, on such second inspection, shall call for suspension or
revocation of permit.
   (C)   One copy of the Health Officer’s inspection report, on which
violations of any item of sanitation pertinent to the provisions of this
chapter shall be inscribed, shall be delivered to the permittee by the Health
Officer. Another copy of the aforementioned inspection report shall be filed by
the Health Officer with the records of the County Health Department.
The person operating the public disposal site shall, upon request of the Health
Officer, permit access to all parts of the grounds by said Health Officer and
shall permit him or her to copy any and all records pertaining to the sources
of refuse transported thereto for disposal.
(1982 Code, § 94.07) (Ord. passed 1-12-1970)
§ 52.08 SANITARY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The issuance of any permit to a person for the operation of a proposed
disposal site shall be subject to the approval of the Health Officer who shall
inspect the proposed site prior to the issuance of a permit.
   (B)   Sanitary landfill operations shall be so designed and executed that
conditions of pollution will not be created and injury to ground and surface
water shall be avoided which might interfere with legitimate water uses. Water-
filled areas not directly connected to natural lakes, rivers or streams shall
be drained or may be filled with specific inert material not detrimental to
legitimate water uses and which will not create a nuisance or hazard to health.
Special approval of the drainage method or of the inert material to be used in
such fill is required in writing from the Health Officer.
   (C)   (1)   Salvaging, if permitted, shall be organized so that it will not
interfere with prompt sanitary disposal of refuse or create unsightliness or
health hazards. This provision in no way precludes the right of a landfill
operator to prevent salvaging as a part of his or her operational standards.
Scavenging shall not be permitted.
      (2)   All salvage materials must be removed from the disposal area at
least once each week; except that, any and all materials containing food or
rodents and insects, including tin cans, shall be disposed of daily in a
sanitary manner.
   (D)   No refuse shall be burned at a refuse disposal site after the
effective date of this chapter.
   (E)   Any person engaged in public refuse disposal by sanitary landfill
shall have available at all times earth moving equipment of adequate size and
capacity to satisfactorily operate such sanitary landfill. An all-weather road
shall be provided to the sanitary landfill site and site of operation.
   (F)   Domestic animals shall be excluded from any public refuse disposal
site.
   (G)   Infestation of rodents and insects on the premises of a public refuse
disposal site shall constitute a violation of this chapter and such violation
shall be determined by the County Health Officer.
   (H)   Hazardous materials, including liquids and sewage, shall not be
disposed of in a sanitary landfill unless special provisions are made for such
disposal through the Health Officer, the State Board of Health and/or the
Stream Pollution Control Board.
   (I)   The entire site, including the fill surface, shall be graded and
provided with drainage facilities to minimize runoff onto and into the fill to
prevent erosion, or washing of the fill, to drain off rain water falling on the
fill and to prevent the collection of standing water.
   (J)   Measures shall be provided to control dust and blowing paper. The
entire area shall be kept clean and orderly.
   (K)   Modification of the rules on sanitary landfills as applicable to
existing disposal areas may be made by the Health Officer. These modifications
must be approved in writing.
   (L)   Refuse shall be spread so that it can be compacted in layers not
exceeding a depth of two feet. Large and bulky items, when not excluded from
the site, shall be disposed of in a manner approved by the Health Officer.
   (M)   At the end of each day’s operation, the surface of the thoroughly
compacted refuse shall be covered with several inches of dirt. A final layer of
suitable cover material compacted to a minimum thickness of two feet shall be
placed over the entire surface of each portion not later than one week
following the placement of refuse within that portion.
   (N)   An inspection of the entire site shall be made by the Health Officer
at the completion of the landfill project to determine compliance with approved
plans and specifications before the earth moving equipment is removed from the
site. Any necessary corrective work shall be performed before the landfill
project is accepted as completed. The permit holder shall be responsible for
the repair of all cracked, eroded and uneven areas in the final cover during
the first two years following completion of the landfill.
   (O)   Any other method of solid waste disposal not covered by these rules
shall be reviewed by the Health Department for the purposes of evaluating the
design and operational methods with reference to: the nuisance factor; the
safety of employees; and protection of the public health. Such disposal methods
shall be subject to the evaluation and approval of the Health Officer.
(1982 Code, § 94.08) (Ord. passed 1-12-1970) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The enforcement of this chapter shall be by the County Health Officer.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the County Prosecuting Attorney, to whom the
County Health Officer shall report any violations of the provisions of this
chapter, to cause proceedings to be commenced against the person violating the
provisions of this chapter and to prosecute to final determination.
(1982 Code, § 94.09) (Ord. passed 1-12-1970)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this ordinance shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, on conviction, the violator shall be punished for the first
offense, by a fine of not more than $500; for the second offense, by a fine of
not more than $1,000; and, for the third and each subsequent offense, by a fine
of not more than $1,000 to which may be added imprisonment for any determinate
period not exceeding 90 days, and each day after the expiration of the time
limit for abating insanitary conditions and completing improvements to abate
such conditions as ordered by the County Board of Health, or by the duly
appointed Health Officer of the county, shall constitute a distinct and
separate offense.
(1982 Code, § 94.99) (Ord. passed 1-12-1970)
CHAPTER 53: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   General requirements
   
53.03   Building sewer
   
53.04   Septic tanks
   
53.05   Distribution boxes
   
53.06   Construction of subsurface absorption field
   
53.07   Site evaluation
   
53.08   Percolation tests
   
53.09   Percolation test procedure
   
53.10   Defects
   
53.11   Enforcement procedure
Permits, Registrations and Inspections
   
53.25   Construction permit information
   
53.26   Contractor registration
   
53.27   Employee registration
   
53.28   Contemplated ownership change
   
53.29   Distribution of fees
   
53.30   Inspection procedures
 
   
53.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The Board of Health having jurisdiction in the county.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a house drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of any building and conveys the same to the building sewer
beginning two feet outside the building.
   BUILDING SEWER. The part of the horizontal piping from the end of the
building drain to its connection with the main sewer or private sewage disposal
system and conveying the drainage of but one building site.
   COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM SOURCE. The starting point of the distribution system
of a public water system which serves at least 15 service connections used by
year-round residents or regularly serves at least 25 year-round individuals.
   DISTRIBUTION BOX. A structure designed to distribute the effluent from a
septic tank equally into the various sections of pipe of an absorption system.
   DWELLING. Any house or place used or intended to be used by human occupants
as a place of residence.
   FOUNDATION DRAIN. The portion of a building drainage system provided to
drain ground water from the outside of the foundation or under basement floor,
not including the sewage.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer having jurisdiction in the county, or his
or her authorized representative.
   LIMITING LAYER. Any layer of soil with a stabilized percolation rate
exceeding 60 minutes for the water to fall one inch.
   NON-COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM SOURCE. The starting point of the distribution
system of a public water system that is not a community water system.
   PERCOLATION TEST. A procedure used to determine the ability of soils to
absorb sewage effluents.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co- partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, trust, estate or his or her legal representative or
agent.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any sewage disposal system, including
commercial sewage disposal systems, not constructed, installed, maintained,
operated and owned by a municipality or taxing district established for that
purpose.
   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM SOURCE. The starting point of the distribution system
that is not a public water supply system.
   PUBLIC SEWER. Any sewerage system constructed, installed, maintained,
operated and owned by a municipality or taxing district established for the
purpose of receiving, treating and disposing of sewage.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM.
      (1)   A system for the provision to the public of piped water for human
consumption, if such system has at least 15 service connections or regularly
serves an average of at least 25 individuals daily at least 60 days out of the
year. Such term includes:
         (a)   Any collection, treatment, storage and distribution facilities
under control of the operator of such system and used primarily in connection
with such system; and
         (b)   Any collection or pre-treatment storage facilities not under
such control which are used primarily in connection with such system.
      (2)   A PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM is either a “community water system” or a
“non-community water system”.
   RESIDENTIAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
      (1)   All equipment and devices necessary for proper conduction,
collection, storage, treatment and on-site disposal of sewage from a one- or
two-family dwelling; and
      (2)   Included within, but not limited to the scope of this definition,
are building sewers, septic tanks, subsurface absorption fields and privy
vaults.
   SANITARY PRIVY. A fly-tight rodent-proof structure erected on or over a
properly constructed vault of pit and shall conform to the standards as set
forth in State Board of Health Bulletin No. S.E. 11.
   SANITARY SEWERAGE SYSTEM. For the purpose of this chapter, a system of
sewers which conveys sewage away from the lot on which it originates for
treatment.
   SEPTIC TANK. A water-tight structure into which sewage is discharged for
settling and solids digestion.
   SEWAGE. The water-carried waste derived from ordinary living processes.
   SLUDGE. The digested or partially digested solid material accumulated in a
sewage treatment facility.
   SOIL PROFILE OBSERVATION. Observations of the physical characteristics of
the soil horizons or layers to a depth of at least five feet.
   SUBSURFACE ABSORPTION FIELD. Open-jointed or perforated pipes laid in a
system of trenches into which the effluent from the distribution box is
discharged for direct absorption into the soil.
(1982 Code, § 91.01) (Ord. passed 1-13-1967; Ord. passed 1-22-1979; Ord. passed
4-29-1985; Ord. passed 11-17-1986)
§ 53.02 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall throw, run, drain, seep or otherwise dispose into any
of the streams or waters of the state, or cause, permit or suffer to be thrown,
run, drained, allowed to seep or otherwise disposed into such waters, any
organic or inorganic matter that shall cause or contribute to a polluted
condition of such waters unless a permit for such disposal has been obtained as
authorized by I.C. 13-1-3 to 13-1-37.
   (B)   The design, construction, installation, location, maintenance and
operation of residential sewage disposal systems shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   All private sewage disposal systems utilizing sanitary privies shall
conform to the standards of the State Board of Health.
   (D)   Any dwelling which is not connected to a sanitary sewerage system
shall be provided with a private sewage disposal system.
   (E)   Where soil conditions preclude the installation of a subsurface
absorption field sewage disposal system, the State Board of Health, after
consultations with the local health agency, may approve alternative uses of
such equipment, facilities or pollution control devices as is deemed necessary.
   (F)   If, or whenever, a public sewer is available and is within 300 feet of
a residential or business building or structure, served by a private sewage
disposal system or privy, a direct connection shall be made to said sewer and
the private sewage disposal system or privy shall be abandoned and filled in a
safe and sanitary manner that is acceptable to the Health Officer. When, and
if, a condition exists that may create a health problem, the Health Officer may
require that such connection be made when a public sewer is available beyond
300 feet of the building or structure, and when no other approved alternatives
are available.
   (G)   No person shall construct, install, alter or repair a private sewage
disposal system within the county without first having filed a written
application and having obtained a written permit from the Health Officer.
   (H)   No portion of a private sewage disposal system shall be located upon
another property or lot other than that property or lot upon which the sewage
originates unless easements to that effect are legally recorded and approved by
the proper authority or commission.
   (I)   An on-site residential sewage disposal system the plan for which are
approved, in writing, by the Health Officer prior to the adoption of this
chapter is exempt from the provisions of this chapter relating to design and
installation of residential sewage disposal systems.
(1982 Code, § 91.02) (Ord. passed 1-13-1967; Ord. passed 1-22-1979; Ord. passed
4-29-1985; Ord. passed 11-17-1986) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 BUILDING SEWER.
   (A)   The building sewer shall be located at least 50 feet from any water
supply well or pump suction line serving a residence; however, sewers
constructed of water works grade cast iron having mechanical or push typed
joints or of water works grade pressure type plastic with an SDR rating of 26
having gasketed or push type joints may be located within the 50-foot distance,
but not closer than 20 feet to dug and bored wells and not closer than ten feet
to drilled and driven wells or underground pump suction lines.
   (B)   The building sewer shall be so designed and constructed to give mean
velocities, when flowing full, of not less than two feet per second, based on
Kutters formula using an “N” value of 0.013.
(1982 Code, § 91.03) (Ord. passed 1-13-1967; Ord. passed 1-22-1979; Ord. passed
4-29-1985; Ord. passed 11-17-1986) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 SEPTIC TANKS.
   (A)   General. The following general requirements apply to septic tanks.
      (1)   All septic tanks shall be located in accordance with the distances
in Table II. See §
53.06 of this chapter.
      (2)   Access must be provided to all parts of septic tanks where
necessary to enable adequate inspection, operation and maintenance.
   (B)   Septic tank capacity information.
      (1)   Every septic tank shall have a minimum capacity below the water
line as specified in Table I.
 
Table I: Required Minimum Capacities for Septic Tanks (minimum size tank
1,000-gallon liquid capacity)
Number of Bedrooms in Dwelling Normal Liquid Capacity of Tank in Gallons
3 or less                      1,000
4 or 5                         1,250
6                              1,500
 
      (2)   Minimum water depths in any compartment shall be 32 inches.
      (3)   Maximum depth of water for calculating capacity of the tank shall
not exceed six feet.
      (4)   Private sewage disposal systems shall not be used for the disposal
of:
         (a)   Chemical wastes in quantities which will be detrimental to the
bacterial action of the tank;
         (b)   Roof drainage;
         (c)   Foundation drains;
         (d)   Area drains; and
         (e)   Other wastes which may be determined by the Health Officer as
possibly being detrimental to the operation of the system.
      (5)   All septic tank effluent shall discharge into a subsurface
absorption field or other treatment system as approved in accordance with § 
53.02(E) of this chapter.
   (C)   Details of septic tank construction.
      (1)   Either tees or baffles shall be used as inlet and outlet fixtures.
Inlet baffles shall extend at least eight inches above and six inches below the
water level of the tank. The outlet baffle shall extend above the water level a
distance of at least eight inches and below the water level a distance of 40%
of the liquid depth. A minimum clearance of one inch shall be provided between
the lid of the tank and the top of the baffle or tee. The invert of the inlet
pipe shall be a minimum of three inches higher than the invert of the outlet
pipe.
      (2)   All septic tanks shall contain an access opening which shall be so
located that sludge and scum measurements may be readily ascertained in each
compartment of the tank. This access opening shall be a minimum of eight inches
in its least dimension, and shall be located close to the ground surface. In
the event the tank is covered by 24 inches or more of earth backfill, a riser
with a suitable manhole cover shall be extended to within a minimum of six
inches of the ground surface. The riser shall be at least 30 inches in diameter
and placed over the access opening in the top of the tank. The Health Officer
may require that the riser manhole cover be extended to the ground surface or
above.
      (3)   Material for construction shall be water- tight concrete, metal or
other impervious material.
      (4)   Minimum wall thickness of tanks shall conform to the following
specifications:
 
Fiberglass                                  1/4 inch thick
Poured concrete                             6 inches thick
Poured concrete, reinforced < (4,000 psi)   4 inches thick
Pre-cast concrete, reinforced > (4,000 psi) 2-1/2 inches thick
Segmented blocks, bricks and the like       8 inches thick
Steel                                       1/4 inch thick
 
      (5)   Septic tank bottoms shall conform to the specifications set forth
for septic tank walls.
      (6)   Concrete septic tank tops shall be a minimum of four inches in
thickness and reinforced with one-half-inch reinforcing rods in a six-inch grid
or equivalent.
      (7)   All concrete surfaces above the water line inside septic tanks
shall be given a protective coating of bituminous or similar material.
   (D)   Connection pipes for septic tanks.
      (1)   The pipes connecting septic tanks installed in series shall be four
inches minimum diameter.
      (2)   All inlet and outlet connections at the septic tanks shall be
sealed with an appropriate material.
      (3)   All joints in the sewer connecting septic tanks in series shall be
water-tight.
(1982 Code, § 91.04) (Ord. passed 1-13-1967; Ord. passed 1-22-1979; Ord. passed
4-29-1985; Ord. passed 11-17-1986) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 DISTRIBUTION BOXES.
   (A)   A distribution box or series of distribution boxes shall be installed
between the septic tank and the subsurface absorption system and each
absorption line shall connect directly thereto. It shall be installed in such a
manner that it will remain level and provide equal distribution of flow to the
individual lines of the subsurface absorption field.
   (B)   The pipe connecting septic tanks installed in series, the septic tank
to the distribution box and the pipe connecting the distribution box to the
absorption system must be water-tight and be constructed of cast iron,
vitrified clay tile, concrete sewer tile, asbestos cement, copper (hard drawn,
type K and L) or plastic sewer pipe or equivalent.
   (C)   Distribution boxes shall be constructed of water-tight concrete, metal
or other impervious material.
   (D)   Distribution boxes shall be provided with an opening, such as
removable lid, which will serve as a ready access for inspection, cleaning and
general maintenance.
(1982 Code, § 91.05) (Ord. passed 1-13-1967; Ord. passed 1-22-1979; Ord. passed
4-29-1985; Ord. passed 11-17-1986) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 CONSTRUCTION OF SUBSURFACE ABSORPTION FIELD.
   (A)   All subsurface absorption fields shall be located in accordance with
the distances shown in Table II. In soils underlain by fissured or creviced
rock formations or by sand or gravel, greater separation distances may be
necessary to minimize the possibility of water contamination.
Table II
 Minimum Distances in feet
 from g to
 Septic Tank Absorption System
Table II
                                       Minimum Distances in feet
                                       from g to
                                       Septic Tank Absorption System
Community water system source          200         200
Dwelling or other structure            10          10
Front lot lines                        10          10
Lake or reservoir                      50          50
Non-community water system source      100         100
Private water system source            50          50
Side or rear lot lines                 10          10
Stream, ditch or drainage tile         25          25
Suction water lines                    50          50
Water lines continually under pressure 10          10
 
   (B)   The trench width shall be a minimum of 18 inches with a maximum width
of 36 inches. The trench depth shall be a maximum of 48 inches. Depths of 18
inches to top of the tile are satisfactory.
   (C)   The absorption tile or perforated pipe shall be completely surrounded
by coarse gravel, stone or other approved materials with at least six inches
below the tile or pipe and extending upward to at least two inches above the
tile or pipe.
   (D)   The top of the stone shall be covered with untreated building paper,
two-inch layer of straw or other like material in such a manner as to prevent
the stones becoming clogged with the earth fill.
   (E)   Field tile shall be lain with one-fourth-inch separation between the
ends or joints.
   (F)   Absorption lines located near trees or shrubs should have at least 12
inches of coarse gravel, stone or other approved materials below the pipe or
tile.
   (G)   The gravel, stone or other approved materials shall be a mixture
ranging in size from one- half to two and one-half inches. Fines, dust, sand
and clay must be removed from the material before placing in the trench.
   (H)   Absorption lines shall be individually connected to a distribution box
to ensure equal distribution to the entire field.
   (I)   Subsurface absorption fields shall not be constructed in areas where
the land surface gradient is greater than 12%.
   (J)   A maximum grade of four inches per 100 feet of run shall be given the
distribution tile.
   (K)   No single lateral shall exceed 100 feet in length.
   (L)   All open joints in the distribution lines which would permit entry of
material into the tile shall be covered with paper treated to prevent its
decomposition.
   (M)   There will be a minimum separation of seven and one-half feet, on
center, between the absorption field trenches.
(1982 Code, § 91.06) (Ord. passed 1-13-1967; Ord. passed 1-22-1979; Ord. passed
4-29-1985; Ord. passed 11-17-1986) Penalty, see § 
53.99
§ 53.07 SITE EVALUATION.
   (A)   Properties of the soil profile of each site shall be evaluated using
guidelines as set forth in the soil manuals and handbooks of the Soil
Conservation Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, and where necessary by
percolation tests conducted in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
If soil profile observations are used to determine site feasibility, the
following table shall be used to determine the absorption system size.
 
Table III: Data for Determining Square Feet of Absorption Area Needed Per
Bedroom for Absorption Trenches Using Soil Analysis Figures
Permeability Rating         Square Feet Needed in Trench Bottom Per Bedroom
More than 6 inches per hour 165 sq. ft. per bedroom
1 inch to 6 inches per hour 250 sq. ft. per bedroom
1 inch to 2 inches per hour 330 sq. ft. per bedroom
Less than 1 inch per hour   Unsuitable for absorption field
 
   (B)   Subsurface absorption fields shall not be constructed in soils rated
as having severe or very severe limitations for subsurface sewage disposal by
the Soil Conservation Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, unless that
limitation is not present as shown by field investigation or can be overcome.
Examples of such severe or very severe limitations are soils with a seasonal
high ground water level, bed rock, or where a limiting layer exists within
three feet of the proposed trench bottom. A greater vertical distance is
desirable and may be required where aquifers are in danger of contamination.
   (C)   No absorption field lateral shall be installed in unstable ground such
as unconsolidated fill.
   (D)   Roof, foundation and storm water drains shall not discharge into, nor
upon, subsurface absorption systems.
   (E)   There shall be no construction of any kind, including driveways
covering any portion of a residential sewage disposal system. The connecting
sewers between the house and the septic tank (building sewer), the septic tank
and the distribution box and the distribution box and the absorption lines may
be installed under driveways if the sewer is constructed of cast iron.
   (F)   Installation of private sewage disposal systems which may be subjected
to traffic or heavy construction vehicles shall not be started until such
traffic has completed its final purpose, or until a definite route has been
established whereby such traffic will not travel over the system.
(1982 Code, § 91.07) (Ord. passed 1-13-1967; Ord. passed 1-22-1979; Ord. passed
4-29-1985; Ord. passed 11-17-1986) Penalty, see § 
53.99
§ 53.08 PERCOLATION TESTS.
   (A)   When percolation tests are required before a subsurface absorption
field is installed, a minimum of three test holes distributed evenly over the
proposed lateral field are required. The Health Officer may require as many
additional percolation test holes as may be deemed necessary to determine the
acceptability of the site.
   (B)   Percolation tests, when required, shall be performed by a person
acceptable to the Health Officer.
   (C)   The square feet of subsurface absorption field shall be as specified
in Table IV.
Table IV: Data for Determining Square Feet of Absorption Area Needed per
Bedroom for Absorption Trenches
Time in Minutes for to Fall 1 Inch Effective Absorption Area in Square Feet
                                   Needed in Trench Bottom per Bedroom
Table IV: Data for Determining Square Feet of Absorption Area Needed per
Bedroom for Absorption Trenches
Time in Minutes for to Fall 1 Inch Effective Absorption Area in Square Feet
                                   Needed in Trench Bottom per Bedroom
3 minutes or less per inch         100 sq. ft. per bedroom
4 minutes per inch                 115 sq. ft. per bedroom
5 minutes per inch                 125 sq. ft. per bedroom
10 minutes per inch                165 sq. ft. per bedroom
15 minutes per inch                190 sq. ft. per bedroom
30 minutes per inch                250 sq. ft. per bedroom
60 minutes per inch                330 sq. ft. per bedroom
Over 60 minutes                    Unsuitable to absorption system
 
(1982 Code, § 91.08) (Ord. passed 1-13-1967; Ord. passed 1-22-1979; Ord. passed
4-29-1985; Ord. passed 11-17-1986)
§ 53.09 PERCOLATION TEST PROCEDURE.
   The procedure for conducting the percolation test is as follows.
   (A)   Dig or bore holes with horizontal dimensions of from four to 12 inches
and vertical sides to the estimated depth of the bottom of the proposed
absorption trench. In order to save time, labor and volume of water required
per test, the holes may be bored with a four-inch auger.
   (B)   Scratch the bottom and sides of the hole with a knife blade or sharp
pointed instrument in order to remove any smeared soil surface and to provide a
natural soil interface into which water may percolate. Remove all loose soil
from the hole. Place about two inches of clean coarse sand or fine gravel in
the bottom of the hole.
   (C)   Carefully fill the hole with clear water. By refilling if necessary,
keep the hole full of water for at least 12 hours. This saturation procedure
will give most soils ample time to swell and approach the conditions that
prevail during the wetter seasons of the year.
   (D)   After the 12-hour saturation period, allow the water in the hole to
seep away completely. Remove that portion of the sand or gravel which has
become coated with soil particles.
   (E)   Pour about 12 inches of water into the hole and wait until about six
inches of this water remains.
   (F)   With about six inches of water remaining in the hole, establish a
reference point by use of a nail stuck in the side of the hole near the top of
the hole. From this point, obtain a measurement to the top of the water level.
Record the measurement and the exact time.
   (G)   Continue the measurement to the top of the water surface for a period
of at least three hours and time recording at 15-minute intervals until at
least three consecutive readings of approximately the same rates of percolation
are obtained. It may be necessary to add another six inches of water more than
once to obtain the consecutive same-rate readings.
   (H)   Convert the final time interval obtained in division (G) above to
minutes and divide this figure by the number of inches of water which has
seeped away in that interval to obtain the time for one inch of water to seep
away. The system design should be based on the percolation rate of the slowest
hole on the proposed site.
   (I)   Determine from Table IV the square feet of trench bottom area needed
for each bedroom. See Table V for width and spacing of absorption trenches.
 
Table V
Width of Trench at Bottom  Depth of Trench (in Effective Absorption Area
(in Inches)                Inches)             in Square Feet (Per Linear
                                               Foot)
18                         18 to 30            1.5
24                         18 to 30            2.0
30                         18 to 36            2.5
36                         24 to 36            3.0
 
   (J)   Multiply the square feet of trench bottom absorption area needed for
each bedroom by the number of bedrooms in the house to get the total trench
bottom area needed.
(1982 Code, § 91.09) (Ord. passed 1-13-1967; Ord. passed 1-22-1979; Ord. passed
4-29-1985; Ord. passed 11-17-1986)
§ 53.10 DEFECTS.
   (A)   Should any defect exist or occur in any private sewage disposal system
or privy which would cause said sewage disposal system or privy to fail and
cause an insanitary condition, the defect shall be corrected by the owner or
agent of the owner, occupant or agent of the occupant within the time limit set
by the Health Officer.
   (B)   A service may be required of all systems policy, approved by the
Health Officer, owners of pre-existing aeration treatment
(1982 Code, § 91.10) (Ord. passed 1-13-1967; Ord. passed 1-22-1979; Ord. passed
4-29-1985; Ord. passed 11-17-1986)
§ 53.11 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter may be
served by the Health Officer with a written order stating the nature of the
violation and providing a time limit for satisfactory correction thereof.
   (B)   After receiving an order in writing from the Health Officer, the
owner, agent of the owner, the occupant or agent of the occupant of the
property shall comply with the provisions of this chapter as set forth in said
order and within the time limit included therein. Said order shall be served on
the owner or the owner and the occupant or on the agent of the owner, but may
be served on any person who, by contact with the owner, has assumed the duty of
complying with the provisions of an order.
(1982 Code, § 91.12) (Ord. passed 1-13-1967; Ord. passed 1-22-1979; Ord. passed
4-29-1985; Ord. passed 11-17-1986) Penalty, see §
53.99
PERMITS, REGISTRATIONS AND INSPECTIONS
§ 53.25 CONSTRUCTION PERMIT INFORMATION.
   Construction permit information as follows.
   (A)   Before commencement of construction of any building where a private
sewage disposal system or privy is to be installed or where any alteration,
repair or addition of an existing private sewage disposal system is planned,
the owner or agent of the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the Health Officer. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
approved by the State Board of Health, which application shall be supplemented
by any plans, specifications and other information as deemed necessary by the
Health Officer. The Health Officer may require that plans and specifications
for private sewage disposal systems be submitted to the State Board of Health
for approval.
   (B)   A fee of $25 shall be paid for each permit application.
   (C)   If the private sewage disposal system has not been constructed,
installed, altered or repaired within one year from the date of the
application, the application and any permit that may be issued shall
automatically be terminated.
   (D)   The Health Officer shall deny a permit if the information on the
application is incomplete, inaccurate or indicates that the provisions of this
chapter cannot be met.
(1982 Code, § 91.11) (Ord. passed 1-13-1967; Ord. passed 1-22-1979; Ord. passed
4-29-1985; Ord. passed 11-17-1986)
§ 53.26 CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Every person who has a business engages in the construction,
installation, alteration or repair of private sewage disposal systems in the
county shall make application to the Health Officer to have his or her name
placed on a contractor registry.
   (B)   Any person making application to have his or her name placed on the
contractor registry shall submit with such application a registration fee of
$50 per calendar year or part thereof.
   (C)   The person making application for a contractor registration shall post
a surety bond with the Board of Health in the penal sum of not less than $1,000
in favor the Board of Health conditioned upon registrants faithful compliance
with this chapter.
   (D)   The person who has had his or her name placed on the contractor
registry shall be present at all times that work is being performed on a
private sewage disposal system, unless one of his or her employees who has had
his or her name placed on the employee registry is present.
(1982 Code, § 91.11) (Ord. passed 1-13-1967; Ord. passed 1-22-1979; Ord. passed
4-29-1985; Ord. passed 11-17-1986) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.27 EMPLOYEE REGISTRATION.
   (A)   A contractor registered in accordance with § 52.26 of this chapter may
have one or more of its employees, who are authorized to assume the
responsibility of the contractor in his or her absence, make application to the
Health Officer to have his or her name placed on an employee registry.
   (B)   Any person making application to have his or her name placed on the
employee registry shall submit with such application an employee registration
fee of $10 per calendar year or part thereof.
   (C)   A person who has had his or her name placed on the employee registry
shall be present at all times that work is being performed on a private sewage
disposal system, unless the contractor who has had his or her name placed on
the contractors registry is present.
(1982 Code, § 91.11) (Ord. passed 1-13-1967; Ord. passed 1-22-1979; Ord. passed
4-29-1985; Ord. passed 11-17-1986) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.28 CONTEMPLATED OWNERSHIP CHANGE.
   Any person requesting an inspection of an existing private sewage disposal
system and/or individual water supply system for the purpose of obtaining
information which is to be utilized in the selling or purchasing of a dwelling
or building, shall make application for such inspection on a form provided by
the Health Officer. An inspection fee of $40 shall be submitted with the
application.
(1982 Code, § 91.11) (Ord. passed 1-13-1967; Ord. passed 1-22-1979; Ord. passed
4-29-1985; Ord. passed 11-17-1986)
§ 53.29 DISTRIBUTION OF FEES.
   All fees collected under the terms of this chapter shall be receipted
monthly into the County Health Fund for services rendered in enforcing this
chapter.
(1982 Code, § 91.11) (Ord. passed 1-13-1967; Ord. passed 1-22-1979; Ord. passed
4-29-1985; Ord. passed 11-17-1986)
§ 53.30 INSPECTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The contractor who constructs, installs, alters or repairs a private
sewage disposal system in the county shall notify the Health Officer at least
24 hours in advance as to when the work is ready for final inspection and
before any underground portions are covered.
   (B)   The provisions of the permit for the construction, installation,
alteration or repair of a private sewage disposal system or privy shall not be
considered to be fulfilled until the work is completed and has been inspected
and approved by the Health Officer.
   (C)   Once the initial underground portions of a private sewage disposal
system have been started, the entire system shall be completed just as soon as
possible. The Health Officer may require that a system be covered and graded
within a specified period of time.
   (D)   In lieu of an on-site inspection, the contractor may, at the option of
the Health Officer, file a certificate that the work has been designed and
constructed to comply with each and all of the applicable provisions and
limitations of this chapter and also that such work has been completed in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications as submitted with the
application.
   (E)   The Health Officer shall be permitted to enter upon all properties at
the proper time for purposes of inspection, measurement, observation, sampling
and testing necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
(1982 Code, § 91.11) (Ord. passed 1-13-1967; Ord. passed 1-22-1979; Ord. passed
4-29-1985; Ord. passed 11-17-1986)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor. On conviction, the violator shall be punished, for the first
offense, by a fine of not more than $500; for the second offense, by a fine of
not more than $1,000; and, for the third and each subsequent offense, by a fine
of not more than $1,000, to which may be added imprisonment for any determinate
period not exceeding 90 days, and each day after the expiration of the time
limit for abating insanitary conditions and completing improvements to abate
such conditions as ordered by the County Board of Health or by the duly
appointed Health Officer, shall constitute a distinct and separate offense.
(1982 Code, § 91.99) (Ord. passed 1-13-1967; Ord. passed 1-22-1979; Ord. passed
4-29-1985; Ord. passed 11-17-1986)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRANSPORTATION EMERGENCIES
      
72.   PARKING
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Traffic-control devices
   
70.02   Multi-way stop signs in urban or residential areas
   
70.03   Off-road vehicles, snowmobiles and golf carts
§ 70.01 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Purpose. To carry out local ordinances and to regulate, warn or guide
traffic in the county, not including state highways, the schedule of traffic-
control devices and the placement thereof is hereby adopted for such purposes.
(1982 Code, § 99.01)
   (B)   Installation and maintenance. The County Highway Department is
instructed to install and maintain such traffic-control devices in accord with
the adopted schedule, and same shall conform to the state manual and
specifications unless lack of land ownership or physical traits of terrain
prohibit.
(1982 Code, § 99.02)
(Ord. passed 6-26-1996)
§ 70.02 MULTI-WAY STOP SIGNS IN URBAN OR RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   (A)   Adoption of policy by reference. Certain rural areas in the county are
changing to residence districts or urban districts, as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-
153 and 9-13-2-193, respectively.
(1982 Code, § 98.01)
   (B)   Purpose. The Board of Commissioners may determine it proper to install
multi-way stop signs in urban or residential areas not normally warranting
stop signs in order to provide additional safety for motorists, pedestrians,
bicyclists and residents exiting from driveways.
(1982 Code, § 98.02)
   (C)   Installation. The installation of multi-way stop signs in urban or
residential areas may be recommended as a safety enhancement to the County
Board of Commissioners by the County Highway Department and the County
Sheriff’s Department, only when speed control posting, law enforcement efforts
and field investigation have preceded the recommendation.
(1982 Code, § 98.03)
   (D)   Approval by recommendation. The County Board of Commissioners may
approve the recom-mendation of the County Highway Department and the County
Sheriff’s Department for installation of multi-way stop signs in urban or
residential areas upon a majority vote of the members of the Board.
(1982 Code, § 98.04)
(Ord. passed 5-26-1993)
§ 70.03 OFF-ROAD VEHICLES, SNOWMOBILES AND GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Subject to the regulations contained within this section, and all
other applicable state and local laws, off-road vehicles (as defined by I.C.
14-8-2-185), snowmobiles (as defined by I.C. 14-8-2-261) and golf carts (as
defined by I.C. 9-13-2-69.7) are hereby permitted to operate on the roads and
highways that are under the jurisdiction of the Wayne County Board of
Commissioners. This section does not apply to roads and highways within the
state highway system or those roads and highways within the corporation
boundaries of cities and towns within Wayne County.
   (B)   Owners of the vehicles described herein and regulated hereby shall
register the off-road vehicle or snowmobile in compliance with I.C. 9-18.1-14-
1; I.C. 9-18.1-14-3; I.C. 9-18.1-14-4; I.C. 9-18.1-14-5; and I.C. 9-18.1-14-32.
   (C)   Owners of the vehicles described herein and regulated hereby shall
comply with I.C. 14-16-1-1 et seq., as applicable.
   (D)   A person under the age of 18 years old shall comply with I.C. 9-18.1-
14-11 (Youth Helmet Law) while riding or operating an off-road vehicle.
   (E)   Any person who operates an off-road vehicle, snowmobile or golf cart
upon the roads and highways that are under the jurisdiction of the Wayne County
Board of Commissioners, shall possess a valid Indiana driver license.
   (F)   An operator of an off-road vehicle, snowmobile or golf cart shall have
evidence of in place and valid liability insurance issued by an insurance
underwriter authorized to issue insurance in the state of Indiana in an amount
equal to or greater than the insurance requirements set forth in I.C. 9-25-4-
5 whenever the off-road vehicle, snowmobile or golf cart is operated upon the
roads and highways under the jurisdiction of the Wayne County Board of
Commissioners.
   (G)   No passengers are permitted on single seat off-road vehicles. The
number of passengers permitted at any time to simultaneously occupy an off-road
vehicles, snowmobiles and golf carts is limited to the number of manufacturer-
installed passenger seats on the vehicle.
   (H)   An operator of an off-road vehicle, snowmobile or golf cart is
permitted to cross a highway in the state highway system, at right angles, in
order to travel from one highway under the jurisdiction of the county to
another highway under the jurisdiction of the county when the operation can be
done safely.
   (I)   An off-road vehicle, snowmobile and golf cart may not be operated
between sunset and sunrise without at least one operable headlight and one
operable taillight.
   (J)   Golf carts must have a "Slow Moving Vehicle" sign pursuant to the
authority granted under I.C. 9-21-9-0.5 and I.C. 9-21-9-2, if the golf cart is
operated at less then 25 miles per hour.
   (K)   Off-road vehicles, snowmobiles and golf carts must travel in single
file when operated upon road and highways under the jurisdiction of the Wayne
County Board of Commissioners.
   (L)   Any law enforcement agency, including but not limited to: the Wayne
County Sheriffs Department, the Indiana State Police, Indiana Conservation
officers and Wayne County municipal police officers may enforce this section.
   (M)   Should any provision of this section be declared, by a court of
jurisdiction, to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity or
impair the enforcement of the remaining provisions of this section, or any
portion thereof.
   (N)   Penalties for a violation of this section are fines up to but not
exceeding the following amounts:
      (1)   Violation of first offense shall be $100.
      (2)   Violation of second and subsequent offenses shall be $250.
   (O)   Three or more violations of this section by a single operator
occurring within a 12- month period shall constitute grounds for the withdrawal
of the registrations of any vehicles covered by this section owned by that
operator, subject to the owner's right to appeal such registration withdrawal
to the Wayne County Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 2019-010, passed 8-7-2019)
CHAPTER 71: TRANSPORTATION EMERGENCIES
Section
Snow Emergencies
   
71.01   Short title
   
71.02   Definitions
   
71.03   Parking on roadways during snow emergencies prohibited
   
71.04   Stalled vehicles in snow, sleet or ice situations
   
71.05   Declarations of the Commissioners
   
71.06   Termination of parking prohibition by the Commissioners
   
71.07   Provisions temporarily effective to take precedence
   
71.08   Removal, impounding and return of vehicles
   
71.09   Citation of vehicle
   
71.10   Evidence with respect to vehicles parked or left in violation
Other Transportation Emergencies
   
71.25   Short title
   
71.26   Definitions
   
71.27   Transportation warning
   
71.28   Classifications of transportation or snow emergencies
   
71.29   Prohibition of parking on roadways
   
71.30   Stalled vehicles during transportation or snow emergencies
   
71.31   Removal, impounding and return of vehicles
   
71.32   Citation on vehicle
   
71.33   Evidence with respect to vehicles parked or left in violation
   
71.34   Action required from utility companies to remove damaged utility system
components from roadway
   
71.35   Declarations of the Commissioners
   
71.36   Termination of transportation emergency by the Commissioners
   
71.37   Provisions temporarily effective to take precedence
 
   
71.99   Penalty
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 71.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Snow Emergency
Ordinance of Wayne County, Indiana”.
(1982 Code, § 72.01) (Ord. passed 12-1-1986; Ord. passed 12-22-1986)
§ 71.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSIONERS. The Board of Commissioners of Wayne County, Indiana.
   ROADWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel located in the unincorporated areas of the county.
   SNOW EMERGENCY. A condition declared to be such by the Board of
Commissioners of the county or its authorized representative.
(1982 Code, § 72.02) (Ord. passed 12-1-1986; Ord. passed 12-22-1986)
§ 71.03 PARKING ON ROADWAYS DURING SNOW EMERGENCIES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Whenever the Commissioners find, on the basis of falling snow, sleet
or freezing rain, or on the basis of a forecast by the U.S. Weather Bureau, or
other weather service, of snow, sleet or freezing rain, that weather conditions
will make it necessary that motor vehicle traffic be expedited or prohibited
and that parking on county roadways be prohibited or restricted for snow
plowing and other purposes, the Commissioners shall put into effect a parking
prohibition on parts of or all roadways as necessary by declaring a snow
emergency.
   (B)   Once in effect, a prohibition under this section shall remain in
effect until terminated by announcement of the Commissioners in accordance with
this subchapter. While the prohibition is in effect, no person shall park or
allow to remain parked any vehicle on any portion of a roadway to which the
snow emergency applies.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit parking at any
time or place where it is forbidden by any other provision of law.
(1982 Code, § 72.03) (Ord. passed 12-1-1986; Ord. passed 12-22-1986) Penalty,
see §
71.99
§ 71.04 STALLED VEHICLES IN SNOW, SLEET OR ICE SITUATIONS.
   Whenever a vehicle becomes stalled for any reason, whether or not in
violation of this subchapter, and whether or not a snow emergency has been
declared pursuant to this subchapter, on any part of a roadway on which there
is a covering of snow, sleet or ice which there is a parking prohibition in
effect, the person operating the vehicle shall take immediate action to have
the vehicle towed or pushed off the roadway. No person shall abandon or leave
his or her vehicle in the roadway (regardless of whether he or she indicates,
by raising of the hood or otherwise, that the vehicle is stalled), except for
the purpose of securing assistance during the actual time necessary to go to a
nearby telephone or to a nearby garage, gasoline station or other place of
assistance and return without delay.
(1982 Code, § 72.04) (Ord. passed 12-1-1986; Ord. passed 12-22-1986) Penalty,
see §
71.99
§ 71.05 DECLARATIONS OF THE COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   (1)   The Commissioners shall cause each declaration made by them
pursuant to this subchapter to be publicly announced by means of broadcasts
from radio stations with a normal operating range covering the county. They may
cause the declaration to be further announced in newspapers of general
circulation when feasible.
      (2)   Each announcement shall describe the action taken by the
Commissioners, including the time it became or will become effective, and shall
specify the roadways or areas affected.
   (B)   A parking prohibition declared by the Commissioners shall go into
effect when designated.
(1982 Code, § 72.05) (Ord. passed 12-1-1986; Ord. passed 12-22-1986)
§ 71.06 TERMINATION OF PARKING PROHIBITION BY THE COMMISSIONERS.
   Whenever the Commissioners find that some or all of the conditions which
give rise to a snow emergency no longer exist, they may declare the prohibition
terminated, in whole or in part, in a manner prescribed by this subchapter,
effective immediately upon announcement.
(1982 Code, § 72.06) (Ord. passed 12-1-1986; Ord. passed 12-22-1986)
§ 71.07 PROVISIONS TEMPORARILY EFFECTIVE TO TAKE PRECEDENCE.
   Any provision of this subchapter which becomes effective by declaration of
the Commissioners or upon occurrence of certain weather conditions shall, while
temporarily in effect, take precedence over other conflicting provisions of law
normally in effect; except that, it shall not take precedence over provisions
of law relating to traffic accidents, emergency travel of authorized emergency
vehicles or emergency traffic directions by an officer.
(1982 Code, § 72.07) (Ord. passed 12-1-1986; Ord. passed 12-22-1986)
§ 71.08 REMOVAL, IMPOUNDING AND RETURN OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Employees of the County Sheriff’s Department and County Highway
Department are authorized to remove or have removed a vehicle from a roadway to
the nearest garage or other place of safety, including another place on a
roadway, or to a garage designated or maintained by the Sheriff’s Department,
Highway Department or other facility maintained by the county, when:
      (1)   The vehicle is parked on a part of a roadway on which a parking
prohibition is in effect;
      (2)   The vehicle is stalled on a part of a roadway on which there is a
covering of snow, sleet or ice on which there is a parking prohibition in
effect and the person who was operating the vehicle does not appear to be
removing it in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter; and
      (3)   The vehicle is parked in violation of any parking ordinance or
provisions of law and is interfering or about to interfere with snow removal
operations.
   (B)   Whenever the Sheriff’s Department or Highway Department removes or has
removed a vehicle from a roadway as authorized in this section and the
Sheriff’s Department or Highway Department knows or is able to ascertain from
the registration records in the vehicle the name and address of the owner
thereof, the Sheriff’s Department or Highway Department shall immediately
attempt to give or cause to be given notice in writing to the owner of the fact
of the removal and the reasons therefor and of the place to which the vehicle
has been removed. In the event any vehicle is stored in a public garage, a copy
of the notice shall be given to the proprietor of the garage.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever the Sheriff’s Department or Highway Department removes
or has removed a vehicle from a roadway under this subchapter and does not know
and is not able to ascertain the name of the owners, or for any other reason is
unable to give the notice to the owner as hereinbefore provided, and in the
event the vehicle is not returned to the owner within a period of three days,
the Sheriff’s Department or Highway Department shall immediately send or cause
to be sent a written report of the removal by mail to the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles whose duty it is to register motor vehicles, and shall file a copy of
the notice with the proprietor of any public garage in which the vehicle may be
stored.
      (2)   The notice shall include a complete description of the vehicle, the
date, time and place from which removed, the reasons for the removal and name
of the garage or place where the vehicle is stored.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall recover any vehicle removed in accordance with
this section, except as provided herein. Before the owner or person in charge
of the vehicle shall be allowed to recover it from the place where it has been
placed or impounded, he or she shall present to a member of the County
Sheriff’s Department evidence of his or her identity and right to possession of
the vehicle, shall sign a receipt for its return, shall pay the cost of
removal, plus any costs of storage accrued.
      (2)   Until paid, these charges constitute a lien on the vehicle which
may be enforced in conformance with I.C. 32-8-31-5 or I.C. 9-9-5-6.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Sheriff’s Department and/or Highway
Department to keep a record of each vehicle removed in accordance with this
section. The record shall include a description of the vehicle, its license
number, the date and time of its removal, where it was removed from, its
location, the name and address of its owner and last operator, if known, its
final disposition and the parking violation involved.
   (F)   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles pursuant to this
subchapter, the Sheriff’s Department or Highway Department may enter into
towing contracts or agreements for the removal and storage of abandoned
vehicles.
   (G)   Neither the owner, lessee or occupant of the property from which an
abandoned vehicle is removed nor the Highway Department, County Commissioners
or Sheriff’s Department, authorized towing service or automobile scrapyard
shall be liable for any loss or damage to any vehicle occurring during its
removal, storage or disposition.
   (H)   This section shall be supplemental to any other provisions of law
granting members of the Sheriff’s Department authority to remove vehicles.
(1982 Code, § 72.08) (Ord. passed 12-1-1986; Ord. passed 12-22-1986)
§ 71.09 CITATION OF VEHICLE.
   Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or left in
violation of any provision of this subchapter, and is not removed and impounded
as provided for in this subchapter, the officer of the Sheriff’s Department
finding the vehicle may take its registration number and any other information
displayed on the vehicle which may identify its user, and shall conspicuously
affix a traffic summons to the vehicle in the same manner and pursuant to the
same procedures applicable to the issuance of other traffic violations.
(1982 Code, § 72.09) (Ord. passed 12-1-1986; Ord. passed 12-22-1986)
§ 71.10 EVIDENCE WITH RESPECT TO VEHICLES PARKED OR LEFT IN VIOLATION.
   In any prosecution with regard to a vehicle parked or left in a place or in
a condition in violation of any provision of this subchapter, proof that the
particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked or left in violation,
together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was at the time
the registered owner of the vehicle, shall constitute prima facie evidence that
the defendant was the person who parked or left the vehicle in violation of
this subchapter.
(1982 Code, § 72.10) (Ord. passed 12-1-1986; Ord. passed 12-22-1986)
OTHER TRANSPORTATION EMERGENCIES
§ 71.25 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Transportation
Emergency Ordinance of Wayne County, Indiana”.
(1982 Code, § 47.01) (Ord. passed 2-12-1997)
§ 71.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSIONERS. The Board of Commis- sioners of Wayne County, Indiana.
   ROADWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of the right-of-way of
every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel located in the unincorporated areas of
the county.
   SNOW EMERGENCY. A particular type of transportation emergency caused by
winter weather conditions including ice, freezing rain, sleet, snow, blowing
and drifting snow and/or blizzards; a condition declared to be such by the
Board of Commissioners of the county or its authorized representative.
   TRANSPORTATION EMERGENCY. A situation, actual or impending, which presents
hazardous conditions for the normal use of roadways which may be caused by or
result from accumulations of ice, freezing rain, sleet, snow, blowing and
drifting snow, blizzards, flood water, high water, wind caused damage, roadway
damage or other hazardous event; a condition declared to be such by the Board
of Commissioners of the county or its authorized representative to regulate the
operation and parking of motor vehicles during emergency situations.
   TRANSPORTATION WARNING. An advisory communication issued to warn motor
vehicle operators of conditions which present a hazard to the normal operation
of motor vehicles on roadways. A TRANSPORTATION WARNING may be issued for a
hazardous event which affects the normal use of roadways as determined by the
County Sheriff, Highway Supervisor and/or Emergency Management Director, but
does not impose restriction on travel or parking motor vehicles, other than
those normally required by law.
(1982 Code, § 47.02) (Ord. passed 2-12-1997)
§ 71.27 TRANSPORTATION WARNING.
   (A)   Whenever the County Sheriff, the County Highway Department Supervisor
or the County Emergency Management Director or their respective designees find,
on the basis of existing conditions of ice, freezing rain, sleet, snow, blowing
and drifting snow, high water or damage debris on roadways or other hazardous
conditions which may present hazardous situations to the normal operation of
motor vehicles on the roadways and that motor vehicle operators need to be
aware of said conditions to maintain the safe operation of their motor
vehicles, then the Sheriff, Supervisor or EMA Director or their respective
designees, on consultation and agreement among themselves, may cause to be
issued a transportation warning for parts of or all roadways as determined
necessary. Transportation warnings may be issued for hazardous conditions which
do not warrant an immediate emergency declaration by the Commissioners.
   (B)   (1)   The Sheriff, Supervisor or EMA Director shall cause each warning
issued by them pursuant to this subchapter to be publicly announced by means of
broadcasts from radio stations located within and with a normal operating range
covering the county.
      (2)   They may cause the warning to be further announced in newspapers of
general circulation when feasible.
      (3)   Each warning shall describe the situation threatening motor vehicle
operation on roadways, the time the warning will become effective and shall
specify the roadways or area affected.
   (C)   Whenever the Sheriff, Supervisor or EMA Director or their designees
find that some or all of the conditions which give rise to a transportation
warning being issued no longer exist, they may terminate the warning, in whole
or in part. Such termination shall be announced in the same manner required to
issue the original warning and shall become effective upon announcement.
   (D)   No unusual restriction or prohibition on the parking of motor vehicles
or on the operation of motor vehicles upon roadways shall be imposed or implied
under a transportation warning. The warning shall be advisory in nature and not
regulatory.
   (E)   A transportation or snow emergency declared by the Commissioners
pursuant to this subchapter will supersede a transportation warning issued for
the same causative event and same roadways or area.
(1982 Code, § 47.03) (Ord. passed 2-12-1997)
§ 71.28 CLASSIFICATIONS OF TRANSPORTATION OR SNOW EMERGENCIES.
   There shall be two classifications of transportation or snow emergencies
which may be declared by the Commissioners to control highway use.
   (A)   Essential travel permitted transportation or snow emergency.
      (1)   This classification is determined by the Commissioners to be a
significant emergency event. Roadways have, or are expected to have,
significant accumulations of ice, freezing rain, sleet, snow or significant
blowing and drifting of snow or, high water covering large areas of roadways to
a dangerous depth or; numerous trees, limbs, utility poles and/or power lines
or other damage debris are reported on highways. Roadways, or major sections of
the roadway network, are closed or impassable. Travel may be significantly
delayed and there exists a risk of injury to motorists exposed to the existing
conditions.
      (2)   Only essential travel is permitted. ESSENTIAL TRAVEL shall include
travel to and from work; travel to obtain essential medical care or required
prescription medications; travel to obtain essential supplies of food, fuel or
safe shelter and; travel of emergency vehicles and emergency workers engaged in
emergency operations. All non-essential travel is prohibited. Vehicle operators
shall exercise all due caution in the operation of motor vehicles.
   (B)   Travel prohibited transportation or snow emergency. This
classification is determined by the Commissioners to be a crippling emergency
event. Roadways have, or are expected to have, heavy accumulations of ice,
freezing rain, sleet or snow or heavy blowing and drifting of snow or blizzard
conditions or very high water covering or closing large areas of roadway or
washouts of road surface, road bed, culverts, bridge approaches or bridges or
widespread trees, limbs, utility poles and/or power lines or other damage
debris are reported on roadways. The major portion of the roadway network is
closed or impassable. Conditions make it impossible to safely operate roadway
maintenance equipment. Travel exposes motorists to significant risk of injury
or death.
   (C)   Non-emergency vehicles and personnel. All roadways are closed to non-
emergency vehicles and personnel. Travel is prohibited to all persons with the
exception of the following who are at the time engaged in necessary emergency
operations.
      (1)   Emergency personnel, including rostered members of law enforcement
agencies, fire departments, emergency medical service providers, search and
rescue organizations, rescue squads, military organizations, disaster relief
organizations, emergency management personnel and requested mutual aid
personnel.
      (2)   Critical occupations personnel, including employees of utility
companies, highway departments, towing and wrecker services, fuel delivery
suppliers, news media and hospital and healthcare organizations.
(1982 Code, § 47.04) (Ord. passed 2-12-1997)
§ 71.29 PROHIBITION OF PARKING ON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever the Commissioners declare any transportation or snow
emergency or invoke any transportation or snow emergency classification
described in §
71.28 of this chapter or otherwise determine that existing or expected weather
conditions or other hazardous situations will make it necessary that motor
vehicle traffic be expedited or prohibited and that parking on county roadways
be prohibited or restricted for snow plowing, debris removal, access for
emergency vehicles, evacuation or other emergency purposes, the Commissioners
shall put into effect a parking prohibition on parts of or all roadways as
necessary by declaring a transportation or snow emergency. The parking
prohibition shall become effective concurrently with the transportation or snow
emergency declaration.
   (B)   Once in effect, a prohibition under this section shall remain in
effect until the transportation or snow emergency is terminated by announcement
of the Commissioners in accordance with this subchapter. While the prohibition
is in effect, no person shall park or allow to remain parked any vehicle on any
portion of a roadway to which the transportation or snow emergency applies.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit parking at any
time or place where it is forbidden by any other provision of law.
(1982 Code, § 47.05) (Ord. passed 2-12-1997)
§ 71.30 STALLED VEHICLES DURING TRANSPORTATION OR SNOW EMERGENCIES.
   Whenever a vehicle becomes stalled for any reason on any part of a roadway
on which a transportation or snow emergency or parking prohibition is in effect
as declared by the Commissioners, the person operating the vehicle shall take
immediate action to have the vehicle towed, removed or pushed off the roadway.
No person shall abandon or leave his or her vehicle in the roadway (regardless
of whether he or she indicates, by raising of hood or otherwise that the
vehicle is stalled), except for the purpose of securing assistance during the
actual time necessary to go to a nearby telephone or to a nearby garage,
gasoline station or other place of assistance and return without delay.
(1982 Code, § 47.06) (Ord. passed 2-12-1997)
§ 71.31 REMOVAL, IMPOUNDING AND RETURN OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Employees of the County Sheriff’s Department and County Highway
Department are authorized to remove or have removed a vehicle from a roadway to
the nearest garage or other place of safety, including another place or a
roadway, or to a garage designated or maintained by the Sheriff’s Department,
Highway Department or facility maintained by the county, when:
      (1)   The vehicle is parked on a part of a roadway on which a
transportation or snow emergency or parking prohibition is in effect;
      (2)   The vehicle is stalled on a part of a roadway on which there is a
transportation or snow emergency in effect and the person who was operating the
vehicle does not appear to be removing it in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter and the vehicle presents a hazard to traffic flow, snow or
debris removal or other emergency operations; and
      (3)   The vehicle is parked in violation of any parking ordinance or
provisions of law and is interfering or about to interfere with snow or debris
removal or any other emergency operations.
   (B)   Whenever the Sheriff’s Department or Highway Department removes or has
removed a vehicle from a roadway as authorized in this section and the
Sheriff’s Department or Highway Department knows, or is able to ascertain from
the registration records in the vehicle, the name and address of the owner
thereof, the Sheriff’s Department or Highway Department shall immediately
attempt to give or cause to be given notice of the removal in writing to the
owner of the vehicle. In the event any vehicle is stored in a public garage, a
copy of the notice shall be given to the proprietor of the garage.
   (C)   Whenever the Sheriff’s Department or Highway Department removes or has
removed a vehicle from a roadway under this subchapter and does not know or is
not able to ascertain the name of the owner, or for any other reason is unable
to give the notice to the owner as hereinbefore provided and, in the event the
vehicle is not returned to the owner within a period of three days, the
Sheriff’s Department or Highway Department shall immediately send or cause to
be sent a written report of the removal by mail to the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles, whose duty it is to register motor vehicles, and shall file a copy of
the notice with the proprietor of any public garage in which the vehicle may be
stored. The notice shall include a complete description of the vehicle, the
date, time and place from which removed, the reasons for the removal and the
name of the garage or place where the vehicle is stored.
   (D)   No person shall recover any vehicle removed in accordance with this
section, except as provided herein. Before the owner or person in charge of the
vehicle shall be allowed to recover it from the place where it has been placed
or impounded, he or she shall present to a member of the County Sheriff’s
Department, or authorized towing service, evidence of his or her identity and
right to possession of the vehicle, shall sign a receipt for its return and
shall pay the cost of removal, plus any costs of storage accrued. Until paid,
these charges constitute a lien on the vehicle which may be enforced in
conformance with I.C. 32-8-31-5 or I.C. 9-9-5-6.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Sheriff’s Department and/or Highway
Department to keep a record of each vehicle removed in accordance with this
section. The record shall include a description of the vehicle, its license
number, the date and time of its removal, where it was removed from, its
location, the name and address of its owner and last operator, if known, its
final disposition and the parking violation involved. The towing service
authorized by the Sheriff’s Department and/or the Highway Department will
obtain said record for each vehicle removed by the towing service for which a
Sheriff’s Department vehicle tow in card is not provided. The authorized towing
service shall provide said records to the Sheriff’s Department for each vehicle
so removed.
   (F)   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles pursuant to this
subchapter, the Sheriff’s Department or Highway Department may enter into
towing contracts or agreements for the removal and storage of abandoned
vehicles.
   (G)   Neither the owner, lessee or occupant of the property from which an
abandoned vehicle is removed, nor the Highway Department, County Commissioners
or Sheriff’s Department, authorized towing service or automobile scrapyard,
shall be liable for any loss or damage to any vehicle occurring during its
removal, storage or disposition. Neither shall the County Highway Department,
nor any employee of the Department, nor any private contractor engaged by the
Department, be held liable for any loss or damage to any vehicle which is
parked, stalled or abandoned on a roadway when such damage occurs during snow
or debris removal operations.
   (H)   This section shall be supplemental to any other provisions of law
granting members of the Sheriff’s Department authority to remove vehicles.
(1982 Code, § 47.07) (Ord. passed 2-12-1997)
§ 71.32 CITATION ON VEHICLE.
   Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or left in
violation of any provision of this subchapter, and is not removed and impounded
as provided for in this subchapter, the officer of the Sheriff’s Department
finding the vehicle may take its registration number and any other information
displayed on the vehicle which may identify its user, and shall conspicuously
affix a traffic summons to the vehicle in the manner and pursuant to the same
procedures applicable to the issuance of other traffic violations.
(1982 Code, § 47.08) (Ord. passed 2-12-1997)
§ 71.33 EVIDENCE WITH RESPECT TO VEHICLES PARKED OR LEFT IN VIOLATION.
   In any prosecution with regard to a vehicle parked or left in a place or in
a condition in violation of any provision of this subchapter, proof that the
particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked or left in violation,
together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was at the time
the registered owner of the vehicle, shall constitute prima facie evidence that
the defendant was the person who parked or left the vehicle in violation of
this subchapter.
(1982 Code, § 47.09) (Ord. passed 2-12-1997)
§ 71.34 ACTION REQUIRED FROM UTILITY COMPANIES TO REMOVE DAMAGED UTILITY SYSTEM
COMPONENTS FROM ROADWAY.
   (A)   Whenever employees of the County Highway Department or the County
Sheriff’s Department find the property of a utility company, including utility
poles, utility structures, transmission or distribution wires, guy wires,
transformers, regulators, meters or other appurtenances are damaged and are
obstructing, interfering or about to interfere with roadway travel, snow or
debris removal operations or other emergency operations, they shall cause the
appropriate utility company operator to be notified of the obstructing
property. The utility company operator will take immediate and necessary action
to render such property or components safe and to facilitate removal of such
property or components from the roadway.
   (B)   A knowledgeable employee will be dispatched to each reported site
where damaged utility property obstructs roadways in a timely manner.
   (C)   The employee will take necessary steps to de-energize the affected
damaged utility system or otherwise render the damaged system safe for the
removal of components which obstruct roadways.
   (D)   When the affected damaged utility system is de-energized or otherwise
rendered safe, the employee or utility operator will report this information to
the County Highway Department and/or the County Sheriff’s Department and will
coordinate any further debris clearance procedures as required.
(1982 Code, § 47.10) (Ord. passed 2-12-1997)
§ 71.35 DECLARATIONS OF THE COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the county may declare one of the two
transportation or snow emergency classifications as set forth in §
71.31 of this chapter, based upon recommendations and situation reports
provided by the County Sheriff, the County Highway Department Supervisor and/or
the County Emergency Management Agency Director or their respective designees.
Once declared, the transportation or snow emergency classification may be up-
graded, down-graded, extended or terminated by action of the Commissioners.
   (B)   The Commissioners shall cause each declaration made by them pursuant
to this subchapter to be publicly announced by means of broadcasts from radio
and television stations located within and with a normal operating range
covering the county. They may cause the declaration to be further announced in
newspapers of general circulation when feasible. Each announcement shall
describe the action taken by the Commissioners, including the time it became or
will become effective, and shall specify the roadways or area affected. A
transportation emergency shall go into effect when designated.
(1982 Code, § 47.11) (Ord. passed 2-12-1997)
§ 71.36 TERMINATION OF TRANSPORTATION EMERGENCY BY THE COMMISSIONERS.
   Whenever the Commissioners find that some or all of the conditions which
give rise to a transportation or snow emergency no longer exist, they may
declare the emergency terminated, in whole or in part, in a manner prescribed
by this subchapter, effective immediately upon announcement.
(1982 Code, § 47.12) (Ord. passed 2-12-1997)
§ 71.37 PROVISIONS TEMPORARILY EFFECTIVE TO TAKE PRECEDENCE.
   Any provision of this subchapter which becomes effective by declaration of
the Commissioners or upon occurrence of certain weather or hazardous conditions
shall, while temporarily in effect, take precedence over other provisions of
law normally in effect; except that, it shall not take precedence over
provisions of law relating to traffic accidents, emergency travel of authorized
emergency vehicles or emergency traffic directions by a law enforcement
officer.
(1982 Code, § 47.13) (Ord. passed 2-12-1997)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of §§
71.01 through
71.10 of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not more than $150, or
less than $10.
(1982 Code, § 72.11)
   (C)   Every person convicted of a violation of any provisions of §§
71.25 through
71.37 of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not more than $150, or
less than $10.
(1982 Code, § 47.14)
(Ord. passed 12-1-1986; Ord. passed 12-22-1986; Ord. passed 2-12-1997)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Parking not to obstruct traffic
   
72.03   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
72.04   Parking adjacent to schools
   
72.05   Parking on narrow roads
   
72.06   Parking on one-way roads
   
72.07   Parking near hazardous or congested places
   
72.08   Application
   
72.09   Authority to impound vehicles
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of Wayne County, Indiana.
   EMPLOYEES. All personnel gainfully employed and who occupy working space in
either the County Court House or county administration building.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading.
   PARKING DECAL. Small round decal to be placed in lower right side of rear
window to authorize parking.
   ROAD. Any road designated as part of the county road system and confined to
the boundaries of the county.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a road improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SHERIFF. Every officer of the County Sheriff’s Department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of
traffic regulations.
   SUPERINTENDENT. Superintendent of the County Department of Public Buildings.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a road, excepting devices, moved by human power.
(1982 Code, § 71.01) (Ord. passed 9-25-1978; Ord. passed 5-2-1988)
§ 72.02 PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a road in such a manner or under such
conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of width of the roadway for
free movement of vehicular traffic.
(1982 Code, § 71.02) (Ord. passed 9-25-1978; Ord. passed 5-2-1988) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 72.03 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose
of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; and/or
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
(1982 Code, § 71.03) (Ord. passed 9-25-1978; Ord. passed 5-2-1988) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 72.04 PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   (A)   The Board is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating no parking
upon either or both sides of any road adjacent to any school property when such
parking would, in its opinion, interfere with traffic or create a hazardous
situation.
   (B)   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon either side
of a road adjacent to any school as authorized herein, no person shall park a
vehicle in any such designated place.
(1982 Code, § 71.04) (Ord. passed 9-25-1978; Ord. passed 5-2-1988) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 72.05 PARKING ON NARROW ROADS.
   (A)   The Board is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating no parking
upon any road when the width of the roadway does not exceed 20 feet, or upon
one side of a road as indicated by such signs when the width of the roadway
does not exceed 30 feet.
   (B)   When official signs prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow roads
as authorized herein, no person shall park a vehicle upon any such road in
violation of any such sign.
(1982 Code, § 71.05) (Ord. passed 9-25-1978; Ord. passed 5-2-1988) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 72.06 PARKING ON ONE-WAY ROADS.
   The Board is authorized to erect signs upon the left-hand side of any one-
way road to prohibit the standing or parking of vehicles, and when such signs
are in place, no person shall stand or park a vehicle upon such left-hand side
in violation of any such sign.
(1982 Code, § 71.06) (Ord. passed 9-25-1978; Ord. passed 5-2-1988) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 72.07 PARKING NEAR HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   (A)   The Board is hereby authorized to determine and designate by proper
signs and/or appropriate markings not exceeding 300 feet in length in which the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous
condition or would cause unusual delay in traffic.
   (B)   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places as
authorized herein, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any such
designated place.
(1982 Code, § 71.07) (Ord. passed 9-25-1978; Ord. passed 5-2-1988) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 72.08 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this chapter prohibiting the standing or parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
Sheriff’s officer or official traffic-control device.
(1982 Code, § 71.08) (Ord. passed 9-25-1978; Ord. passed 5-2-1988)
§ 72.09 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   Members of the Sheriff’s Department are hereby authorized to remove an
abandoned vehicle to a garage designated or maintained by the Sheriff’s
Department as authorized by I.C. 9-9-1.5.
(1982 Code, § 71.10) (Ord. passed 9-25-1978; Ord. passed 5-2-1988)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limit and other signs
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMIT AND OTHER SIGNS.
 
Street/Location             Type of Sign                 Ord. No. Date Passed
Nolandsfork Creek Bridge,
located on North Round Barn Speed limit; one-lane bridge -        3-20-1978
Road north of Tingler Road
 
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking in county-owned or county-operated parking lots
SCHEDULE I. PARKING IN COUNTY-OWNED OR COUNTY-OPERATED PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Parking lots are provided for county employees as follows:
      (1)   Parking Lot 1. Located on the west side of South Third Street at
the rear of the County Court House. Lot 1 is restricted to employees who work
in the County Court House; the lot also provides reserved parking for
designated county officials having offices in the County Court House;
      (2)   Parking Lot 2. Located on the south side of the county
administration building. Lot 2 is restricted to reserved parking for designated
offices in the county administration building. Except for spaces specifically
reserved, all other spaces in Lot 2 are reserved for the public doing business
in the county buildings. County employees are not permitted to utilize spaces
designated for public parking; and
      (3)   Parking Lot 3. Located west of the municipal building parking lot
on the west side of the Richmond municipal building and east of North Third
Street north of East Main Street. Lot 3 is restricted to county employees and
Wayne Township employees who work in county buildings. In addition, employees
of organizations who have active lease agreements with the county for office
space in the county administration building also have parking privileges in Lot
3.
   (B)   Parking in county-owned or county-operated parking lots shall be
controlled by a decal system administered by the Superintendent of Building and
Grounds. Decals are issued to all eligible personnel as follows:
      (1)   Reserved parking: red on white;
      (2)   Employee parking: Lots 1 and 3, black on yellow;
      (3)   Employee parking: Lots 2 and 3, blue on white; and
      (4)   Employee parking: Lot 3, green on yellow.
   (C)   Parking decals must be prominently displayed in the lower right of the
rear window of employees automobiles.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners shall identify and designate those spaces
restricted for reserved parking. County employees may not park in reserved
spaces unless specifically authorized.
   (E)   The Superintendent of Building and Grounds is authorized to enforce
the terms of this schedule and to effect the removal of any vehicle which is
parked in any county parking lot in violation of this schedule. Illegally
parked vehicles will be towed. All costs for towing vehicles parked in
violation of this schedule will be at the expense of the owner or operator of
the illegally parked vehicle.
(1982 Code, § 71.09) (Ord. passed 9-25-1978; Ord. passed 5-2-1988) Penalty, see
§
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Enforcement
   
90.03   Animals at large
   
90.04   Impoundment
   
90.05   Redemption of impounded dogs
   
90.06   Rabies control
   
90.07   Dogs causing unreasonable noise
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the Board of Commissioners of the
county for the purpose of impounding and caring for dogs found at large in
violaton of this chapter.
   ANIMAL WARDEN. The person appointed by the Sheriff of the county shall be
sworn in as a special deputy and shall have the power of arrest as necessary in
order to effectuate his or her responsibility and the enforcement of this
chapter.
   AT LARGE. Any dog shall be deemed to be AT LARGE when it is off the property
of its owner and not under control of a competent person while on a leash.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons or corporation owning, keeping or
harboring a dog(s).
   SHERIFF. The Sheriff of Wayne County, State of Indiana, or his or her duly
authorized representative.
(1982 Code, § 90.01) (Ord. passed 8-7-1972; Ord. passed 1-8-1990)
§ 90.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the Sheriff of the
county, or his or her duly authorized representative.
(1982 Code, § 90.02) (Ord. passed 8-7-1972; Ord. passed 1-8-1990)
§ 90.03 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   No person shall permit his or her dog to be at large within the county.
(1982 Code, § 90.03) (Ord. passed 8-7-1972; Ord. passed 1-8-1990) Penalty, see
§
90.99
§ 90.04 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Dogs found at large shall be taken up by the Sheriff and impounded in
the Animal Welfare Shelter for a period of not less than five days and may,
thereafter, be disposed of in a humane manner if not claimed by their owners.
Dogs not claimed by their owners before the expiration of five days shall
become the property of the Animal Welfare Shelter and be disposed of at its
discretion.
   (B)   When dogs are found running at large, and their ownership is known to
the Sheriff, such dogs need not be impounded, but said authority may, at its
discretion, issue a warning notice to the owner or cite the owners of such dogs
to appear in court to answer to charges of violations of this chapter.
(1982 Code, § 90.04) (Ord. passed 8-7-1972; Ord. passed 1-8-1990)
§ 90.05 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS.
   (A)   The owner shall be entitled to resume possession of any impounded dog
upon compliance with existing state laws and regulation and the payment of all
costs and charges incurred by the Animal Welfare Shelter for the impounding,
notice and keeping of such dogs. A charge of $2 shall be made for impounding
the dog, a charge of $2 for giving notice and a charge of $2 per day shall be
made for keeping the dog. All fees and moneys collected as set forth in this
chapter are to be retained by the Animal Welfare Shelter.
   (B)   Any dog impounded under the provisions of this chapter and not
reclaimed by its owner within five days may be disposed of in accordance with
the laws and regulations of the state or placed in the custody of some person
deemed to be a responsible and suitable owner or who will agree to comply with
the provisions of this chapter; provided, if the dog is one whose custody is
determined by state law, such law will be complied with.
(1982 Code, § 90.05) (Ord. passed 8-7-1972; Ord. passed 1-8-1990)
§ 90.06 RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   (1)   Any impounded dog which has bitten a person shall be securely
quarantined at the direction of the County Health Department for a period of
ten days and shall not be released from such quarantine, except by permission
of the County Health Department.
      (2)   At the discretion of the County Health Department, such quarantine
may be at the owner’s residence or, at the owner’s option and expense, at the
Animal Welfare Shelter or in a veterinary hospital of his or her choice.
   (B)   Any impounded dog which is suspected of being rabid or appears to be
suffering from a disease shall not be released to the owner without the consent
of a licensed veterinarian.
   (C)   If any animal which has bitten a person dies during the ten-day
quarantine, the County Health Department shall be notified immediately.
(1982 Code, § 90.06) (Ord. passed 8-7-1972; Ord. passed 1-8-1990)
§ 90.07 DOGS CAUSING UNREASONABLE NOISE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to promote quality of life in
the unincorporated areas of the county.
   (B)   Definitions. If a word or phrase has a meaning in this section clearly
different than the definitions provided in this section, the word or phrase
shall be taken in its plain, ordinary and usual sense. A word or phrase
importing the singular number only may be also applied to the plural of persons
and things. A word or phrase importing the masculine gender only may be
extended to the feminine gender. The word “shall” is always mandatory. For the
purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UNREASONABLE NOISE. Frequent or habitual howling, yelping, barking,
screeching, other vocalization or other noise which shall cause serious
annoyance or disturbance to a reasonable person.
   (C)   Prohibited conduct. It shall be unlawful for a person to own or keep
any dog which emits unreasonable noise in the unincorporated area of the
county.
   (D)   Enforcement.
      (1)   No violation of this section shall occur unless two independent
complaints are lodged. A law enforcement officer who witnesses a dog emitting
unreasonable noise may lodge a complaint and his or her complaint may count as
one of the two independent complaints.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer shall issue at least one warning to the
person who owns or keeps a dog alleged to be emitting unreasonable noise to
restrain the dog from emitting further unreasonable noise prior to issuing a
citation for violation of this section to the person who owns or keeps the dog.
Such warning is intended to be consistent with the warning required to be given
to one alleged to have committed disorderly conduct, unreasonable noise, at
I.C. 35-45-1-3(2).
      (3)   A person who is found guilty of violating this section shall be
subject to the maximum penalty set forth in §
90.99 of this chapter.
      (4)   A law enforcement officer may impound the dog or dogs, as set forth
in §
90.04 of this chapter, of a person who has been cited three or more times for
violating this section. The person may redeem his or her dog or dogs as
provided in §
90.05 of this chapter.
   (E)   Kennels not subject. Kennels are specifically exempted from this
section as they are regulated by
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2005-010, passed 9-21-2005) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.03 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $10, nor
more than $50, for each offense.
(1982 Code, § 90.99) (Ord. passed 8-7-1972; Ord. passed 1-8-1990)
CHAPTER 91: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Section
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Application
   
91.03   Definitions
   
91.04   Federal regulations
   
91.05   Transportation in unincorporated areas
   
91.06   Director’s annual report
   
91.07   Certificate of hazardous waste transport
   
91.08   Fees for certificates
   
91.09   Forty-eight-hour limitation
   
91.10   Additional regulations
   
91.11   Reporting incidents
   
91.12   Carrier’s financial responsibilities
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to protect the public
health, safety and welfare from the potential hazards of fire, explosion and
exposure to toxic substances that accompany a hazardous materials incident by
regulating the transportation of hazardous materials in and through the
unincorporated areas of the county.
   (B)   It is also intended that the chapter will enable funds to be generated
to fund emergency response preparedness.
(1982 Code, § 96.01) (Ord. passed 6-11-1990)
§ 91.02 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to all hazardous materials, as defined herein,
which are transported in and through the unincorporated county, and shall be in
addition to all other sections of this code, and all other provisions of county
ordinances regarding hazardous substances or materials, or any rules or
regulations of other county departments, boards of commissions pertaining
thereto.
(1982 Code, § 96.02) (Ord. passed 6-11-1990)
§ 91.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CARRIER.
      (1)   Any person that holds himself or herself out to the general public
to engage in the transportation by motor vehicle of property, for compensation,
whether over regular or irregular routes; or
      (2)   Any person who engages in transportation by motor vehicle of
property, for compensation under contract with one person or a limited number
of persons either:
         (a)   For the furnishing of transportation services through the
dedication of motor vehicles for
a continuing period of time to the exclusive use of each person served; or
         (b)   For the furnishing of transportation services designed to meet
the distinct need of each individual customer.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL.
      (1)   “Hazardous substance”, as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 171.8;
      (2)   “Low specific activity material”, as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 173.403
(n); or
      (3)   “Radioactive material”, as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 173.403(y).
   TRANSPORTATION. Transportation of hazardous materials or handling and
storage for less than 48 hours exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays
whether in commerce or not in commerce.
(1982 Code, § 96.03) (Ord. passed 6-11-1990)
§ 91.04 FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following documents shall be kept on file in the office of the
County Emergency Management Agency:
      (1)   Title 49 C.F.R. parts 171 through 199, as from time to time
amended, governing the transportation of hazardous materials in commerce are
hereby adopted by the county to ensure the application of those requirements to
transportation in and through unincorporated towns and other unincorporated
areas of the county; and
      (2)   Title 10 C.F.R. part 71, of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, as
from time to time amended, is hereby adopted.
   (B)   When any provision of this chapter is found to be inconsistent with
the regulations adopted above, the provision which provides the greater level
of protection for the health, safety and welfare of the public shall prevail.
(1982 Code, § 96.04) (Ord. passed 6-11-1990)
§ 91.05 TRANSPORTATION IN UNINCORPORATED AREAS.
   Transportation within the unincorporated towns or other unincorporated areas
of the county shall be subject to the regulations set forth herein.
(1982 Code, § 96.05) (Ord. passed 6-11-1990)
§ 91.06 DIRECTOR’S ANNUAL REPORT.
   The County Director of Emergency Management (“Director”) is authorized and
directed to collect information from the state, Federal Government and other
sources on the types, volumes, routes, risks, locations of storage and transfer
between mode and conditions of transport of hazardous materials and to report
annually to the Board of Commissioners on the transportation of hazardous
materials and the adequacy of emergency response capabilities in case of
accident.
(1982 Code, § 96.06) (Ord. passed 6-11-1990)
§ 91.07 CERTIFICATE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TRANSPORT.
   (A)   (1)   No carrier may transport hazardous materials upon the highways,
streets and roads within the unincorporated towns and other unincorporated
areas of the county unless the carrier first obtains a certificate from the
Director allowing transportation of such hazardous materials.
      (2)   The Director shall issue a certificate of hazardous waste transport
to a carrier if:
         (a)   Certificates or permits issued by the Interstate Commerce
Commission and the Public Service Commission for the transportation of
hazardous materials are submitted to the Director; or
         (b)   The carrier demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Director
that it complies and will continue to comply with all laws and regulations of
the state and the Federal Government respecting the handling and transport of
hazardous materials and the safety of drivers and vehicles.
   (B)   All applications shall be acted on within 30 days of submission to the
Director.
   (C)   (1)   Certificates shall be granted for a period of one year and may
be renewed upon application unless revoked for cause after a hearing before the
Board of County Commissioners.
      (2)   Revocation for cause or non- renewal may occur where a certificate
holder or applicant fails to comply with any of the requirements of this
chapter.
   (D)   Certificates shall be revocable and non-transferable.
(1982 Code, § 96.07) (Ord. passed 6-11-1990)
§ 91.08 FEES FOR CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   (1)   Upon the final approval by the Director of an application for a
certificate of hazardous materials transport, the applicant shall pay a
reasonable service charge according to a schedule to be adopted by the Board of
County Commissioners after review of one year’s operation.
      (2)   Until the service charge is established by the Board of County
Commissioners, there will not be a charge for a certificate.
   (B)   The service charge shall reflect the costs of emergency response
preparation and the costs of issuing the certificate.
   (C)   After a service charge has been established and upon receipt of such a
service charge, the Director shall issue a certificate of hazardous materials
transport and the service charge shall be deposited in the Hazardous Materials
Transport Emergency Preparedness Fund. Such funds shall be disbursed for
purposes related to regulation of hazardous materials transportation,
including, but not limited to, emergency response operations, administrative
activities related to the program and other provisions of this chapter.
(1982 Code, § 96.08) (Ord. passed 6-11-1990)
§ 91.09 FORTY-EIGHT-HOUR LIMITATION.
   A carrier transporting hazardous materials shall require the consignees of
each shipment of hazardous materials to remove the shipment from the carrier’s
property within 48 hours (exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) after
notice of arrival has been sent or given. If not so removed, the carrier shall
immediately notify the Director.
(1982 Code, § 96.09) (Ord. passed 6-11-1990) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   The following additional regulations apply to highway transportation within
the county of the hazardous materials specified in §
91.03 of this chapter.
   (A)   Traffic violations by carriers transporting hazardous materials shall
be treated as violations of those regulations and shall be subject to the
penalties of §
91.99 of this chapter.
   (B)   Those portions of public highways and streets within the
unincorporated towns of Abington, Bethel, Chester, Dalton, Franklin,
Jacksonburg, Middleboro, Webster and Williamsburg are conclusively presumed to
be routes which go through or near heavily populated areas; therefore, the use
of said routes, except major thoroughfares as defined in division (C) below for
the transportation of hazardous materials as defined in §
91.03 of this chapter is prohibited where there is neither a point or origin,
destination (delivery point), nor handling within those unincorporated towns.
   (C)   For the purposes of this chapter, the following are considered to be
major thoroughfares:
      (1)   Alternative routes designated by the Board of Directors of the
State Department of Transportation;
      (2)   In the absence of designated alternative routes, the preferred
routes designated in the regulations of the United States Department of
Transportation; and
      (3)   In the absence of designated alternative or preferred routes,
routes selected by the carrier applying the criteria set forth in 49 C.F.R. §
177.825.
   (D)   Headlights shall be illuminated at all times.
(1982 Code, § 96.10) (Ord. passed 6-11-1990) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 REPORTING INCIDENTS.
   Incidents involving hazardous materials occurring within the unincorporated
areas of the county and required to be reported by 49 C.F.R. § 171.15 shall be
reported immediately by the carrier to the County Emergency Management Agency.
(1982 Code, § 96.11) (Ord. passed 6-11-1990)
§ 91.12 CARRIER’S FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
   Any carrier transporting hazardous materials shall be liable to the county
for the payment of all costs and expenses of the agency or other involving the
use of employees, apparatus and materials in the control, neutralization or
clean-up of an incident described in 49 C.F.R. §§ 171.15 and 171.16, requiring
the response of the agency or others to control said incident.
(1982 Code, § 96.12) (Ord. passed 6-11-1990)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any carrier who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to
have committed an infraction and may be fined in an amount not to exceed
$2,500. Each violation shall be treated separately. When a violation is a
continuing one, each day of the violation constitutes a separate offense.
(1982 Code, § 96.13) (Ord. passed 6-11-1990)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Policy statement
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful practice
   
92.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
92.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
92.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
92.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
92.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
92.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
92.10   Exemptions
   
92.11   Administrative enforcement
§ 92.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the County to provide in a manner consistent with
applicable constitutional limitations, fair housing opportunities throughout
the county as provided for under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as
amended, the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended,
and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et. seq.
(1982 Code, § 123.01) (Ord. passed 9-21-1998; Ord. 2021-006, passed 3-3-2021)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur (see I.C. 22-9.5-2-2).
   COMMISSION. Refers to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission or to a local
agency created pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-4-1 (see I.C. 22-9.5-2-3).
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6 (I.C. 22-9.5-2-4).
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
92.04 through
92.08 or under I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residency by one or
more families, or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a
residency by one or more families (see I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of familial status
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual with the status of such family being
further defined in this section. (see I.C. 22-9.5-2-9).
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person's major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 I.A.C. 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include the current illegal use of, or
addiction to, a controlled substance as defined in U.S.C. Title 21, § 802, 910
I.A.C. 2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely
because that individual is a transvestite (see 910 I.A.C. 2-3-2(14)).
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock
companies, trusts, non- incorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases
under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers, and fiduciaries (see I.C. 22-9.5-2-11).
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, or to otherwise grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
(1982 Code, § 123.02) (Ord. passed 9-21-1998; Ord. 2021-006, passed 3-3-2021)
§ 92.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
92.09, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
92.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) and I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
92.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent, or salesperson; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
92.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she shall have, within the preceding 12 months, participated
as principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (2)   He or she shall have, within the preceding 12 months, participated
as agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2021-006, passed 3-3-2021)
§ 92.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
92.03 and except as exempted by division (B) and §
92.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based
on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or
an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the te1ms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   (1)   For purposes of this section, discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets , thermostats, and
other environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.    Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (2)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (H)(1)(c)3.c.
      (3)   Nothing in this division requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2021-006, passed 3-3-2021)
§ 92.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term "residential real estate-related
transaction" means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   A transaction secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2021-006, passed 3-3-2021)
§ 92.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple- listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national
origin.
(Ord. 2021-006, passed 3-3-2021)
§ 92.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of any right granted or protected by §§
92.04 through
92.06.
(Ord. 2021-006, passed 3-3-2021)
§ 92.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings.
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A),
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A), above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate may be fined according to
local, state and/or federal law.
(Ord. 2021-006, passed 3-3-2021)
§ 92.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of
"family" is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2021-006, passed 3-3-2021)
§ 92.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and/or (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a private club not in fact open
to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes,
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this division, "housing for
older persons" means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the Commission
determines is specifically designed and operated to assist elderly persons (as
defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2021-006, passed 3-3-2021)
§ 92.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the Board.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, county, because of
lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer enforcement
proceedings and possible. civil actions under this chapter, herein elects to
refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this chapter by
complainants to the Commission for administrative enforcement actions pursuant
to I.C. 22-9.5-6, et seq., and the Board shall refer all said complaints to the
Commission as provided for under division (A) of this section to said
Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as
provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6, et seq.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of county shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Board and with the Commission to further such
purposes.
   (D)   The Board, or the Board's designee, shall provide information on
remedies available to any aggrieved person or complainant requesting such
information.
(1982 Code, § 123.03) (Ord. passed 9-21-1998; Ord. 2021-006, passed 3-3-2021)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Indiana Gateway Industrial Park; trespassing
§ 93.01 INDIANA GATEWAY INDUSTRIAL PARK; TRESPASSING.
   (A)   Only persons with legitimate business purposes with respect to the
interests of county or any of the commercial enterprises owning or otherwise
occupying a part of the industrial park shall be permitted on the areas
comprising the property; such persons to include employees or representatives
of utilities and other service providers to the Industrial Park.
   (B)   Absolutely no fishing, swimming, wading or other such recreational
activities shall be permitted on, in or around the portions of the property
comprising the detention basin ponds.
   (C)   Absolutely no hiking, jogging, walking or other such activities shall
be permitted on the property.
   (D)   No bicycle, ATV, motorcycle, automobile or other form of vehicular
traffic shall be permitted on any part of the property that is not a dedicated
roadway. Access to those areas that are dedicated roadways shall be limited to
those persons identified in division (A) above and shall be in accordance with
all applicable laws and regulations related to such trafficking.
   (E)   The Board of Commissioners shall direct the County Buildings and
Grounds staff, or such other county employees as is necessary, to duly post
appropriate signage on and around the property advising the public of the
foregoing restrictions.
(Res. 2009-006, passed 8-26-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   FOOD AND/OR BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
      
111.   FOOD MARKETS
CHAPTER 110: FOOD AND/OR BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Plan review
   
110.03   Permits
   
110.04   Permit fees
   
110.05   Inspection
   
110.06   Compliance and enforcement
   
110.07   Appeals
   
110.08   Conflict of interest
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT (as defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5). An
operator occupied residence that:
      (1)   Provides sleeping accommodations to the public for a fee;
      (2)   Has no more than 14 guest rooms;
      (3)   Provides breakfast to its guests as part of the fee; and
      (4)   Provides sleeping accommodations for no more than 30 consecutive
days to a particular guest.
   COMMISSARY (defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-24-16).
      (1)   A registered catering establishment, restaurant or any retail food
establishment in which food, food containers, or food supplies are:
         (a)   Kept;
         (b)   Handled;
         (c)   Prepared;
         (d)   Packaged; or
         (e)   Stored;
      (2)   From which meals are catered and mobile retail food establishments
or pushcarts are served. The Wayne County Health Department reserves the right
to deny the use of a commissary for any reason including the commissary does
not have adequate accommodation for safe food handling.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST (derived from 68 I.A.C. 9-1-1(b)(2)). A situation in
which the private financial interest of Wayne County Health Official, Wayne
County Health Official's spouse, ex-spouse, siblings, in-laws, children and/or
unemancipated child, may influence the Wayne County Health Official's judgement
in the performance of a public duty.
   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-137).
      (1)   For purposes of I.C. 16-42-5 and I.C. 16-42-5.2, means any
building, room, basement, vehicle of transportation, cellar, or open or
enclosed area occupied or used for handling food. The term does not include the
following:
         (a)   A dwelling where food is prepared on the premises by the
occupants, free of charge, for their consumption or for consumption by their
guests.
         (b)   A gathering of individuals at a venue of an organization that is
organized for educational purposes in a nonpublic educational setting or for
religious purposes, if:
            1.   The individuals separately or jointly provide or prepare, free
of charge, and consume their own food or that of others attending the
gathering;
            2.   The gathering is for a purpose of the organization;
            3.   Gatherings for the purpose of the organization include
funerals, wedding receptions, christenings, bar or bat mitzvahs, baptisms,
communions, and other events or celebrations sponsored by the organization.
         (c)   A vehicle used to transport food solely for distribution to the
needy, either free of charge or for a nominal donation.
         (d)   A private gathering of individuals who separately or jointly
provide or prepare and consume their own food or that of others attending the
gathering, regardless of whether the gathering is held on public or private
property.
         (e)   Except for food prepared by a for-profit entity, a venue of the
sale of food prepared for the organization:
            1.   That is organized for:
               a.    Religious purposes; or
               b.    Educational purposes in a nonpublic educational setting;
            2.   That is exempt from taxation under § 501 of the Internal
Revenue Code; and
            3.   That offers the food for sale to the final consumer at an
event held for the benefit of the organization; unless the food is being
provided in a restaurant or a cafeteria with an extensive menu of prepared
foods.
         (f)   Except for food prepared by a for-profit entity, an Indiana
nonprofit organization that:
            1.   Is organized for civic, fraternal, veterans, or charitable
purposes;
            2.   Is exempt from taxation under § 501 of the Internal Revenue
Code; and
            3.   Offers food for sale to the final consumer at an event held
for the benefit of the organization; if the events conducted by the
organization take place for not more than 15 days in a calendar year.
         (g)   An individual vendor of a farmers' market or roadside stand if
the individual meets the requirements of I.C. 16-42-5-29.
      (2)   This definition also includes a retail food establishment as
defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-24; however, it does not include a bed and breakfast
establishment.
   FOOD SERVICE EVENT. Any event that is open to the public that has more than
one food vendors, mobile food establishments or other food services providers.
   HAZARD ANALYSIS CRITICAL CONTROL POINT (HACCP) PLAN (as defined in 410
I.A.C. 7-24). A written document that delineates the formal procedures for
following the Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point principles developed by
the National Advisory Committee on Microbiological Criteria for Foods.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The person, appointed as specified in I.C. 16-20-2-16, or
his/her duly authorized representative, as specified in I.C. 16-20-1-14, who
may conduct inspections and make a final decision on an enforcement action.
   HEALTH OFFICIAL. Any Official of Wayne County Health Department, Wayne
County Indiana.
   HEARING OFFICER. An individual or panel of individuals acting in the
capacity of a Hearing Officer in an appeals process. The Hearing Officer is not
the Health Officer or any other employee of the Wayne County Health Department.
(Examples of Hearing Officer could be the Wayne County Health Board, a
subcommittee of the Wayne County Health Board, a subcommittee of health
professionals from the community or other non-bias third party appointed by the
Health Board).
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. A significant threat or danger to health that is
considered to exist when there is evidence sufficient to show that a product,
practice, circumstance, or event creates a situation that requires immediate
correction or cessation of operation to prevent injury or illness based on the
number of potential injuries and illnesses and the nature, severity and
duration of the anticipated injury or illness [e.g., sewage backing up in a
food preparation area or contamination of food products with toxic materials].
   INSPECTION REPORT. The document prepared by the Wayne County Health
Department that is completed as the result of the inspection and provided to
the operator.
   OPERATOR. The person who has a primary oversight responsibility for
operation of the establishment through ownership, or lease or contractual
agreement, and who is responsible for the storage, preparation, display,
transportation or serving of food to the public.
   ORDER (derived from I.C. 4-21.5-1-9). A Wayne County Health Department
action of particular applicability that determines the legal rights, duties,
privileges, immunities, or other legal interests of one or more specific
persons. The term includes a permit.
   PERMIT. The document issued by the Wayne County Health Department that
authorizes a person to operate a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment, which includes, mobile food units and temporary food vendors.
   PERSON. An association; a corporation; an individual; partnership; or other
legal entity, government, or governmental subdivision or agency.
   WAYNE COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The local health department in Wayne County
or authorized representative having jurisdiction over a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment.
(Ord. 2021-011, passed 9-8-2021)
§ 110.02 PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   The owner or other authorized agent of an existing or proposed bed and
breakfast establishment and/or food establishment shall submit to the Wayne
County Health Department properly prepared plans and specifications for review
and approval before:
      (1)   The construction of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing structure for use as a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or food establishment; or
      (3)   The remodeling of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment or a change of type of bed and breakfast establishment and/or
food establishment or food operation if the Wayne County Health Department
determines that plans and specifications are necessary to ensure compliance
with this section.
   (B)   The plans and specifications for a bed and breakfast establishment
and/or food establishment shall include, the type of operation, type of food
preparation (as specified in Appendix A of the published version of 410 I.A.C.
7-24), and the menu.
   (C)   The plans and specifications shall be deemed satisfactory and approved
by the Wayne County Health Department before a permit can be issued.
   (D)   A pre-operational inspection shows that the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment is built or remodeled in accordance
with the approved plans and specifications and that the establishment is in
compliance with this chapter, 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5.
(Ord. 2021-011, passed 9-8-2021)
§ 110.03 PERMITS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a person to operate any bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment in Wayne County, without first
obtaining a valid permit from the Health Officer. The valid permit must be
posted in a conspicuous location in the bed and breakfast establishment and/or
food establishment.
      (2)   Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements of 410
I.A.C. 7-15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24 will be entitled to obtain and keep a
permit.
      (3)   A separate permit shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment, and/or food establishment operated or to be operated by any
person. This applies to multiple establishments located within the same
structure, operating with different names, menus, and/or management.
      (4)   A permit issued under this chapter is not transferable.
      (5)   A bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment
permitted by the Wayne County Health Department shall be considered registered
as required in I.C. 16-42-1-6.
   (B)   Permit period.
      (1)   A permit for a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment shall be issued for a term beginning January 1, and/or before
commencement of operation, and expiring December 31, of the same year and shall
be applied for by the person and/or operator annually, by the first business
day in February.
      (2)   A permit for a temporary food establishment shall be for the term
of one continuous operation, not to exceed 14 continuous days. Temporary food
establishments shall apply for their permit at least seven days in advance of
their event. No permit will be issued for establishments failing to comply with
this time frame.
   (C)   Permit content. Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain;
      (1)   The name and address of the person and/or owner to whom the permit
is granted;
      (2)   The location of the establishment for which the permit is issued;
      (3)   The issuance and expiration date(s); and
      (4)   Other such pertinent data as may be required by the Wayne County
Health Officer.
   (D)   Application. A person desiring to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment shall submit to the Wayne County Health
Department a written application for a permit on a form provided by the Wayne
Health Department.
   (E)   Content of the application. The application shall include:
      (1)   The name, mailing address, email address, telephone number, and
original signature of the person and/or operator applying for the permit and
the name, mailing address, and location of the bed and breakfast establishment
and/or food establishment;
      (2)   Information specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment
and/or food establishment is owned by an association, corporation, individual,
partnership, or other legal entity;
      (3)   A statement specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment
and/or food establishment:
         (a)   If not permanent, is mobile and/or temporary; and
         (b)   If the operation includes one or more of the following:
            1.   Prepares, offers for sale, or serves potentially hazardous
food:
               a.   Only to order upon a consumer's request;
               b.   In advance in quantities based on projected consumer demand
and discards food that is not sold or served at an approved frequency; or
               c.   Using time, rather than temperature, as the public health
control as specified under 410 I.A.C. 7-24.
               d.    Prepares acidified foods as defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-21-3.
            2.   Prepares potentially hazardous food in advance using a food
preparation method that involves two or more steps which may include combining
potentially hazardous ingredients; cooking; cooling; reheating; hot or cold
holding; freezing; or thawing;
            3.   Prepares food as specified under item (E)(3)(b)2. of this
section for delivery to and consumption at a location off the premises of the
bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establislm1ent where it is
prepared;
            4.   Prepares food as specified under division (E)(3)(b)2. of this
section for service to a highly susceptible population, as defined in 410
I.A.C. 7-24;
            5.   Prepares only food that is not potentially hazardous; or
            6.   Does not prepare, but offers for sale only prepackaged food
that is not potentially hazardous.
      (4)   The name, title, address, and telephone number of the operator
directly responsible for the bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment.
      (5)   The name, title, address, and telephone number of the person who
functions as the immediate supervisor of the person specified under division
(E)(4) of this section, such as the zone, district, or regional supervisor;
      (6)   The names, titles, and addresses of:
         (a)   The persons comprising the legal ownership as specified under
division (E)(2) of this section including the owners and operators;
         (b)   The local resident agent if one is required based on the type of
legal ownership.
      (7)   A statement signed by the applicant that:
         (a)   Attests to the accuracy of the information provided in the
application; and
         (b)   Affirms that the applicant will:
            1.   Comply with this chapter; and
            2.   Allow the Wayne County Health Department access to the bed and
breakfast establishment and/or food establishment and records as specified in
410 I.A.C. 7-15.5 and 410 I.A.C. 7-24;
      (8)   Other information required by the Wayne County Health Department.
   (F)   Qualification. To qualify for a permit, an applicant must:
      (1)   Be an owner and/or operator of the bed and breakfast establishment
and/or food establishment;
      (2)   Comply with the requirements of this chapter;
      (3)   Agree to allow access to the bed and breakfast establishment and/or
food establishment and provide required information; and
      (4)   Pay the applicable permit fees at the time the application is
submitted.
   (G)   Change of ownership. The Wayne County Health Department may renew a
permit for an existing bed and breakfast establishment, and/or food
establishment or may issue a permit to a new owner of an existing bed and
breakfast establishment and/or food establishment after a properly completed
application is submitted, reviewed, and approved, the fees are paid, and an
inspection shows that the establishment is in compliance with this chapter.
   (H)   Responsibilities of the operator. Upon acceptance of the permit issued
by the Wayne County Health Department, the operator, in order to retain the
permit shall:
      (1)   Comply with the provisions of this chapter and all laws and rules
adopted by reference herein and the conditions of any variances granted by the
Indiana Department of Health;
      (2)   Immediately discontinue affected operations and notify the Wayne
County Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist;
      (3)   Allow representatives of the Wayne County Health Department access
to the bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment at all
reasonable times;
      (4)   Comply with directives of the Wayne County Health Department
including time frames for corrective actions specified in inspection reports,
notices, orders, warnings, and other directives issued by the Wayne County
Health Department in regard to the operator's bed and breakfast establishment
and/or food establishment or in response to community emergencies;
      (5)   Accept notices issued and served by the Wayne County Health
Department;
      (6)   Be subject to the administrative, civil, injunctive, and criminal
remedies authorized in law for failure to comply with this ordinance or a
directive of the Wayne County Health Department; and
      (7)   Post the permit in a location in the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment that is conspicuous to consumers.
(Ord. 2021-011, passed 9-8-2021)
§ 110.04 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment in Wayne County, who has not paid the
permit fee required to be paid for the operation of such establishment.
   (B)   The fee shall be paid for a term beginning January 1, and/or before
commencement of operation and expiring December 31, of the same year and the
permit shall be applied for by the person and/or operator annually, by the
first business day in February.
   (C)   Permit fees for the issuance of a permit under this chapter to a bed
and breakfast establishment and/or a food establishment shall be set by the
Wayne County Health Department, as provided by the Statutes of the State of
Indiana (see I.C. 16-20-1-27).
   (D)   A receipt for the payment of such fee shall be provided by the Wayne
County Health Department.
   (E)   The payment of such fees shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment operated or to be operated by any
person.
   (F)   Exemption from permit fees. An organization that is exempt under I.C.
16-18-3-137 will not be subject to permit fees.
   (G)   Late fees.
      (1)   A late fee for failure to pay the permit fee prior to the operation
of the bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment or the late
fee for failure to renew a permit after the expiration of the permit to operate
bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment shall be assessed,
two times the original permit fee, in addition to the original permit fee, as
set by the Wayne County Health Board.
      (2)   The payment of fees under this ordinance is not transferable or
refundable.
   (H)   Event registration. Any food service event must register with the
Wayne County Health Department at least 30 days prior to the beginning of the
event. The food service event application will be provided by the Wayne County
Health Department. Fees for registering a food service event are included in
the Wayne County Health Department Fee Ordinance.
(Ord. 2021-011, passed 9-8-2021)
§ 110.05 INSPECTION.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The Wayne County Health Department shall inspect a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or food establishment at least once every six
months, unless a system of risk-based inspections is utilized as stated below.
The Wayne County Health Department may modify the interval between inspections
beyond six months if:
         (a)   The bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment is
fully operating under an approved and validated Hazard Analysis Critical
Control Point (HACCP) plan(s);
         (b)   The bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment is
assigned a less frequent inspection frequency based on a written RISK-based
inspection schedule that is being uniformly applied throughout the jurisdiction
and at least once every six months the establishment is contacted by telephone
or other means by the regulatory authority to ensure that the establishment
manager and the nature of food operation are not changed; or
         (c)   The establishment's operation involves only coffee service and
other unpackaged or prepackaged that is not potentially hazardous (time/
temperature control for safely food) such as carbonated beverages and snack
food such as chips, nuts, popcorn, and pretzels. (Information taken from the
2009 FDA Model Food Code Section 8-401.10 Establishing Inspection Intervals).
      (2)   The Wayne County Health Department should contact the operator to
determine that the nature of the food operation has not changed.
   (B)   Temporary food establishment. The Wayne County Health Department shall
periodically inspect throughout its permit period a temporary food
establishment that prepares, sells, or serves unpackaged potentially hazardous
food and may inspect a temporary food establishment that prepares, sells or
serves unpackaged, nonpotentially hazardous food that:
      (1)   Has improvised rather than permanent facilities or equipment for
accomplishing functions such as handwashing, food preparation and protection,
food temperature control, ware washing, providing drinking water, waste
retention and disposal, and insect and rodent control; or
      (2)   Has food employees that have not demonstrated knowledge, as per 410
I.A.C. 7-24, of food operations.
   (C)   Performance and risk based inspections. Within the parameters
specified in the above inspection section of this chapter, the Wayne County
Health Department shall prioritize, and conduct more frequent inspections based
upon its assessment of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment's history of compliance with this ordinance and the bed and
breakfast establishment and/or food establishment's potential as a vector of
foodborne illness by evaluating:
      (1)   Past performance, for violations of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410 I.A.C.
7-24 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22 and/or HACCP plan requirements that are critical or
non-critical;
      (2)   Past performance, for numerous or repeat violations of 410 I.A.C.
7-15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or HACCP plan requirements that are non-
critical;
      (3)   Past performance, for complaints investigated and found to be
valid;
      (4)   The hazards associated with the particular foods that are prepared,
stored, or served;
      (5)   The type of operation including the methods and extent of food
storage, preparation, and service;
      (6)   The number of people served; and
      (7)   Whether the population served is a highly susceptible population as
defined by Indiana law.
   (D)   Access allowed at reasonable times after due notice. After the Wayne
County Health Department presents official credentials and provides notice of
the purpose of and the intent to conduct an inspection, the Operator shall
allow the Wayne County Health Department to determine if the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment, is in compliance with this chapter by
allowing access to the establishment, allowing inspection, and providing
information and records specified in this chapter. The Wayne County Health
Department is entitled the information and records according to I.C. 16-42-1-13
and I.C. 16-42-5-23, during the bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment's hours of operation and other reasonable times.
      (1)   Access is a condition of the acceptance and retention of a food
establishment permit to operate.
      (2)   If access is denied, an order issued by the appropriate authority
allowing access may be obtained according to law (see I.C. 16-20-1-26).
   (E)   Inspection reports. At the conclusion of the inspection, the Wayne
County Health Department shall provide a copy of the completed inspection
report and the notice to correct violations to the operator or to the person-
in-charge, as required under I.C. 16-20-8. The operator or person in charge
shall post the most recent routine inspection report in a location visible to
the public adjacent to the front public entrance.
   (F)   Timely correction of critical violations. Except as specified in the
next division, an operator shall at the time of inspection correct a critical
violation of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22 and
implement corrective actions for a HACCP plan provision that is not in
compliance with its critical limit.
      (1)   Considering the nature of the potential hazard involved and the
complexity of the corrective action needed, the Wayne County Health Department
may agree to or specify a longer time frame after the inspection, for the
operator to correct critical code violations or HACCP plan deviations.
      (2)   After receiving notification that the operator has corrected a
critical violation or HACCP plan deviation, or at the end of the specified
period of time, the Wayne County Health Department shall verify correction of
the violation, document the information on an inspection report, and enter the
report in the Wayne County Health Department's records.
   (G)   Refusal to sign acknowledgment. Refusal to sign an acknowledgment of
receipt will not affect the operator's obligation to correct the violations
noted in the inspection report within the time frames specified.
      (1)   A refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt is noted in the
inspection report and conveyed to the Wayne County Health Department historical
record for the bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment.
      (2)   The operator is not necessarily in agreement with the findings of
the Wayne County Health Department inspection by acknowledgment of receipt.
   (H)   Public information. Except as specified in Section 194 (Trade Secrets)
of 410 I.A.C. 7-24, the Wayne County Health Department shall treat the
inspection report as a public document and shall make it available for
disclosure to a person who requests it as provided in law (see I.C. 16-20-8).
(Ord. 2021-011, passed 9-8-2021)
§ 110.06 COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Application denial. If an application for a plan review and/or permit
to operate a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment is
denied, the Wayne County Health Department shall provide the applicant with a
notice that includes:
      (1)   The specific reasons and rule citations for the application and/or
permit denial;
      (2)   The actions, if any, that the applicant must take to qualify for
the application and/or permit; and
      (3)   Advisement of the applicant's right of appeal and the process and
time frames for appeal that are provided in law.
   (B)   Permit revocation. The Wayne County Health Department may revoke a
permit to operate a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment
for a time period not to exceed 90 calendar days. If the permit has been
revoked in the past and a clear demonstration of non-compliance is demonstrated
by the permit holder then the permit may be revoked for a longer period of time
as determined by the Health Officer.
   (C)   Permit suspension. The Wayne County Health Department may suspend a
permit to operate a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment
if it determines through inspection, or examination of employee, food, records,
or other means as specified in this chapter, that an imminent health hazard
exists. A suspension shall not exceed 30 calendar days. The permit may be
suspended for a longer period of time as determined by the Health Officer.
   (D)   Ceasing operation and contacting the Wayne County Health Department.
      (1)   An operator of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment shall immediately discontinue operations and notify the Wayne
County Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist because of an
emergency such as a fire, flood, extended interruption of electrical or water
service, sewage backup, misuse of poisonous or toxic materials, onset of an
apparent foodborne illness outbreak, gross insanitary occurrence or condition,
or other circumstance that may endanger public health.
      (2)   An operator need not discontinue operations in an area of an
establishment that is unaffected by the imminent health hazard.
   (E)   Resuming operation. If a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment has discontinued operations for the reasons stated above or
otherwise according to law, the operator must obtain approval from the Wayne
County Health Department before resuming operations.
   (F)   Outstanding fees. Any outstanding fees and fines owed to the Wayne
County Health Depmiment shall be paid prior to the issuance of a permit.
   (G)   Enforcement options. The following are options available to Wayne
County Health Depmiment for consideration:
      (1)   Establish a process for the issuing of tickets based on violation
of the food establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment requirements
(see I.C. 16-42-5-28(g)). (See also § 110.07, Appeals, to ensure that due
process is followed.) The Wayne County Health Department will document and
issue violations of the Indiana Food Code on State Form 48669 (R2/2-05), Retail
Food Inspection Report. A report copy will be provided to the retail food
establishment owner/manager, and a copy will be stored at the Wayne County
Health Department. The Wayne County Health Department may set dates and times
to check compliance on documented violations.
      (2)   Conduct administrative proceeding for suspension and/or revocation
of the bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment permit in
front of the Health Officer. (See §
110.07 to ensure that due process is followed.) If a food establishment and/or
bed and breakfast has a documented violation(s) and fails to be compliant with
the Wayne County Health Department's orders, the Wayne County Health Department
has the authority to suspend or terminate the establishment's operating permit
after administrative proceedings have been held with the Health Officer and/or
Executive Director.
      (3)   The Wayne County Health Officer may issue an "Order to Abate" based
on a condition that may transmit, generate, or promote disease. Failure on the
part of the operator to comply with the order could result in the enforcement
of the order in the court of jurisdiction by the initiation of an action by the
county attorney or county prosecuting attorney (see I.C. 16-20-1-25; see also §
110.07 to ensure that due process is followed).
      (4)   If the action concerning public health is an ordinance violation,
request the county attorney or county prosecuting attorney to institute a
proceeding in the comts for the enforcement of the ordinance violation (see
I.C. 34-28-5-1).
      (5)   If the action concerning public health is a criminal offense,
request the county attorney or county prosecuting attorney to institute a
proceeding in the courts for enforcement (see I.C. 16-20-1-25(c)).
(Ord. 2021-011, passed 9-8-2021)
§ 110.07 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person(s) aggrieved by orders issued under the enforcement options
(§
110.06(G)(1) through (G)(3) shall be entitled to a review of the final order
before a Hearing Officer by filing an administrative written request therefore
with the Health Officer and/or Executive Director. The written request must be
mailed, or hand delivered to the Health Officer and/or Executive Director and
must be received within 15 days after such final order is issued.
   (B)   Upon the Health Officer and/or Executive Director's receipt of such
request, the Hearing Officer shall hear the matter again in an open hearing
after at least five working days written notice of the time, place, and nature
thereof. The time shall be measured pursuant to the rules of court of the
jurisdiction. A shorter period of time may be granted, if requested by either
party and agreed upon.
   (C)   The notice of the hearing shall be served upon the person requesting
the review by hand delivering or mailing by certified mail the notice to the
address listed on the permit application as the person's mailing address or
such other address, as the person shall designate in the letter of request to
the Health Officer and/or Executive Director.
   (D)   The Hearing Officer establishes the rules of procedure and advises the
parties prior to the start of the proceedings.
   (E)   The Hearing Officer shall make written findings of facts and shall
enter its final administrative order or determination of this matter in
writing.
   (F)   The administrative order completes the Administrative Appeals
procedure.
(Ord. 2021-011, passed 9-8-2021)
§ 110.08 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No Wayne County Health Official shall conduct himself or herself in a manner
that is or could have the appearance of a conflict of interest.
(Ord. 2021-011, passed 9-8-2021)
CHAPTER 111: FOOD MARKETS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Permit requirements
   
111.03   Fees, distribution and exceptions
   
111.04   Minimum sanitation requirements
   
111.05   Sale, examination and condemnation of unwholesome, adulterated or
misbranded food
   
111.06   Inspection
   
111.07   Approval of plans
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY. Those rural and urban areas which are under the jurisdiction of the
Wayne County Health Officer.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer of Wayne County, State of Indiana, or his
or her duly authorized representative.
   RULE 410 I.A.C. 7-16.1, § 1. All other definitions as contained in the
state’s Board of Health Rule 410 I.A.C. 7-16.1, § 1, shall apply in the
interpretation and enforcement of this chapter.
(1982 Code, § 93.01) (Ord. passed 4-21-1969; Ord. passed 3-23-1987)
§ 111.02 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   The general requirements concerning permits for food market establishments
shall be as follows.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a food market in the
county, who does not possess a valid permit from the Health Officer.
   (B)   Upon issuance, such permits shall be posed in a conspicuous place in
such food market.
   (C)   Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements of this
chapter shall be entitled to receive and retain such a permit.
   (D)   The permit for a food market shall be for a term of one year beginning
January 1 and expiring December 31 of the same year and shall be renewed
annually.
   (E)   Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain the name and
address of the person to whom the permit is granted, the address of the
premises for which the same is issued and such other pertinent data as may be
required by the Health Officer.
   (F)   A separate permit shall be required for each food market operated or
to be operated by any person.
   (G)   A permit issued under this chapter is not transferable.
   (H)   A permit shall be issued to any person on application after inspection
and approval by the Health Officer; provided that, the food market complies
with all the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   No permit or renewal thereof shall be denied or revoked or arbitrary
or capricious grounds.
(1982 Code, § 93.02) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 FEES, DISTRIBUTION AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Permits shall be provided by the Health Department of the county, as
follows.
      (1)   A fee of $25 will be paid for each permit issued. A delinquency fee
for any annual permit shall be double that of the regular fee if such permit is
not obtained by February 1 of each year.
      (2)   A fee of $12.50 will be paid if the permit is issued on or after
July 1 of any year.
   (B)   Permit fee exceptions shall be as follows.
      (1)   No permit fee shall be paid for food markets operated by religious,
educational or charitable organizations. However, such establish- ments shall
comply with the other provisions of §
111.02(A) through (I) of this chapter.
      (2)   Mobile food markets owned by a person operating a food market who
possess a valid permit from the Health Officer to operate such a food market
shall be exempt from the provisions of division (A) above.
   (C)   All fees collected under the terms of this chapter shall be receipted
monthly into the County Health Fund for services rendered in enforcing this
chapter.
(1982 Code, § 93.03) (Ord. passed 4-21-1969; Ord. passed 11-17-1986; Ord.
passed 12-6-1999)
§ 111.04 MINIMUM SANITATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All food markets shall comply with the minimum sanitation requirements
specified by the state’s Board of Health as now provided in its requirements in
Rule 410 I.A.C. 7-16.1, or as the same may be hereafter changed or amended.
Such rule and any changes and amendments thereto which may be hereafter adopted
or promulgated are by reference incorporated herein and made a part hereof, two
copies of which are on file in the office of the County Auditor for public
inspection.
(1982 Code, § 93.04) (Ord. passed 4-21-1969; Ord. passed 3-23-1987) Penalty,
see §
111.99
§ 111.05 SALE, EXAMINATION AND CONDEMNATION OF UNWHOLESOME, ADULTERATED OR
MISBRANDED FOOD.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, through a food market,
any food that is unwholesome, adulterated or misbranded.
   (B)   Samples of food may be taken and examined by the Health Officer as
often as may be necessary to determine freedom from unwholesomeness,
adulteration or misbranding.
   (C)   The Health Officer may, on written notice to the owner or operator,
impound and forbid the sale of any food which is unwholesome, adulterated or
misbranded, or which he or she has probable cause to believe to be unwholesome,
adulterated or misbranded.
   (D)   The Health Officer may cause to be removed or destroyed any food which
in, his or her opinion, is unwholesome, misbranded or adulterated; provided
that, in the case of misbranding which can be corrected by proper labeling,
such food may be released to the operator for correct labeling under the
supervision of the Health Officer or his or her duly authorized representative.
(1982 Code, § 93.05) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 INSPECTION.
   (A)   At least once each six months, the Health Officer shall inspect each
food market for which a permit is required under the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   If, during the inspection of any food market, the Health Officer
discovers the violation of any sanitation requirement in §§
111.04 or
111.05 of this chapter, he or she shall issue a written order listing such
violations to the proprietor or, in his or her absence, to the person in
charge, and fixing time within which the said proprietor of said food market
shall abate and remedy such violations. A copy of the written order shall be
filed with the records of the Health Department.
   (C)   The person operating the food market shall, upon request of the Health
Officer, permit such Health Officer or his or her authorized representative
access to all parts of such food market and shall permit copying any or all
records relative to the enforcement of this chapter.
   (D)   If, upon a second a final inspection, the Health Officer finds that
such food market, person or employee is violating any of the provisions of this
chapter which were in violation on the previous inspection, and concerning
which a written order was issued, the Health Officer shall furnish evidence of
the violation to the prosecutor having jurisdiction in the county in which the
violation occurs, and he or she shall prosecute all persons violating said
provisions of this chapter; or the Health Officer may promptly issue a written
order to the permittee of such food market to appear at a certain time, no
later than ten days from the date of final inspection and at a place in said
county fixed in said order to show cause why the permit issued under the
provisions of §
111.02 of this chapter should not be revoked.
   (E)   The Health Officer, upon such hearing if the permittee should fail to
show cause, shall revoke said permit and promptly give written notice of such
action to permittee. The Health Officer shall maintain a permanent record of
his or her proceedings filed in the office of the Health Department.
   (F)   Any permit issued under this chapter may be temporarily suspended by
the Health Officer without notice or hearing for a period not to exceed 30
days, for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Insanitary or other conditions which in the Health Officer’s
opinion endangers the public health; and/or
      (2)   Interference with the Health Officer or his or her authorized
representative in the performance of his or her duties; provided, however,
that, upon written application from the permittee served upon the Health
Officer within 15 days after such suspension, the Health Officer shall conduct
a hearing upon the matter after giving at least five days’ written notice of
the time, place and purpose thereof to the suspended permittee; provided
further that, any such suspension order shall be issued by the Health Officer
in writing and served upon the permittee by leaving a copy at his or her usual
place of business or by delivery of registered or certified mail to such
address.
   (G)   Any person whose permit has been suspended may, at any time, make
application to the Health Officer for the reinstatement of his or her permit.
(1982 Code, § 93.06)
§ 111.07 APPROVAL OF PLANS.
   All food markets which are hereafter constructed or altered shall conform
with the applicable requirements set forth in §
111.04 of this chapter. Properly prepared plans and specifications shall be
submitted to and approved by the Health Officer as may be required before
starting any construction work.
(1982 Code, § 93.07)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. On conviction, the violator shall be punished
for the first offense, by a fine of not more than $500; for the second offense,
by a fine of not more than $1,000; and, for a third and each subsequent
offense, by a fine of not more than $1,000 to which may be added imprisonment
for any determinate period not exceeding 90 days. Each day of operation of a
food market in violation of §
111.02 of this chapter or after the expiration of the time limit for abating
insanitary conditions and completing improvements to abate such conditions as
ordered by the Health Officer shall constitute a distinct and separate offense.
(1982 Code, § 93.99) (Ord. passed 4-21-1969; Ord. passed 3-23-1987)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   TOBACCO USAGE
      
131.   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
      
132.   FIREARMS AND WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: TOBACCO USAGE
Section
County-Owned Facilities
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Prohibited activities
   
130.03   Notice of restricted activities
 
   
130.99   Penalty
COUNTY-OWNED FACILITIES
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY FACILITIES. All of the following:
      (1)   Any building owned or leased, in whole or in part, by county;
      (2)   Any motor vehicle owned or leased by county and used as a county
“pool” car/vehicle; and
      (3)   The grounds and outside campus of all county-owned properties
(excepting the County Highway Garage).
   SMOKELESS TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Tobacco or tobacco substitute products that are
consumed other than by ignition and inhalation/ exhalation, including, but not
limited to, chewing tobacco, snuff or pouched tobacco products placed in the
mouth. The term SMOKELESS TOBACCO
PRODUCTS does not include medically prescribed or over-the-counter smoking
cessation products such as chewing gum or skin infusion contact patches.
   SMOKING. The carrying or holding of a lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe or any
other ignited or lighted smoking equipment, or the inhalation or exhalation of
smoke from any ignited or lighted smoking equipment.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 10-15-2008)
§ 130.02 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   Smoking and the use of smokeless tobacco products is hereby prohibited in or
on all county facilities. This prohibition extends to privately-owned motor
vehicles while they are located on county facilities.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 10-15-2008) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 NOTICE OF RESTRICTED ACTIVITIES.
   Prior to the effective date for the enforcement of this subchapter, the
county shall:
   (A)   Cause to be posted conspicuous signage in or about all county
facilities advising that smoking and the use of smokeless tobacco products is
prohibited in or on such county facilities;
   (B)   Instruct those officials in charge of county facilities to request
that persons found to be smoking or using smokeless tobacco products in or on
county facilities to immediately cease and refrain from such activities; and
   (C)   Instruct those officials in charge of county facilities that they
shall cause any person who refuses to cease and refrain from smoking or from
using smokeless tobacco products after having been requested to do so, to be
removed from county facilities by invoicing the assistance of law enforcement
officials under whose jurisdiction the county facilities lie.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 10-15-2008)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 16-41-37-4(1), a person who smokes in a county-
owned public building commits a Class B infraction. However, the violation is a
Class A infraction if the person has at least three previous unrelated judgment
for violating that section that have accrued within 12 months immediately
preceding the violation.
      (2)   Passage of §§
130.01 through
130.03 of this chapter is pursuant to, and in furtherance of, the limited
police powers of the Board. Violations of §§
130.01 through
130.03 of this chapter shall be enforced in accordance with the ordinance
enforcement provisions provided by law. The maximum penalty for violation of §§
130.01 through
130.03 of this chapter shall be a fine in an amount not to exceed the sum of
$100 for an initial violation and a fine in an amount not to exceed the sum of
$250 for any subsequent violation occurring within 12 months immediately
preceding the violation. In addition to the foregoing fines, county employees
who violate the terms of §§
130.01 through
130.03 of this chapter shall be subject to discipline in accordance with the
applicable personnel policies of county.
(Ord. 2008-012, passed 10-15-2008)
CHAPTER 131: SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
Section
   
131.01   Burning, incinerating or igniting prohibited
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 BURNING, INCINERATING OR IGNITING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (“products”), such as K2/
Spice, or similar products that contain one or more of the following chemical
compounds:
      (1)   (6aR, 10aR)-9- (hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl-3 -(2methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a) 7, 10, 10a-tetra-hydrobenzo [c]chromen-1-ol, also known as “HU-210”;
      (2)   l-Pentyl-3-(l-naphmoyl)indole, also known as “JWH-018”;
      (3)   l-Bulyl-3-(l-naphthoyl)indoie, also known as “JWH-073”; or
      (4)   Any other equivalent compound or derivative shall not be sold,
marketed or offered for sale within the county.
   (B)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (“products”) may not be
burned, incinerated or ignited in any public place or on any property owned,
leased or controlled by the county.
(Ord. 2010-008, passed 11-24-2010) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Persons or entities violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to the penalty imposed for a Class B infraction, as set forth in I.C.
34-28-5-4. Accordingly, this chapter shall be enforced pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 34-28-5.
(Ord. 2010-008, passed 11-24-2010)
CHAPTER 132: FIREARMS AND WEAPONS
Section
   
132.01   Definitions
   
132.02   Prohibited conduct
   
132.03   Searches by security personnel
   
132.04   Discovery of firearm in prohibited area
   
132.05   Authority of law enforcement
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMMUNITION. Any of the following: fixed cartridge ammunition; shotgun
shells; individual components of fixed cartridge ammunition and shotgun shells;
projectiles for muzzle loading firearms; and any propellant used in a firearm
or in firearm ammunition.
   BUILDING. A structure, land area (regardless of whether it is improved) or
any other facility that is county owned.
   COMMISSIONER(S). Wayne County, Indiana, Board of Commissioners.
   COUNTY. Wayne County, Indiana.
   COUNTY-OWNED. A building owned, leased or otherwise occupied by the county,
or any agency thereof.
   FIREARM. Any weapon that is capable of expelling, designed to expel or may
be readily converted to expel a projectile by means of an explosion.
   FIREARM ACCESSORY. Any device specifically adapted to enable the wearing or
carrying about one’s person, or the storage or mounting in or on any conveyance
of a firearm, and any attachment or device specifically adapted to be inserted
into or affixed onto any firearm to enable, alter or improve the functioning or
capabilities of the firearm.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any person described in I.C. 35-41-1-17.
   ON-DUTY. Any activity performed by a law enforcement officer directly in
connection with his or her employment as a law enforcement officer making
necessary his or her presence in a county-owned building. Such activities
include, but are not limited to, providing testimony, investigating a crime,
serving a summons or subpoena or executing a probable cause affidavit.
   SECURITY PERSONNEL. A person employed by the county whose primary
responsibility is to maintain a safe and secure environment in a county-owned
building.
(Ord. 2011-011, passed 10-5-2011)
§ 132.02 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall carry into or possess a firearm, ammunition or firearm
accessory in any building that contains a courtroom of a circuit, superior,
city, town or small claims court.
   (B)   No person shall intentionally display a firearm at any county public
meeting.
   (C)   No person shall carry into or possess a firearm in any event occurring
on property leased from the county by an event promoter or organizer if the
promoter or organizer chooses to implement this prohibition as a requirement
for admission or as rules of conduct in connection with the event. Such a
prohibition will not be implemented for every event occurring on property
leased from the county, but may be enforced at the promoter or organizer’s
discretion.
(Ord. 2011-011, passed 10-5-2011) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 SEARCHES BY SECURITY PERSONNEL.
   Security personnel stationed in any building that contains a courtroom of a
circuit, superior, city, town or small claims court are empowered use
reasonable means to search for firearms those wishing to enter. Permitted
methods of searching an individual desiring to enter such buildings include,
but are not limited to, metal detection and X-ray scans. Any other necessary
searches that are likely to lead to the discovery a firearm will be conducted
in the least intrusive means possible.
(Ord. 2011-011, passed 10-5-2011)
§ 132.04 DISCOVERY OF FIREARM IN PROHIBITED AREA.
   The discovery an illegally possessed firearm during a search described in §
132.03 of this chapter, or other illegal violation of a criminal statue during
a search may subject the person possessing such item to arrest and seizure of
the item. However, security personnel shall return a legally possessed firearm
to the person in possession thereof subsequent to the
person’s immediate and voluntary exit of the premises.
(Ord. 2011-011, passed 10-5-2011)
§ 132.05 AUTHORITY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A law enforcement agency of the county may enact and enforce
regulations pertaining to firearms, ammunition or firearm accessories issued to
or used by law enforcement officers in the course of their official duties.
   (B)   A law enforcement officer who is on-duty shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter. Upon request by security personnel, a law
enforcement officer shall provide proper identification and/or certify that he
or she is on-duty.
(Ord. 2011-011, passed 10-5-2011)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   A person adjudged guilty of possessing a firearm in any building that
contains a courtroom of a circuit, superior, city, town or small claims court,
or who intentionally displays a firearm at any county public meeting shall be
subject to a fine of $100. This penalty is in addition to any penalty imposed
by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2011-011, passed 10-5-2011)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   BUILDING CODE
      
152.   UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM
      
153.   PUBLIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN
      
154.   FLOOD HAZARD MANAGEMENT
      
155.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
156.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Storm water nuisance; investigation
Department of Buildings; Building Commissioner
   
150.15   Establishment
   
150.16   Conformance requirements
   
150.17   Personnel
   
150.18   Administration
   
150.19   Unsafe buildings
Unsafe Building Law
   
150.30   Establishment
   
150.31   Adoption of law by reference
   
150.32   Inspection determination
   
150.33   Building Commissioner authority
   
150.34   Compliance requirements
   
150.35   Criteria to determine unsafe buildings
   
150.36   Standards and acceptable practices
   
150.37   Designated Director
   
150.38   Unsafe Building Fund
   
150.39   Violation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 STORM WATER NUISANCE; INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-9-28.7, the designated entity of county government
to conduct an investigation into an alleged SWN shall be the County Surveyor,
in concert with the County Drainage Board.
   (B)   (1)   An application for such an investigation shall be filed with the
County Surveyor on forms provided by that office together with a non-refundable
application fee of $50 (the “application fee”) to cover the costs of a
preliminary review of the application.
      (2)   Failure or refusal of the applicant to submit the application fee
with the application to investigate or within five business days after initial
filing of the application shall be deemed a withdrawal of the application to
investigate.
   (C)   The applicant seeking the investigation of the alleged SWN shall be
responsible for all fees and costs incurred by the county in conducting the
requested investigation, including all professional fees of engineers,
surveyors, the county attorney or others needed to complete the work necessary
to arrive at the report contemplated by I.C. 36-9-28.7-9(c).
   (D)   (1)   To secure the costs that will be necessarily incurred by the
county to investigate the matters set forth in the application and to prepare
the report contemplated by the statute, the applicant shall deposit with the
County Surveyor the sum of $1,000 in cash or bank certified draft at the time
of filing the application to investigate an alleged storm water nuisance or
within five business days thereafter (the “costs security deposit”).
      (2)   Failure or refusal of the applicant to pay the costs security
deposit with the application to investigate or within five business days after
initial filing of the application, shall be deemed a withdrawal of the
application to investigate.
      (3)   In addition, the applicant, by filing the application to
investigate and paying the application fee and the costs security deposit,
thereby agrees to pay any additional cost above the costs security deposit
reasonably incurred by the county to perform the investigative and reporting
activities contemplated by the SWN statutes. The application fee and the costs
security deposit shall be payable to the County Surveyor who shall deposit
those funds into the County General Fund with the County Auditor separating the
deposited funds in such a manner as to enable a reconciliation of all charges
against the costs security deposit.
   (E)   In the event the county should incur costs less than the amount of the
costs security deposit, the difference between the costs actually incurred by
the county in completing the investigation and report contemplated by the SWN
statutes shall be refunded to the applicant with the county’s final report of
its investigation. In the event the cost of the requested investigation and
report preparation should exceed the amount of the costs security deposit, the
applicant shall pay the sum of the excess costs to the county and no reports
shall be provided by the county until all additional costs have been paid by
the applicant.
(Ord. 2017-017, passed 10-9-2017)
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS; BUILDING COMMISSIONER
§ 150.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Department of Buildings and the office of
Building Commissioner which shall be composed of the Building Commissioner,
inspectors and such other personnel as the Board of Commissioners shall
determine in accordance with I.C. 17-2-72-1, recodified as I.C. 36-7-8-1
(part), I.C. 36-7-8-3 and I.C. 36-7-8-4 (part), and all amended acts.
(1982 Code, § 56.01) (Ord. 1976-2, passed 1-26-1976)
§ 150.16 CONFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   All construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, relocation and use of
buildings, structures and dwellings shall conform with this subchapter and such
ordinances as may be hereafter adopted for such purposes by the Board of
Commissioners of the county.
(1982 Code, § 56.03) (Ord. 1976-2, passed 1-26-1976)
§ 150.17 PERSONNEL.
   The Board of Commissioners of the county may employ such additional
personnel in the Department as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of
this subchapter.
(1982 Code, § 56.06) (Ord. 1976-2, passed 1-26-1976)
§ 150.18 ADMINISTRATION.
   In the administration of this subchapter, and any other ordinances, incident
thereto, the Department shall cooperate with, and coordinate its activities
with, all affected or related city, county and state agencies so as to prevent
unnecessary overlapping, duplication and waste in the administrative process.
(1982 Code, § 56.07) (Ord. 1976-2, passed 1-26-1976)
§ 150.19 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   To establish and regulate unsafe buildings according to the State Building
Law set out in the I.C. 18-5-5.5 (I.C. 17-2-72, for counties).
(1982 Code, § 56.13) (Ord. 1976-2, passed 1-26-1976)
UNSAFE BUILDING LAW
§ 150.30 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-3, there is hereby established the
County Unsafe Building Law.
(1982 Code, § 57.01) (Ord. passed 4-11-1983)
§ 150.31 ADOPTION OF LAW BY REFERENCE.
   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 is hereby adopted by reference as the County
Unsafe Building Law. All proceedings within the county for the inspection,
repair and removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by said law and the
provisions of this subchapter. In the event the provisions of this subchapter
conflict with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28, then the
provisions of the state statute shall control.
(1982 Code, § 57.02) (Ord. passed 4-11-1983)
§ 150.32 INSPECTION DETERMINATION.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the county which are determined,
after inspection by the Building Commissioner, to be unsafe as defined in this
subchapter are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal in accordance with the procedure
specified in the County Unsafe Building Law.
(1982 Code, § 57.03) (Ord. passed 4-11-1983)
§ 150.33 BUILDING COMMISSIONER AUTHORITY.
   The County Building Commissioner shall be authorized to administer and to
proceed under the provisions of said law in ordering the repair or removal of
any buildings found to be unsafe as specified therein or as specified
hereafter.
(1982 Code, § 57.04) (Ord. passed 4-11-1983)
§ 150.34 COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Wherever in the building regulations of the county or the County Unsafe
Building Law, it is provided that anything must be done to the approval of or
subject to the direction of the Building Commissioner, or any other officer of
the county, this shall be construed to give such officer only the discretion of
determining whether the rules and standards established by ordinance have been
complied with; and no such provisions shall be construed as giving any officer
discretionary powers as to what such regulations or standards shall be, power
to require conditions not prescribed by ordinance or to enforce ordinance
provisions in an arbitrary or discretionary manner.
(1982 Code, § 57.05) (Ord. passed 4-11-1983)
§ 150.35 CRITERIA TO DETERMINE UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The definition of an unsafe building contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is
hereby supplemented to provide minimum standards for building condition or
maintenance in the county by adding the following to said definition.
   (B)   An UNSAFE BUILDING is any building or structure which has any or all
of the conditions or defects hereinafter described shall be deemed to be an
UNSAFE BUILDING; provided that, such conditions or defects exist to the extent
that life, health, property or safety of the public or its occupants are
endangered:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is not
of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (2)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or
location;
      (3)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location;
      (4)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
      (5)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof, is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
      (6)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
      (7)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of the following, is likely to partially or completely collapse:
         (a)   Dilapidation, deterioration or decay;
         (b)   Faulty construction;
         (c)   The removal, movement or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
         (d)   The deterioration, decay or Inadequacy of its foundation; or
         (e)   Any other cause.
      (8)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
      (9)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
      (10)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members,
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings;
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to
become:
         (a)   An attractive nuisance to children; or
         (b)   Freely accessible to persons for the purpose of committing
unlawful acts.
      (12)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists or
is maintained In violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of the county, or of any law or ordinance of the state or county relating to
the condition, location or structure of the buildings;
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances has in any non-supporting
part, member or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member or
portion less than 56% of the strength, fire-resisting qualities or
characteristics or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by
law in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height and
occupancy in the same location;
      (14)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangements, inadequate light, air or
sanitation facilities or otherwise, is determined by the Building Commissioner
of the county to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a
condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease;
      (15)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas connections
or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the Building
Commissioner of the county to be a fire hazard; and
      (16)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
(1982 Code, § 57.06) (Ord. passed 4-11-1983)
§ 150.36 STANDARDS AND ACCEPTABLE PRACTICES.
   All work for the reconstruction, alteration, repair or demolition of
buildings and other structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner
according to the accepted standards and practices in the trade. The provisions
of the rules and regulations pertaining to construction, plumbing, electrical,
mechanical and one- and two-family dwellings, promulgated by the Administrative
Building Council of the state, shall be considered standard and acceptable
practice for all matters covered by this subchapter or orders issued pursuant
to this subchapter by the Building Commissioner of the county.
(1982 Code, § 57.07) (Ord. passed 4-11-1983)
§ 150.37 DESIGNATED DIRECTOR.
   The Building Commissioner of the county is hereby designated the Director in
accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-3 and for the purpose of
conducting hearings in accordance with I.C. 36-7-9-7.
(1982 Code, § 57.08) (Ord. passed 4-11-1983)
§ 150.38 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating budget of the
county in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
(1982 Code, § 57.09) (Ord. passed 4-11-1983)
§ 150.39 VIOLATION.
   No person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee or
occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or premises, or
cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter or any order issued by the county. Any person
violating the provisions of this subchapter or the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-28
shall commit a Class C infraction for each day such violation continues.
(1982 Code, § 57.10) (Ord. passed 4-11-1983) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Authority
   
151.04   Scope
   
151.05   Adoption of rules by reference
   
151.06   Permits required
   
151.07   Application for permit and review
   
151.08   Other ordinances
   
151.09   Fee schedule
   
151.10   Inspections
   
151.11   Entry
   
151.12   Stop order
   
151.13   Certificate of use and occupancy
   
151.14   Workmanship
   
151.15   Violations
   
151.16   Appeals
   
151.17   Enforcement
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all ordinances supplemental and amendatory hereto shall be
known as the “Building Code of Wayne County, Indiana”, may be cited as such,
and will be referred to herein as “this code”.
(1982 Code, § 58.01) (Ord. passed 1-6-1987; Ord. passed 6-24-1992; Ord. passed
2-16-1998)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards for the
protection of life, limb, health, environment, public safety and welfare and
for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(1982 Code, § 58.02) (Ord. passed 1-6-1987; Ord. passed 6-24-1992; Ord. passed
2-16-1998)
§ 151.03 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner of the county, herein referred to as the
“Building Commissioner”, is hereby authorized and directed to administer and
enforce all of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever the chapter provides that anything must be done to the
approval of or subject to the direction of the Building Commissioner or any
other officer of the county, this shall be construed to give such officer the
discretion of determining whether the rules and standards established by
ordinance have been complied with.
(1982 Code, § 58.03) (Ord. passed 1-6-1987; Ord. passed 6-24-1992; Ord. passed
2-16-1998)
§ 151.04 SCOPE.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter are based upon occupancy in the
unincorporated areas of the county, and applies to:
      (1)   The construction, alteration, equipment, use, occupancy, location
and maintenance of buildings, structures and appurtenances that are on land or
over water and are:
         (a)   Erected after code takes effect; and
         (b)   Existing when this code takes effect.
      (2)   Conversions of buildings and structures or parts of them from one
occupancy classification to another;
      (3)   The movement or demolition of buildings, structures and equipment
for the operation of buildings and structures; and
      (4)   An owner who serves as his or her own general contractor and hires
independent contractors to perform a substantial portion of the construction.
   (B)   Provided, however, this code does not apply to:
      (1)   Agricultural buildings designed and constructed to house farm
implements, hay, grain, poultry, livestock or other horticultural products with
such structure not to be a place of human habitation or a place of employment
where agricultural products are processed, treated or packaged, nor shall it be
a place used by the public;
      (2)   Private homes that are built, repaired or altered by individuals
for their own occupancy; provided, the individual owner and builder has filed
in the office of the Plan Department of the county in the administration
building:
         (a)   A location improvement permit issued in accord with Ch. 156 of
this code of ordinances by the plan and Zoning Department or the town or city
having jurisdiction in a two-mile fringe area; and
         (b)   A notice of intent to build a private home for occupancy by the
builder on forms provided by the Building Commission.
      (3)   Alterations, additions or repairs to a structure, the cost of which
does not exceed $1,000;
      (4)   Fences; and
      (5)   Industrialized building systems or mobile Structures certified
under I.C. 22-15.4.
(1982 Code, § 58.04) (Ord. passed 1-6-1987; Ord. passed 6-24-1992; Ord. passed
2-16-1998)
§ 151.05 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Building rules of the Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission as set out in the following articles of I.A.C. Title 675 are hereby
incorporated by reference in this chapter and shall include later amendments to
those articles as the same are published in the Indiana Register of the Indiana
Administrative Code, with effective dates as fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Code:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards;
         (b)   Indiana Building Code; and
         (c)   Indiana Handicapped Accessibility Code.
      (2)   Article 14 - One- and Two- Family Dwelling Codes: Indiana One- and
Two- Family Dwelling Code;
      (3)   Article 16 - Plumbing Codes: Indiana Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17 - Electrical Codes:
         (a)   Indiana Electrical Code; and
         (b)   Safety Code for Health Care Facilities.
      (5)   Article 18 - Mechanical Codes: Indiana Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19 - Energy Conservation Codes:
         (a)   Indiana Energy Conservation Code; and
         (b)   Modifications to the Model Energy Code.
      (7)   Article 20 - Swimming Pool Codes: Indiana Swimming Pool Code.
   (B)   Copies of the adopted building rules, codes and standards are on file
in the office of the Building Commissioner.
(1982 Code, § 58.05) (Ord. passed 1-6-1987; Ord. passed 6-24-1992; Ord. passed
2-16-1998)
§ 151.06 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permits shall be obtained from the office of the Building Commissioner
prior to the commencement of work in the following instances.
      (1)   Building permit.
         (a)   Construction of all new structures;
         (b)   Alterations, additions or repairs for a structure, the cost of
which exceeds $1,000;
         (c)   The moving of any building or structure;
         (d)   The construction of a swimming pool; and
         (e)   The installation of a modular or manufactured home.
      (2)   Electrical permit.
         (a)   The installation, alteration, extension or replacement of
electrical wiring,
including wiring for additional circuits, rewiring and circuit replacement; and
         (b)   The installation, relocation or replacement of any permanent
electrical service.
      (3)   Plumbing permit.
         (a)   The installation, alteration, extension or replacement of all
plumbing, piping, fixtures, appliances and appurtenances in connection with
sanitary drainage, liquid waste and sewerage systems, venting systems and water
supply systems, the cost of which work exceeds $1,000.
         (b)   All persons performing plumbing in the unincorporated areas of
the county, under the provisions of a permit issued pursuant to this code,
shall be licensed by the state, as required by I.C. 25-28-5. It shall be the
responsibility of a licensed plumbing contractor to obtain permits required by
this chapter prior to commencing work. No plumbing contractor shall allow any
other person to do or cause to be done any work under a permit obtained by said
plumbing contractor, except persons in his or her employ.
   (B)   Every permit issued by the Building Commissioner, or duly authorized
representative, under the provisions of this code, shall expire one year from
the date of issuance unless an extension or renewal of the permit has been
obtained.
   (C)   A holder of an unexpired permit may apply for a one-time six-month
extension of the permit. No additional fee shall be required for this one-time
extension.
   (D)   A holder of a permit which has been expired for a period no longer
than six months may have the permit renewed for an additional six-month period;
provided, no changes have been made in the original plans and specifications
for such work. The fee for renewal shall be one-half of the original permit
fee.
(1982 Code, § 58.06) (Ord. passed 1-6-1987; Ord. passed 6-24-1992; Ord. passed
2-16-1998)
§ 151.07 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT AND REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   The property owner or his or her authorized agent shall make
application, upon forms provided by the Building Commissioner, and acquire all
necessary permits before any work subject to the provisions of this code have
been commenced.
      (2)   A licensed contractor who is to perform work subject to the
provisions of this code shall confirm all necessary permits have been acquired
or obtain all necessary permits prior to the commencement of work.
      (3)   All permit applications shall be accompanied by two sets of plans
drawn to scale or properly dimensioned.
      (4)   The plans shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the nature of
the work proposed and shall show in detail that it will conform to the
provisions of this code and all relevant laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations.
      (5)   Prior to the issuance of any building permit hereunder, the
Building Commissioner, or a duly authorized representative of the Building
Commissioner, shall review all building permit applications to determine
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The Building Commissioner, or a duly authorized representative,
shall upon approval of an application for a permit issue a permit upon the
payment of applicable fees to the County Building Commission, as hereinafter
provided.
      (2)   Upon issuance of a permit, the applicant shall be provided a
building permit card to be posted in a conspicuous place at the site of the
work, in full view of the public during construction until all work has been
completed, a final inspection approved, and
a certificate of use and occupancy issued as hereinafter provided.
   (C)   Permit fees shall be doubled when construction is begun prior to the
issuance of a permit.
   (D)   (1)   All plans for the building construction of Class 1 structures,
which are under the authority of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission of the state, must also be filed with the State Building
Commissioner.
      (2)   No local permits for Class 1 structures shall be issued until a
copy of a construction design release from the State Building Commissioner and
two copies of the plans and specifications, approved and stamped by the State
Building Commissioner, are received by the County Building Commissioner.
(1982 Code, § 58.07) (Ord. passed 1-6-1987; Ord. passed 6-24-1992; Ord. passed
2-16-1998)
§ 151.08 OTHER ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All work done under any permit issued shall be in full compliance with
all other ordinances pertaining thereto.
   (B)   In addition to the fees for permits hereinafter provided for, there
shall be paid the fees prescribed in such ordinances.
(1982 Code, § 58.08) (Ord. passed 1-6-1987; Ord. passed 6-24-1992; Ord. passed
2-16-1998)
§ 151.09 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The schedule of fees required by this chapter shall be as follows: all fees
shall be payable to “Wayne County Building Commission”.
Building permits                     Minimum permit fee: $35
                                     New residential garages, carports, decks,
   Accessory structures           porches, sheds and pole barns: $0.05 per
                                     square foot (minimum: $35)
   Commercial, institutional or   $2 per $1,000 of actual cost (minimum:
industrial                           $100)
   Manufactured homes             $0.06 per square foot
                                     Require an improvement location permit,
   Mobile homes                   electrical permit and plumbing permit
                                     only. A building permit will not be issued
                                     $0.07 per sq. ft. (This includes modular
                                     homes and relocation of existing homes.)
                                     Note: square footage is based on the
   New one- and two-family dwellinoutside dimensions of the house including
                                     the attached garage, second story and
                                     finished or partially finished basement
                                     areas
   Residential remodeling         $2 per $1,000 of actual cost (minimum:
                                     $35)
   Residential room additions     $0.06 per square foot (minimum: $35)
Certificate of occupancy             $35
Electrical permit                    $35
Extension of permit-one time         No charge
Plan review                          $35
Plumbing permit                      $35
Re-inspection                        $35
Renewal of permit                    1/2 original fee
Swimming pool permit                 $35
Work started without a permit        Permit fee doubled
 
(1982 Code, § 58.09) (Ord. passed 1-6-1987; Ord. passed 6-24-1992; Ord. passed
2-16-1998)
§ 151.10 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   After the issuance of a building permit hereunder, the Building
Commissioner shall make, or shall cause to be made, such inspections of the
work being done under such permit as are necessary to insure compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and the terms of the permit. Re-inspection of
work found to be incomplete or not ready for inspection when an inspector has
been requested are subject to assessment of re-inspection fees. Any person,
firm or corporation who has obtained a permit from the Building Commissioner
shall be required to request an inspection of the work performed whenever
required by this chapter, state statutes, rules or regulations. The inspection
shall be requested at least 24 hours in advance of the need for such
inspection. It shall be the duty of the person requesting the inspection to
provide access to and means for the proper inspection of such work. The person
responsible for performing the work shall be required to be present on the job
site during the inspection. No portion of any work shall be covered or
concealed until inspected and approved. The county shall not be liable for any
expense entailed in the removal or replacement of material required to permit
inspection. It shall be the responsibility of the person obtaining the permit
to ensure that all phases of the work are completed before requesting a final
inspection.
   (B)   Schedule of required inspections:
      (1)   Footing inspection: performed prior to the placement of concrete.
All forms, bulkheads and grade skates must be in place at the time of
inspection;
      (2)   (a)   Foundation inspection: performed prior to any backfilling.
Foundation drain systems and sump pits must be completed.
         (b)   Grade beam/bond beams: when used must be inspected prior to
placing concrete.
      (3)   Under-slab inspection: performed prior to covering the installation
of all underground and under-slab electrical, heating and air conditioning, and
plumbing systems;
      (4)   Framing inspection: performed prior to applying insulation, drywall
or any other covering. All mechanical, plumbing and electrical work must be
roughed-in prior to inspection. Masonry firewalls are to be completed and
visible at the time of inspection. Electrical, plumbing and mechanical
inspections will be performed at this time unless other arrangements have been
made with the inspector;
      (5)   Final inspection: performed at the time of project completion,
prior to using or occupying the structure; and
      (6)   Special inspections: in addition to the inspections listed above,
the Building Commissioner, or a duly authorized representative, may make or
require to be made any other inspections to assure compliance with the Building
Code and other laws enforced by the Building Commission.
(1982 Code, § 58.10) (Ord. passed 1-6-1987; Ord. passed 6-24-1992; Ord. passed
2-16-1998)
§ 151.11 ENTRY.
   Upon representation of proper credentials, the Building Commissioner or his
or her duly authorized representatives may enter at reasonable times any
building, structure or premises in the county to perform any duty imposed upon
them by this chapter.
(1982 Code, § 58.11) (Ord. passed 1-6-1987; Ord. passed 6-24-1992; Ord. passed
2-16-1998)
§ 151.12 STOP ORDER.
   (A)   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this
chapter, the Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in
writing served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be
done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by
the Building Commissioner to proceed with the work.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of the property to
ensure that the stop work order is complied with.
      (2)   The owner, the contractor and any person, firm or corporation who
shall continue or permit to be continued any work on a stopped project, or
portion thereof, other than corrective work, shall be in violation of this
code.
      (3)   The owner, the contractor and the person, firm or corporation shall
be notified in writing of such violation and fine.
      (4)   The written notice of violation shall be delivered by certified
mail, return receipt requested, or by delivery in person.
   (C)   Each act of violation and every day, or portion thereof, upon which a
violation occurs shall be considered a separate offense.
(1982 Code, § 58.12) (Ord. passed 1-6-1987; Ord. passed 6-24-1992; Ord. passed
2-16-1998)
§ 151.13 CERTIFICATE OF USE AND OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No certificate of use and occupancy for any building or structure
constructed after the adoption of this chapter shall be issued unless such
building or structure was constructed, altered, repaired or changed in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. It shall be unlawful to occupy
any such building or structure unless a certificate of use and occupancy has
been issued by the Building Commissioner. A temporary certificate of use and
occupancy may be issued, at the discretion of the Building Commissioner, if it
is determined that the work to be completed or corrected does not adversely
affect building safety and fire safety features of the building or structure.
Such temporary certificate of use and occupancy will have a specified
expiration date, at which time a permanent certificate of use and occupancy
must be obtained.
   (B)   Failure to obtain a permanent certificate of use and occupancy will
constitute a violation of this chapter. Each day, or portion thereof, shall be
considered a separate offense.
(1982 Code, § 58.13) (Ord. passed 1-6-1987; Ord. passed 6-24-1992; Ord. passed
2-16-1998) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.14 WORKMANSHIP.
   All work on the construction, alteration and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade.
(1982 Code, § 58.14) (Ord. passed 1-6-1987; Ord. passed 6-24-1992; Ord. passed
2-16-1998)
§ 151.15 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sub-lessee or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, convert or remodel any building or structure in the county or cause to
permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of
this chapter.
(1982 Code, § 58.15) (Ord. passed 1-6-1987; Ord. passed 6-24-1992; Ord. passed
2-16-1998) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.16 APPEALS.
   A person aggrieved by a decision of the Building Commissioner may appeal to
the Board of Commissioners and then to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission of the state in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 22-13-2-7 and
I.C. 4-21.5-3-7, or as in other civil actions pursuant to I.C. 36-7-8-9.
(1982 Code, § 58.16) (Ord. passed 1-6-1987; Ord. passed 6-24-1992; Ord. passed
2-16-1998)
§ 151.17 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall, in the name of the county, bring
actions in the Circuit or Superior Courts of the county for mandatory and
injunctive relief in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order
or orders, made by the Building Commissioner, and any such action for mandatory
or injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the penalties
provided for in this chapter made by the Building Commissioner or his or her
duly authorized representative.
   (B)   (1)   Any person to be found in violation of this chapter may also be
required to pay costs of prosecution.
      (2)   The County Sheriff’s Department, upon request of the Building
Commissioner, shall assist in the enforcement of this chapter.
      (3)   The Building Commissioner may request the Sheriff’s to accompany
him or her to any premises to help enforce the law and serve required notices.
(1982 Code, § 58.17) (Ord. passed 1-6-1987; Ord. passed 6-24-1992; Ord. passed
2-16-1998)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to perform
any duly lawfully enjoined within the time prescribed by the Building
Commissioner, or shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order given
by the Building Commissioner in connection with the provisions of this chapter,
for each such violation, failure or refusal, such person, firm or corporation
shall be fined in any sum not less than $100, nor more than $1,000. Every
action of violation and each day of such unlawful activity as is prohibited by
the first sentence of this section shall constitute a separate offense. Failure
to remit fine within ten days may result in issuance of summons for said
violation in the proper court of jurisdiction.
(1982 Code, § 58.18) (Ord. passed 1-6-1987; Ord. passed 6-24-1992; Ord. passed
2-16-1998)
CHAPTER 152: UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM
Section
   
152.01   Uniform numbering system
   
152.02   Relation to health and welfare
   
152.03   Conformity
   
152.04   Base lines and sequences
   
152.05   Administrative office
   
152.06   Numbers other than on public streets and roads
   
152.07   Standards for the posting of house numbers
   
152.08   Renumbering of houses and structures
   
152.09   Notification of local agencies
   
Appendix A: Numbering System Map
§ 152.01 UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   A plan for the orderly and systematic numbering and/or renumbering of houses
and structures looted within the jurisdictional area of the County Advisory
Plan Commission is hereby enacted (hereinafter, “uniform numbering system”).
Any and all ordinances previously adopted by the Board of County Commissioners
regarding the numbering and/or renumbering of houses and structures are hereby
deemed repealed.
(1982 Code, § 52.01) (Ord. passed 4-13-1987)
§ 152.02 RELATION TO HEALTH AND WELFARE.
   (A)   The numbering and/or renumbering of houses and other structures in an
orderly and systematic manner will make the location for such houses and
structures more expeditious in cases of fire emergencies, in situations
involving immediate need for medical attention for members of family or
occupants of a building, and in instances where police protection may be
required with haste.
   (B)   An orderly and systematic house numbering process will also enhance
the delivery of goods and services, as well as increase the efficiency of
operations such as postal delivery.
(1982 Code, § 52.02) (Ord. passed 4-13-1987)
§ 152.03 CONFORMITY.
   (A)   From the effective date of this chapter, the numbering of all houses
and structures located on lots or parcels of land abutting public streets or
roads within the jurisdictional area of the County Advisory Plan Commission
shall be accomplished in conformity with the uniformity numbering system, as
herein described.
   (B)   At the time of issuance of any permit for the construction of a house
or structure, a number shall be assigned by the County Advisory Plan Commission
to said house or structure as hereinafter provided. Such number shall be
included on the permit, and no permit authorizing the occupancy of a house or
structure shall be issued and no final inspection of a building performed for
the purpose of permitting its occupancy shall be deemed complete unless such
house or structure displays, at the time of inspection, the officially assigned
number in full compliance with the standards of this chapter.
(1982 Code, § 52.03) (Ord. passed 4-13-1987)
§ 152.04 BASE LINES AND SEQUENCES.
   (A)   The base lines for the Uniform Numbering System shall be as described
below and numbers shall be assigned in each of the four cardinal directions,
increasing from zero at the point of intersection of the base line, all in
general conformity with the base lines set forth on the map in App. A of this
chapter.
      (1)   The east and west base line shall be along National Road East and
East and West Main Street in the City of Richmond from the east line of the
county west to Salisbury Road. Said base line shall jog to the north along
Salisbury Road to College Corner Road and run west with College Corner Road and
the west extension thereof including Black Road, parts of Dougherty and Goose
Heaven Roads and Williams Sisters Road to the west line of the county. In those
areas where no road exists, the base line shall be along the appropriate
section line.
      (2)   The north and south base line shall begin on the south line of the
county, 1,000 feet west of the south quarter corner of Section 5, Township 12
North, Range 1 West, and run north, parallel to the centerline of said Section
5 and each centerline of each succeeding section until it intersects the East
Fork of the Whitewater River. Said base line then follows said river to the
north to its confluence with the West Fork of the East Fork of the Whitewater
River where it follows said West Fork to the north to a point on the north and
south centerline of Section 29, Township 14 North, Range 1 West, at a point
near the center corner of said section, said base line continues north along
the centerline of said Section 29 and each centerline of each succeeding
section, including Gifford Road, and the north extension thereof across the
Greenville Treaty Line to the north line of the county.
   (B)   The uniform numbering system shall be an extension of the numbering
system of the City of Richmond. The numbers shall begin at zero with 100
numbers to the city block. The general rule shall be 500 numbers to one-half
mile, except in certain areas where the irregular direction of the Whitewater
River and the angling of the Greenville Treaty Line makes variations necessary.
   (C)   All streets and roads and parts thereof running north and south add
either the word “North” or “South” to the end of their official name, as is
appropriate for their location in relationship to the above described east and
west base line. All streets and roads and parts thereof running east and west
shall add either the word “East” or “West” to the end of their official name,
as is appropriate for their location in relationship to the above described
north and south base line.
   (D)   All streets and roads and parts thereof that run at an angle, or in a
curved manner in relationship to the four cardinal directions, shall be
considered and have assigned to their name the one cardinal direction in which
they predominately traverse the county.
   (E)   Odd numbers shall be assigned to the east side of north and south
streets and roads and the south side of east and west streets or roads. Even
numbers shall be assigned to the west side of north and south streets and roads
and the north side of east and west streets and roads.
(1982 Code, § 52.04) (Ord. passed 4-13-1987)
§ 152.05 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE.
   (A)   The County Plan Department shall act as the administrative office
(herein after “administrative office”) in charge of issuing numbers to houses
or structures in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The administrative office shall issue numbers to all new houses or
structures, renumber houses and structures whenever it becomes necessary to do
so in the implementation of the uniform system and cause the numbering of all
existing homes or structures which are not numbered to be numbered in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(1982 Code, § 52.05) (Ord. passed 4-13-1987)
§ 152.06 NUMBERS OTHER THAN ON PUBLIC STREETS AND ROADS.
   The administrative office may, if it deems proper and necessary for the
implementation of the uniform numbering system, assign numbers to houses or
structures that are situated on private streets or roads within the
jurisdictional area of the County Advisory Plan Commission.
(1982 Code, § 52.06) (Ord. passed 4-13-1987)
§ 152.07 STANDARDS FOR THE POSTING OF HOUSE NUMBERS.
   The owner or occupant of a house or structure located within the
jurisdictional area of the County Advisory Plan Commission shall post
officially assigned numbers in a location providing easy identification from
the abutting street or road. Such official number may be placed attached to the
mail box (as according to postal regulations) or on a post or outside light, or
on any prominent place on the house or structure so that the number is
identifiable, and it is recommended that such number be at least a minimum of
two inches in height.
(1982 Code, § 52.07) (Ord. passed 4-13-1987)
§ 152.08 RENUMBERING OF HOUSES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Houses and structures that were numbered prior to the effective date
of this chapter shall be renumbered in order that the same may comply with the
uniform numbering system and so that the numerical harmony throughout an area
or areas is substantially achieved.
   (B)   The County Advisory Plan Commission, as designated in this chapter,
shall authorize such changes.
(1982 Code, § 52.08) (Ord. passed 4-13-1987)
§ 152.09 NOTIFICATION OF LOCAL AGENCIES.
   The administrative office, shall provide a uniform system of notification of
the issuance of numbers or the renumbering of houses and structures.
Notification shall be made reasonably ahead of impending changes so as to allow
major interested groups and agencies to plan and to prepare for proposed
changes. The administrative office shall keep accurate records and shall, from
time to time, prepare and make available to the County Commissioners a report
of the status of the implementation of the uniform numbering system. In the
assignment of house numbers, the administrative office shall use its best
judgment and shall carefully consider and evaluate all contingencies and shall,
with due regard to the sensitive nature of the job assigned to it, be
considerate of the citizens of the county.
(1982 Code, § 52.09) (Ord. passed 4-13-1987)
APPENDIX A: NUMBERING SYSTEM MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b13e5f68cbdb84e4569995f611153b3ab513d249/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1442.png]
CHAPTER 153: PUBLIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN
Section
   
153.01   Title
   
153.02   Terminology
   
153.03   Map and report
   
153.04   Authority of the Public Development Plan
   
153.05   Reference to Master Plan
   
153.06   Amendments
   
153.07   Enforcement
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-9-2-5, I.C. 36-7-3-12 and I.C. 36-7-4-405
§ 153.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Public Development Plan for Wayne
County, Indiana”.
(1982 Code, § 51.01) (Ord. passed 10-30-1967; Ord. passed 1-14-1985)
§ 153.02 TERMINOLOGY.
   The terms PUBLIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN shall be considered synonymous with the
term MASTER PLAN wherever the latter appears directly or by reference in the
Acts of 1947, Ch. 174, as amended from time to time.
(1982 Code, § 51.02) (Ord. passed 10-30-1967; Ord. passed 1-14-1985)
§ 153.03 MAP AND REPORT.
   The Public Development Plan consists of a map entitled “Public Development
Plan for Wayne County, Indiana” designated as Exhibit “A” attached to the
ordinance codified herein and made apart hereof. Said map shows the locations
of existing and proposed streets and thoroughfares, schools and recreational
facilities. The map, and all ordinances amendatory thereof, shall be on file
for public display and examination during regular office hours of the County
Planning Department and shall be under the control and responsibility of the
Director and staff of the County Planning Department.
(1982 Code, § 51.03) (Ord. passed 10-30-1967; Ord. passed 1-14-1985)
§ 153.04 AUTHORITY OF THE PUBLIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners or other public body or public
utility within the unincorporated area of the county shall be guided by and
give consideration to the general policy and pattern of development set out in
the Public Development Plan in the authorization, construction, alteration or
abandonment of public ways, public places, public structures or public
utilities and the authorization, acceptance or construction of water mains,
sewers, connection facilities or utilities.
   (B)   Persons who own or are interested in any lots or parts of lots and
want to vacate all or part of a public way or public place in or contiguous to
those lots or parts of lots may file a petition for vacation with the Board of
County Commissioners on a prescribed form. Such petition shall be filed with
the Auditor to the Board of County Commissioners at its next regularly or
specially scheduled meeting.
      (1)   The petition for vacation must:
         (a)   State the circumstances of the case;
         (b)   Specifically describe the property proposed to be vacated; and
         (c)   Give the names and addresses of all owners of land that abuts
the proposed property to be vacated.
      (2)   Immediately upon its receipt of such petition, the Board of County
Commissioners shall submit same to the County Plan Commission for its
consideration and recommendation. A petition for vacation shall be deemed
received by the Board of County Commissioners when said petition is delivered
to them by the Auditor.
      (3)   No public way or public place shall be vacated or abandoned until
the County Plan Commission shall have first given notice and held public
hearing on any petition for vacation to determine if such vacation is in
conformity with the County Public Development Plan. The Plan Commission shall
promptly forward its recommendation to the Board of County Commissioners.
      (4)   The Board of County Commissioners shall hold a hearing on the
petition within 30 days after it is received from the Auditor. Said hearing
shall be subject to I.C. 5-14-1.5 (5-14-1.5-1 through 5-14-1.5-7).
      (5)   The Auditor of the county shall give notice of the petition and of
the time and place of the hearing by the Board of County Commissioners in a
manner prescribed in I.C. 5-3-1 (5-3-1-1 through 5-3-1-9) and by certified mail
to each owner of land that abuts the property to be proposed to be vacated. The
petitioner shall pay the expense of providing such notice which expense shall
be in addition to the fee required by division (B)(7) below.
      (6)   After hearing on the petition, the Board of County Commissioners
may, by ordinance, vacate the public way or public place; provided, however,
that the Board of County Commissioners shall not override the recommendation of
the Plan Commission unless done so by unanimous vote of said Board. The passage
of any such ordinance by the Board of County Commissioners to vacate any public
way or public place shall constitute an amendment to the Public Development
Plan. The Auditor shall furnish a copy of each vacation ordinance to the County
Recorder for recording. In addition, a copy of such ordinance shall be filed
with the Auditor and the County Surveyor.
      (7)   The Plan Commission shall charge a fee for the filing of such
petition for the purpose of covering the cost of checking, verifying and
advertising the proposed vacation. Such fee shall not be less than $25.
   (C)   The Board of County Commissioners or other party, who proposes
dedication or modification of a street or thoroughfare which is not subject to
a subdivision control ordinance of the county, shall submit proposals for
determining the lines for new, extended, widened or narrowed streets or
thoroughfares within the unincorporated area of the county to the Plan
Commission. The Plan Commission shall determine if such new or modified streets
or thoroughfares are in conformity with the Public Development Plan. The Plan
Commission shall forward its recommendation to the Board of County
Commissioners or other party. Said Board or other party shall not override the
recommendation of the Plan Commission unless done so by a unanimous vote of the
Board of County Commissioners, which action by said Board shall constitute an
amendment of the Public Development Plan. The Board or other person proposing
such dedication or modification shall be responsible for initiating a review of
the Plan Commission’s adverse recommendation by the Board of County
Commissioners by petition to that body.
   (D)   Within the unincorporated area of the county, a structure subject
hereto shall not be located and an improvement location permit for a structure
on platted or unplatted lands shall not be issued unless the structure and its
location conform to the Public Development Plan and Ch. 156 of this code of
ordinances. Such improvement location permit shall be issued by the Planning
Director of the county after the public body, board or other public utility
proposing to build such structure has submitted its proposed location for such
structure to the Plan Commission and said Plan Commission has determined that
the proposed location of such structure is in conformity with the Public
Development Plan.
   (E)   Persons who own or are interested in any lot or parts of lots and want
to name or rename all or part of a public way contiguous to those lots or parts
of lots may file a petition for the naming or renaming of a public way with the
Board of County Commissioners on a prescribed form.
      (1)   The petition for the naming or renaming of a public way must:
         (a)   State the present name of the public way, if established;
         (b)   State the proposed name to be adopted; and
         (c)   Briefly describe why such request is being made.
      (2)   Following receipt of such petition, the Board of County
Commissioners shall submit same to the County Plan Commission for its
consideration and recommendation.
      (3)   Following its receipt of the petition, the Plan Commission shall
hold a hearing on same. Notice of the petition and the time and place of the
hearing shall be given in the manner prescribed in I.C. 5-3-1 (5-3-1-1 through
5-3-1-9). The petitioner shall pay any costs of providing such notice. After
such hearing, the Plan Commission shall determine if the requested naming or
renaming of the public way is in conformity with the Public Development Plan
and that the new name requested is easy to understand so as to avoid
duplication or conflict with other names. The Plan Commission shall thereafter
forward its recommendation on the petition to the Board of County Commissioners
who shall then consider such recommendation. The County Commissioners shall
approve or deny such petition within 60 days thereafter. The Board of County
Commissioners may, by ordinance, thereupon name or rename the public way;
provided, however, that the Board of Commissioners shall not override the
recommendation of the Plan Commission unless done so by a unanimous vote of
said Board. If not acted upon within 60 days by the Commissioners, the petition
will be deemed approved.
      (4)   The Auditor shall furnish a copy of each such ordinance naming or
renaming a public way to the County Recorder for recording. In addition, a copy
of such ordinance shall be filed with the County Surveyor and the County
Auditor.
      (5)   This section shall not apply to the naming of streets or public
ways which is otherwise provided for in this chapter or Ch. 155 of this code of
ordinances. Petitions for the renaming of public ways shall be considered as
provided in this section.
(1982 Code, § 51.04) (Ord. passed 10-30-1967; Ord. passed 1-14-1985)
§ 153.05 REFERENCE TO MASTER PLAN.
   A report entitled “Comprehensive Master Plan Wayne County, Indiana, 1966”,
which sets forth information, policies, recommendations and source material
utilized in promulgating the Public Development Plan, shall be considered
advisory only and not a part of the Public Development Plan to be enforced
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(1982 Code, § 51.05) (Ord. passed 10-30-1967; Ord. passed 1-14-1985)
§ 153.06 AMENDMENTS.
   The Public Development Plan and this chapter shall be adopted in accordance
with the procedure set forth in §§ 37, 38, 39 and 40, Ch. 174, Acts of 1947;
except that, if the Board of County Commissioners desires an amendment, it may
direct the Plan Commission to prepare an amendment and submit it to public
hearing within 60 days after formal written notice by said Board.
(1982 Code, § 51.06) (Ord. passed 10-30-1967; Ord. passed 1-14-1985)
§ 153.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Plan Commission, Board of Zoning Appeals or any designated enforcement
official of the county may institute a suit for injunction in the Wayne Circuit
or Superior Court to restrain any individual, governmental unit, public body,
public board or other public entity to remove a structure erected in violation
of the provisions of this chapter.
(1982 Code, § 51.07) (Ord. passed 10-30-1967; Ord. passed 1-14-1985)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD HAZARD MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Statutory authorization
   
154.02   Findings of fact
   
154.03   Statement of purpose
   
154.04   Objectives
   
154.05   Definitions
   
154.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
154.07   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
154.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
154.09   Compliance
   
154.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.11   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
154.12   Interpretation
   
154.13   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
154.25   General standards
   
154.26   Specific standards
   
154.27   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
154.28   Critical facility
   
154.29   Standards for identified floodways
   
154.30   Standards for identified fringe
   
154.31   Standards for SFHAS without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes
   
154.32   Standards for flood-prone areas
Administration
   
154.45   Designation of Administrator; duties and responsibilities
   
154.46   Permit procedures
Variance Procedures
   
154.60   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
154.61   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
154.62   Variance procedures
   
154.63   Conditions for variances
   
154.64   Variance notification
   
154.65   Historic structure
   
154.66   Special conditions
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The state legislature has in I.C. 36-7-4 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Board of County Commissioners of Wayne County, Indiana does hereby adopt the
following floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the county are subject to periodic
inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which may adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately flood-proofed or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (F)   Make federal flood insurance available for structures and their
contents in the county by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in floodplains; and
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood- prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONES. Portions of the special flood hazard area in which the principal
source of flooding is runoff from rainfall, snowmelt or a combination of both.
In A ZONES, flood waters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not
a significant threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE,
Zones A1-A30, Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM. The definitions
are presented below.
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown.
      (2)   ZONES AE AND A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. (ZONE AE is on new and revised maps in place of ZONES
A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure with a floor area
400 square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be
used for human habitation and be designed to have minimal flood damage
potential. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports,
storage sheds, pole barns and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zones on the community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. Unstudied areas where flood hazards are undetermined, but flooding
is possible. Flood insurance is available in participating communities, but is
not required by regulation in this zone.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information. The ELEVATION CERTIFICATE is to be completed by a land
surveyor, engineer or architect who is authorized by law to certify elevation
information when elevation information is required. (Reference FEMA Form 086-0-
33.)
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community. Flood Insurance Study (FIS) is the official
hydraulic and hydrologic report provided by FEMA. The report contains flood
profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM (where applicable) and the water surface
elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD.)
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood, plus
two feet at any given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD.)
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGU- LATIONS. This chapter and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances and other applications of police power which control
development in flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state or local
regulations in any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing
and reducing flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also
referred to as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage
prevention ordinance and floodplain management requirements.
   FLOOD-PROOFING (DRY FLOOD- PROOFING). A method of protecting a structure
that ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is water-tight to the flood-proofed design elevation with walls
that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOOD-PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP (AS RELATED TO VARIANCES OF THIS CHAPTER). The exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The Board of
Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual and peculiar
to the property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not
exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an EXCEPTIONAL HARDSHIP. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition or any combination thereof. All renewal and new business
flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after 6-1-1997 will include
ICC COVERAGE.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six- month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR) and Letter of Map Revision based on Fill (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below.
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in
a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is
only issued by FEMA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations and elevations.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision
by letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support or basement entryway
immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars; and
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use as a dwelling with or
without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities,
including, but not limited to, plumbing, sanitation and electric. The structure
shall bear the label of a HUD manufactured home that indicates the home has
been inspected in accordance with the requirements of Housing and Urban
Development and is constructed in conformance with the federal manufactured
home constructions and safety standards in effect on the date of manufacture.
The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value) or adjusted
assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the Federal Government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929 is a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993 is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Any thing which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the State Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
154.07 of this chapter. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the terms BASE
FLOOD, 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations or ordinances that intended
to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in flood-
prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
county subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the county
are generally identified as such on the Wayne County, Indiana and Incorporated
Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated 4-2-2015 as well as any future updates,
amendments or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
with the most recent date. (These areas are shown on a FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1-
A30, AH, AR, A99 or AO.)
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued; provided, the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage
of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above-ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “repetitive loss”
or “substantial damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary or safety code requirements or any
alteration of a “historic structure”; provided that, the alteration will not
preclude the structures continued designation as a “historic structure”.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification or other evidence of compliance required in this
chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
SHADED X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). UNSHADED X ZONES (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See definition for A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities, but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(ZONE X is used on new and revised maps in place of ZONES B AND C.)
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the County Advisory Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood.
   (B)   The best available regulatory flood data is listed below.
      (1)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the County Advisory Plan Commission
shall be as delineated on the one-percent annual chance flood profiles in the
Flood Insurance Study of Wayne County, Indiana, and Incorporated Areas and the
corresponding Flood Insurance Rate Map dated 4-2-2015 as well as any future
updates, amendments or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency with the most recent date.
      (2)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the County Advisory Plan Commission,
delineated as an “A Zone” on the Wayne County, Indiana, and Incorporated Areas
Flood Insurance Rate Map dated 4-2-2015 as well as any future updates,
amendments or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
with the most recent date, shall be according to the best data available as
provided by the State Department of Natural Resources; provided, the upstream
drainage area from the subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a
party disagrees with the best available data, the party needs to replace
existing data with better data that meets current engineering standards. To be
considered, this data must be submitted to the State Department of Natural
Resources for review and subsequently approved.
      (3)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of
identification on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway and
fringe limits of any watercourse in the community’s known flood-prone areas
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the State
Department of Natural Resources; provided, the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile.
      (4)   Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   An improvement location permit, hereafter known as a “floodplain development
permit”, shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this chapter
prior to the commencement of any development activities in areas of special
flood hazard.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the
County Commissioners to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   (B)   (1)   However, this chapter does not repeal the original resolution or
ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in this program. This chapter is not
intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or
deed restrictions.
      (2)   However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.11 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the FEMA Flood Insurance Study (FIS) flood profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall be
considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.12 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit, nor repeal, any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.13 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the county, the State Department of Natural Resources
or the state, for any flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter
or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 154.25 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas, the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improve-ments shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improve-ments shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improve-ments shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps and other water- proofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.26 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   General. In addition to the requirements of §
154.25 of this chapter, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be
protected from flood damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement
applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land);
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage;
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure; and
      (7)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community’s first
floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential structures. New construction or substantial improvement of
any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor;
including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood
waters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
below.
   (C)   Non-residential structures. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or non-residential structure (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be
flood- proofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walk be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of flood waters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
division (D) below. Structures located in all “A Zones” may be flood- proofed
in lieu of being elevated if done in accordance with the following:
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
154.45(B)(12) of this chapter; and
      (2)   Flood-proofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
      (2)   Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
flood waters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls. Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings, (in addition to doorways and
windows), located in a minimum of two exterior walls (having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area);
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher;
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of flood waters in
both directions;
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms; and
         (f)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or non-residential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following.
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
      (2)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical (3:
1).
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements.
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a
flood.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not been
substantially damaged by a flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions);
or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes” as stated earlier
in this section.
   (G)   Accessory structures. Relief to the elevation or dry flood-proofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures. Such structures must meet
the following standards:
      (1)   Shall not be used for human habitation;
      (2)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
      (3)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of flood waters;
      (4)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or flood-proofed to or above the FPG; and
      (6)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters
to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as
required for elevated structures in division (D) above.
   (H)   Above-ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above-ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.27 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
   (G)   Developers shall record the 1% annual chance flood elevation on all
subdivision plats containing lands (identified elsewhere by this chapter)
within a flood hazard area prior to submitting the plats for approval by the
County Advisory Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.28 CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Flood-proofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into flood waters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.29 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
154.07 of this chapter, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an
extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters, which carry
debris, potential projectiles and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the State Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1, a permit for
construction in a floodway from the State Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving and the like undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of a non-substantial addition/ improvement to a residence
in a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the State Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval for the fill is required from the State Department of Natural
Resources.)
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or letter of authorization (when applicable) has been issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in
the floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit;
provided, the provisions contained in §
154.46 of this chapter have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot
be less restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by
the State Department of Natural Resources. However, a community’s more
restrictive regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed, which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, that will adversely affect the efficiency
of, or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This adverse affect is
defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at least
fifteen-hundredths of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory flood
elevation under the project condition to that under the natural or pre-floodway
condition as proven with hydraulic analyses.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees), the county shall submit the data and request that the Federal
Emergency Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping
standard regulations found at 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.30 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in §
154.46 of this chapter have been met. The key provision is that the top of the
lowest floor of any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or
above the FPG.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.31 STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS/FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the State Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment;
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the 1%
annual chance flood elevation and the recommended Flood Protection Grade has
been received from the State Department of Natural Resources; and
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the State Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in §
154.46 of this chapter have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site; and
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §
154.46 of this chapter have been met.
   (C)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the
regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot and shall not increase flood
damages or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.32 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD-PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood-prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per §
154.46 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.45 DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners of the county hereby appoints the
County Plan Director to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter
and is herein referred to as the “Floodplain Administrator”.
   (B)   (1)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
      (2)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the
permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and
complete substantial damage determinations;
         (c)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
State Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
154.29 and
154.31 of this chapter, and maintain a record of such authorization (either
copy of actual permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory
assessment);
         (d)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit;
         (e)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway;
         (f)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
         (g)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments, federal permit documents and “as-built” elevation and
flood-proofing data for all buildings constructed subject to this chapter;
         (h)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community;
         (i)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished;
         (j)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
         (k)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
154.46 of this chapter;
         (l)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed in accordance with §
154.46 of this chapter;
         (m)   1.   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
            2.   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the
owner of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work,
and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
         (n)   1.   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or
approval, issued under the provisions of the ordinance, in cases where there
has been any fake statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the
application or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
            2.   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.46 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities and the location
of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required.
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD 88) or National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD). In
either case, the conversion formula should be included;
         (f)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be flood-proofed. In either case, the conversion formula should
be included; and
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted
to DNR for approval and then to FEMA as a Letter of Map Revision. (See § 154.45
(B)(6) of this chapter for additional information.)
      (2)   Construction stage. Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an
elevated structure or structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of
the applicant to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
NAVD 88 or NGVD elevation of the lowest floor, as built. Said certification
shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered land
surveyor or professional engineer and certified by the same. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the lowest floor elevation survey data submitted.
The applicant shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any
further work is allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to
make said corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order
for the project. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation
certification shall be at the applicant’s risk.
Upon establishment of the flood-proofed elevation of a flood-proofed structure,
it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the Floodplain Administrator
a flood-proofing certificate. Certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a registered professional engineer and certified by same.
(The Floodplain Administrator shall review the flood- proofing certification
submitted.) The applicant shall correct any deficiencies detected by such
review before any further work is allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the
flood-proofing certification or failure to make correction required shall be
cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
      (3)   Finished construction. Upon completion of construction, an
elevation certification which depicts the “as-built” lowest floor elevation is
required to be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator. If the project
includes a flood-proofing measure, flood-proofing certification is required to
be submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 154.60 DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.61 DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any
requirement, decision or determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator
in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by
the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the County Circuit Court.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.62 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter, and:
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment of
transport of the flood waters at the site; and
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.63 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public or
conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
154.29 and
154.31 of this chapter may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
154.29 or
154.31 of this chapter will require a permit from the State Department of
Natural Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
154.26 of this chapter may be granted only when a new structure is to be
located on a lot contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures
constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the Flood Protection Grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation. (See §
154.64 of this chapter.)
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the State Department of Natural Resources upon request (See §
154.64 of this chapter.)
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.64 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the flood
protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases risks
to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.65 HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of “historic
structures” upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an “historic
structure” and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.66 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in this subchapter, and the
purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or
conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All
violations shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in
accordance with the provisions of Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances. All
violations shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and, therefore,
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the county from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2015-003, passed 3-18-2015)
CHAPTER 155: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Establishment of control
   
155.002   Other department clearances
   
155.003   Territorial limits of regulation
   
155.004   Technical Review Committee
   
155.005   Minimum standards; checklist requirements
   
155.006   Definitions
   
155.007   Modifications
   
155.008   Improvement location permits; fees
   
155.009   Secondary approval certificates
Subdivision Approval of Plats and Replats
   
155.020   Authority over plats
   
155.021   Standards for approval
   
155.022   Replats
Procedures
   
155.035   Application
   
155.036   Preliminary considerations
   
155.037   Comprehensive plan requirements
   
155.038   Design criteria
   
155.039   Street access, drainage, unsuitable contours
   
155.040   Documents required to be submitted on primary approval
   
155.041   Hearing
   
155.042   Rules
Plat Committee
   
155.055   General
   
155.056   Committee make-up
   
155.057   Committee quorum
   
155.058   Meetings
   
155.059   Power to act
Approvals
   
155.070   Primary approval; Plat Committee, Plan Commission
   
155.071   Appeals
   
155.072   Secondary approval; documents; procedures
Financial Responsibility; Bonding
   
155.085   Certificate of financial responsibility
   
155.086   Preliminary bond
   
155.087   Maintenance bond for streets
General Principles of Design; Minimum Requirements for Layout
   
155.100   General requirements
   
155.101   Street layout requirements
   
155.102   Block layout requirements
   
155.103   Lots
   
155.104   Easements
   
155.105   Building setback lines
   
155.106   Public open spaces
   
155.107   Natural surface drainage
Minimum Standards of Improvements
   
155.120   General conformance requirements
   
155.121   Monuments and markers
   
155.122   Streets
   
155.123   Sewers
   
155.124   Septic system
   
155.125   Water
   
155.126   Storm drainage
Streets and Roadways
   
155.140   Minimum right-of-way widths for streets, alleys, easements for
utilities
   
155.141   Minimum pavement widths
   
155.142   Street grades, curves and sight distances
   
155.143   Intersections
   
155.144   Curb and gutter
   
155.145   Dead-end streets; culs-de-sac
Off-Street Improvements
   
155.160   Sidewalks
   
155.161   Street signs
   
155.162   Street trees
   
155.163   Unpaved area
   
155.164   Street plans
Street Construction; Minimum Standards
   
155.175   Inspection
   
155.176   Intent
   
155.177   Special provisions
   
155.178   Street construction inspection
   
155.179   Pavement design
   
155.180   Drainage structures
   
155.181   Street construction
   
155.182   Cement concrete pavements
   
155.183   Hot asphaltic concrete pavements
   
155.184   Curbs and gutters
   
155.185   Cement concrete sidewalks
   
155.186   Finishing shoulders, ditches and slopes
   
155.187   Street signs
Variances
   
155.200   Variance in plat
   
155.201   Conditions to variance
   
155.202   Notation of variance
   
155.203   Variance after platting
   
Appendix A: Images
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 ESTABLISHMENT OF CONTROL.
   No plat or replat of a subdivision of land located within the jurisdiction
of the County Plan Commission shall be filed with the County Auditor, and the
County Recorder shall not record same, unless it has first received secondary
approval by the County Plan Commission, and such approval shall have been
entered in writing on said plat by the Secretary of said Commission and further
evidenced by affirming the Commission’s seal upon the plat.
(1982 Code, § 55.01) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.002 OTHER DEPARTMENT CLEARANCES.
   The County Plan Commission shall not approve said plat or replat until the
requirements of the following officials have been satisfied: Health Officer;
Surveyor; Soil Conservationist; Board of Commissioners; and County Highway
Engineer.
(1982 Code, § 55.02) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.003 TERRITORIAL LIMITS OF REGULATIONS.
   The rules and regulations governing plat and subdivisions of land contained
herein shall apply within all of the unincorporated areas of the county, unless
by proper ordinance, an area of jurisdiction has been granted to a municipal or
town plan commission.
(1982 Code, § 55.03) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.004 TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   The Plan Commission shall establish this committee to review the application
for technical conformity with the standards of this chapter, when requested by
the Plan Commission, Plat Committee or Plan Commission staff. They shall send
their comments to the pertinent hearing. Such comments are not necessary for
action to be taken on a subdivision.
(1982 Code, § 55.04) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.005 MINIMUM STANDARDS; CHECKLIST REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   There is hereby established a list of minimum standards that have
heretofore been established by the Plan Commission and by the Board of Zoning
Appeals as conditions for passage of a subdivision.
   (B)   These conditions must be contained in the subdivision to which they
are applicable, and a checklist will be submitted by the developer, along with
each plat, showing that these documents have been prepared, cleared by the
respective departments and are included in the plat materials.
   (C)   This checklist may be supplemented from time to time by conditions
imposed by the Technical Review Committee, the compliance to which will also be
submitted along with the plat and made a part of the report to the Plat
Committee, or the Plan Commission, upon submission for secondary approval.
(1982 Code, § 55.06) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.006 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense include the future tense; the singular number shall
include the plural and the singular; and the word “shall” is always mandatory
and not discretionary.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line on a plat between which line and the street
line of a lot or block buildings may not be erected.
   COMMISSION. The County Plan Commission.
   COUNTY HIGHWAY ENGINEER. The County Highway Engineer.
   COUNTY HIGHWAY SUPERVISOR. The County Highway Supervisor.
   HMA. Hot mix asphalt.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line along the
street right-of-way and the rear lot line, measured within the lot boundaries.
   NEW STREET. Any street constructed to county specifications and in
accordance with this chapter to be built as part of the proposed subdivision.
   PARCEL. A segment of land.
   PLANNING DIRECTOR. The head of the staff of the County Plan Commission.
   PLAT.
      (1)   A map or drawing on which the subdivider’s plan of a subdivision is
shown, which is presented for approval.
      (2)   The FINAL PLAT is the map or drawing which is intended to be filed
for record and which meets the requirements of §
155.072(A) of this chapter.
   RECORD OF TRANSFER. The record as it appears in the records of Recorder of
the county.
   ROADBED. The portion of the right-of-way between the outside shoulder lines
or curb faces.
   ROADWAY. The paved area of the right-of-way, including all curb and gutter
facilities.
   SHOULDERS. The portion of the roadbed not covered by the pavement.
   STREET.
      (1)   A right-of-way dedicated to the public use, which affords the
principal means of access to abutting property.
      (2)   A STREET may be designated as a highway, thoroughfare, parkway,
boulevard, road, avenue, land, drive, place, cul-de-sac or other appropriate
name.
      (3)   A STREET may also be identified, according to type of use, as
follows.
         (a)   COLLECTOR STREETS are those streets which carry traffic from
minor streets to primary or secondary thoroughfares, including access streets
to neighborhoods or sub-neighborhoods and afford traffic circulation within
such neighborhoods or sub-neighborhoods.
         (b)   CUL-DE-SACS are minor streets having only one end open to
traffic and being permanently terminated at the other end by a vehicle turn-
around.
         (c)   FRONTAGE ACCESS STREETS are minor streets which are parallel to
and adjacent to principal thoroughfares and which provide access to abutting
properties and protection from through traffic.
         (d)   MINOR STREETS are those streets which are used exclusively or
principally for access to abutting properties.
         (e)   PARKWAYS are those streets so designated in the Major Highway
Plan.
         (f)   PRIMARY THOROUGHFARES are those streets so designated in the
Major Highway Plan.
         (g)   SECONDARY THOROUGH-FARES are those streets so designated in the
Major Highway Plan.
   SUBDIVISION. See definition in Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances, which is
controlling in this chapter also.
(1982 Code, § 55.10) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.007 MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The general principles of design and the minimum requirements for the
laying out of subdivisions may be varied by the Commission at the time of
platting in the case of a subdivision large enough, 50 lots or more, to
constitute a more or less self-contained neighborhood to be developed in
accordance with a comprehensive plan safeguarded by appropriate restrictions,
which, in the judgment of the Commission, make adequate provision for all
essential community requirements; provided, however, that, no modification
shall be granted by the Commission which would conflict with the proposals of
the Major Highway Plan, or with other features of the Master Plan, or with the
intent and purpose of the general principles of design and all other variances
by Board of Zoning Appeals’ minimum requirements herein.
   (B)   In granting modifications, the Plan Commission may require such
conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the
standards or requirements so modified.
   (C)   Any modification thus granted shall be entered in the minutes of the
Commission, setting forth the reasons which, in the opinion of the Commission,
justified the modification.
(1982 Code, § 55.160) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.008 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS; FEES.
   (A)   Temporary permit model home.
      (1)   Whenever a subdivision has received primary approval by the Plan
Commission, the Commission may authorize the issuance of temporary building
permits for the construction of two model homes to be used for display only.
      (2)   There shall not be any residential use of the model homes until the
plat of the subdivision has received secondary approval by the Commission.
(1982 Code, § 55.181)
   (B)   Fees. Certification that a fee has been paid to the General Fund,
which shall be $25, plus $5 for each lot, sub-lot or parcel of land.
(1982 Code, § 55.182)
(Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.009 SECONDARY APPROVAL CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   The Plan Director may issue a secondary approval certificate as
follows.
      (1)   Certificates of approval by the appropriate public officials and
also by public utility officials, concerning the satisfactory completion of
improvements within their respective jurisdiction, shall be on file when
required.
      (2)   Certificate of approval by the County Attorney, as to dedication of
streets or roads and any covenants or restrictions therein, shall be on file
when required.
      (3)   A certificate by the County Treasurer, to the effect that there are
no unpaid taxes or unpaid special assessments on any of the land included in
the subdivision, shall be on file when required.
      (4)   Each secondary plat, submitted to the Commission for approval,
shall carry a certificate signed by a registered professional engineer or land
surveyor in substantially the following form:
 
I,                                    , hereby certify that I am a professional engineer, (or land surveyor), licensed in compliance
with the laws of the State of Indiana; that this plat correctly represents a survey completed by me on
                                                             ; that all the monuments shown thereon actually exist; and that their
location, size, type and material are accurately shown.
(SEAL)
                                                               
Signature
 
   (B)   Each secondary plat submitted to the Commission for approval shall
carry a deed of dedication in substantially the following form:
 
We, the undersigned,                                                  , owners of the real estate shown and described herein,
do hereby certify that we have laid off, platted and subdivided, and hereby lay off, plat and subdivide, said real estate in
accordance with the within plat.
This subdivision shall be known and designated as                                        , an addition to
                          . All streets and alleys shown and not heretofore dedicated are hereby dedicated to the public.
Front yard building set back lines are hereby established as shown on this plat, between which lines and the property lines of
the street, there shall be erected or maintained no building or structure.
There are strips of ground               feet in width as shown on this plat and marked, “Easement”, reserved for the use of
public utilities for the installation of water, gas and sewer mains, poles, ducts, lines and wires, subject at all times to
the proper authorities and to the easement herein reserved. No permanent buildings or other structures are to be erected or
maintained upon said strips of land, but owners of lots in this subdivision shall take their titles subject to the rights of
the public utilities. No pipe, tile or any other obstruction shall be placed in any street drain side ditch without written
approval of the County Highway Department.
(Additional dedications and protective covenants, on private restrictions, would be inserted here upon the subdivider’s
initiative or the recommendation of the Commission or listed on separate sheets and referred to in this deed of dedication
giving date, book and page location of said separate covenants; important provisions are those in the case of residential use,
the minimum habitable floor area.)
The foregoing covenants (or restrictions) are to run with the land and shall be binding on all parties and all persons
claiming under them until January                ,             , (a 25-year period is suggested), at which time said covenants
(or restrictions) shall be automatically extended for successive periods of ten years, unless changed by vote of a majority of
the then owners of the building sites covered by these covenants (or restrictions), which shall remain in full force and
effect.
The right to enforce these provisions by injunction, together with the right to cause the removal, by due process of law, of
any structure or part thereof, erected or maintained in violation hereof, is hereby dedicated to the public, and reserved to
the several owners of the several lots in this subdivision and to their heirs and assigns.
Witness our hands and seals this               day of                             ,             .
State of Indiana
County of Wayne
   Before me the undersigned notary public, in and for the County and State, personally appeared                           ,
             , and each separately and severally acknowledge the execution of the foregoing instrument as his or her voluntary
act and deed for the purpose therein expressed. Witness my hand and Notarial Seal this                  day of
                         ,               .
                                                               
   Notary Public
 
   (C)   The following shall be attached for certification by the Commission:
 
Under authority provided by I.C. 36-7-04, enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana, and all acts amendatory thereof, and an ordinance adopted by the Wayne County Board
of Commissioners, this plat was given secondary approval by the Wayne County Plan Commission as follows:
                                                                                           
Secondary approval, granted by the Wayne County Plan Commission at a meeting held                 .
                                                                   
Secretary
 
(1982 Code, § 55.190) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
SUBDIVISION APPROVAL OF
PLATS AND REPLATS
§ 155.020 AUTHORITY OVER PLATS.
   The County Plan Commission or Plat Committee have exclusive control over the
approval of plats and replats, of subdivisions involving unincorporated lands
in the county, under its jurisdiction.
(1982 Code, § 55.20) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.021 STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   In determining whether to grant primary approval of a plat, the Plan
Commission shall determine if the plat or subdivision qualifies for primary
approval under the standards prescribed in the subdivision regulations in the
following areas:
      (1)   Minimum width, depth and area of the lots in the subdivision;
      (2)   Public way widths, grades, curves and the coordination of
subdivision public ways with current and planned public ways;
      (3)   The extension of water, sewer and other municipal services;
      (4)   Fair allocations of areas for streets, parks, schools, public and
semi-public buildings, homes, utilities, business and industry; and
      (5)   Any approval must meet the standards prescribed in Ch. 156 of this
code of ordinances for a similar use.
   (B)   As a condition of primary approval of a plat, the Commission may
specify:
      (1)   The manner in which public ways shall be laid out, graded and
improved;
      (2)   Provisions for water, sewage and other utility services;
      (3)   Provisions for lot size, number and location;
      (4)   Provisions for drainage design; and
      (5)   Provisions for other services as specified in the Subdivision
Regulations.
(1982 Code, § 55.21) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.022 REPLAT.
   (A)   A replat of an approved or recorded subdivision plat shall be required
for any change in said plat, if such change affects a street layout, any lot
line or an area reserved for public use. The transfer between adjoining
property owners that does not create any additional building lot shall not
require a replat.
   (B)   All of the owners of the land in the plat proposed for the replat must
acknowledge in a written document that they are a part of the requested plat.
   (C)   A replat request must be approved by the Plan Commission utilizing the
same procedure, rules and regulations as for subdivision approval.
(1982 Code, § 55.22) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
PROCEDURES
§ 155.035 APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring the approval of a plat shall submit an application for
approval on forms provided by the Planning Department staff.
(1982 Code, § 55.30) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.036 PRELIMINARY CONSIDERATIONS.
   In order to make the most of the opportunities related to the subdivision
and to conserve time, effort and expense, the owner or subdivider shall consult
with the Planning Director or staff prior to the preparation of the tentative
plan of the subdivision. The need for sanitation, water supply, drainage and
public utilities, in relationship to other developments, existing and proposed
in the vicinity, should be determined in advance of preparation of the
subdivision plan. Consultation should also be held with those familiar with the
economic factors affecting the subdivision.
(1982 Code, § 55.31) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.037 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Comprehensive Plan should be reviewed to determine how the
proposed plan is to be coordinated with said Master Plan, with particular
attention given to matters enumerated in I.C. 36-7-4-600, State General
Assembly.
   (B)   The owner or developer shall determine that his or her subdivision
provides for the following:
      (1)   Coordination of subdivision streets with existing and planned
streets or highways;
      (2)   Coordination with and extension of facilities included in the
Master Plan;
      (3)   Establishment of minimum width, depth and area of lots within the
projected subdivisions as set forth in zoning and improvement location permit
regulations;
      (4)   Distribution of population and traffic in a manner tending to
create conditions favorable to health, safety, convenience and the harmonious
development of the county; and
      (5)   Fair allocations of areas for streets, parks, schools, public and
semi-public buildings, home utilities, business and industry as outlined by the
Master Plan.
(1982 Code, § 55.32) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.038 DESIGN CRITERIA.
   The developer shall also determine that his or her subdivision meets the
design criteria required by the Commission, including the manner in which
streets shall be laid out, graded and improved, and that he or she has made the
required or adequate provisions for water, sewage, other utility service,
schools, essential municipal services and recreation facilities.
(1982 Code, § 55.33) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.039 STREET ACCESS, DRAINAGE, UNSUITABLE CONTOURS.
   No land shall be approved for a subdivision unless adequate access to the
land over improved streets or thoroughfares exists or will be provided by the
subdivider; or, if the land is subject to period flooding, lies below the
designated floodcrest elevation level; or if it is otherwise considered by the
Commission to be unsuitable for urban development by reason of improper
drainage, objectionable earth and rock formation, steep slopes or any other
feature that may be harmful to the health and safety of possible residents or
the county as a whole.
(1982 Code, § 55.34) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.040 DOCUMENTS REQUIRED TO BE SUBMITTED ON PRIMARY APPROVAL.
   Documents to be submitted for primary approval are as follows.
   (A)   For minor subdivision.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit six copies of preliminary plat of the
proposed subdivision, drawn to a scale of 100 feet to one inch.
      (2)   This preliminary plat does not require the precise detail of a plat
for secondary approval, but shall include the following:
         (a)   Proposed name of the subdivision;
         (b)   A legal description of the subdivision;
         (c)   Name and address of the surveyor or engineer who prepared the
preliminary plat;
         (d)   Layout of lots showing numbers, dimensions, areas and building
setback lines;
         (e)   Right-of-way adjacent to the subdivision showing name, existing
and proposed width of right-of-way, type and width of pavement;
         (f)   Proposed entrance to lots with sight distance;
         (g)   Easements, existing or proposed;
         (h)   Soil types;
         (i)   Drainage pattern to and from subdivision;
         (j)   Any information deemed necessary; and
         (k)   Names of adjoining property owners.
   (B)   For major subdivision. Note: six copies of the following information
and plans shall be submitted:
      (1)   A location map is required showing the following:
         (a)   Subdivision name and location (not duplicating the name of any
plat heretofore recorded in the area under the jurisdiction of the Commission);
         (b)   Thoroughfares related to the subdivision;
         (c)   Public transportation lines;
         (d)   Main shopping center;
         (e)   Community or neighborhood stores;
         (f)   Elementary and high schools, including locations of those
proposed in the Master Plan;
         (g)   Parks and playgrounds, including locations of those proposed in
the Master Plan;
         (h)   Zoning district boundaries and districts in the area;
         (i)   Other community features; and
         (j)   Title, scale, north point and date of preparation.
      (3)   A site map showing the following shall be submitted: topographic
data in the following forms, which shall be determined by the Planning Director
during preliminary consideration of the plan:
         (a)   A contour map with vertical intervals of at least two feet if
the general slope of the site is less than 10%, and vertical intervals of five
feet if the general slope is greater than 10%. U.S. Geological Survey
(U.S.G.S.) topographic data may be used in the preparation of the preliminary
plan, unless the Commission requires a topographic survey, in which case
topographic data shall refer to U.S.G.S. North American Datum - Mean Seal Level
Elevation;
         (b)   Watercourses, marshes, rock outcrops, wooded areas and other
natural or human-made features which would affect the plan of subdivision in
detail satisfactory to the Commission;
         (c)   Tract boundary lines: showing dimensions, bearings, angles and
references to section, township and range lines or recorded corners;
         (d)   Streets and right-of-way on or adjoining the site to a distance
of not less than 150 feet from site boundaries, including dedicated right-of-
way widths, roadway widths, approximate gradients, types and widths of
pavements, curbs, sidewalks, tree planting and other pertinent data;
         (e)   Easements; locations, widths and purposes;
         (f)   Utilities, including sanitary and storm sewer, other drainage
facilities, water lines, gas mains, electric utilities and other facilities,
including size or capacity of each and the location of or distance to each
utility indicated;
         (g)   Zoning of the site and adjoining property;
         (h)   Existing or proposed platting of adjacent land;
         (i)   Other features or conditions which would effect the subdivision
either favorably or adversely; and
         (j)   Title, scale, north point and date.
      (4)   A preliminary plan of the subdivision, drawn to a scale of a
minimum of 100 feet to one inch; except that, when the drawing at that scale
requires more than one sheet, a scale recommended by the Planning Director may
be used. All plats shall be drawn on a sheet(s) 24 by 36 inches in size. The
preliminary plan shall show:
         (a)   Proposed name of the subdivision;
         (b)   Names and addresses of owner and subdivider and the engineer or
surveyor who prepared the plans;
         (c)   Street pattern showing the names (which shall not duplicate
names of other streets in the county) and widths of right-of-way of streets,
and widths of crosswalks, easements and alleys;
         (d)   Layout of lots showing dimensions, areas and numbers;
         (e)   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for
schools, parks, playgrounds or other public, semi-public or community purposes;
         (f)   Building setback or front yard lines;
         (g)   Key plan, legend and notes; and
         (h)   Scale, north point and date. Note: the plan and information
called for herein may be submitted on one or more sheets or maps, but shall be
of the size required hereunder.
      (5)   Certification or other evidence of approval by the County Health
Officer of the proposed plans in respect to the proposed means of sewage
disposal and the size of lots;
      (6)   A true copy of the proposed protective covenants or private
restrictions, if any, to be incorporated in the plat of the subdivision; and
      (7)   Information as to any agreements which have been entered into with
the owners of other property within the neighborhood in which the proposed
subdivision is located, as to general plans for the entire neighborhood.
(References should be made to the Master Plan for suggestions as to the general
street pattern and design of the neighborhood.)
(1982 Code, § 55.35) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.041 HEARING.
   (A)   After the staff has announced a date for a hearing before the Plan
Commission, it shall:
      (1)   Notify the applicant in writing;
      (2)   Give notice of the hearing by publication in accord with I.C. 5-3-
1; and
      (3)   Provide due notice to interested parties at least ten days before
the date set for the hearing.
   (B)   The public hearing will be conducted as outlined in the Rules of
Procedure for the Plan Commission.
(1982 Code, § 55.36) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.042 RULES.
   The Plan Commission shall, from time to time, establish rules for procedure,
such as the process of hearings, notice and the like, which will be governing
and will control all hearings of the Commission.
(1982 Code, § 55.37) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
PLAT COMMITTEE
§ 155.055 GENERAL.
   The Plan Commission hereby appoints a Plat Committee to hold hearings on
matters delegated to it on behalf of the Plan Commission.
(1982 Code, § 55.40) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.056 COMMITTEE MAKE-UP.
   (A)   The Plat Committee shall consist of three or five persons, with at
least one of the members being a member of the Plan Commission.
   (B)   The appointment of a member of the Plat Committee is for a term of one
year, but the Commission may remove a member from the Committee.
      (1)   The Commission must mail notice of the removal, along with written
reasons for the removal.
      (2)   A member who is removed may not appeal the removal to a court or
otherwise.
(1982 Code, § 55.41) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.057 COMMITTEE QUORUM.
   The Plat Committee may take action only by a majority vote of Committee
members.
(1982 Code, § 55.42) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.058 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Plat Committee meetings shall be scheduled by the Plan Director or
planning staff as needed to review and conduct hearings on behalf of the Plan
Commission.
   (B)   All meetings shall be open to the public.
(1982 Code, § 55.43) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.059 POWER TO ACT.
   The Plat Committee has the power to act in the following matters: a minor
subdivision of land that does not involve the opening of a new public way and
that complies in all other respects with this chapter and Ch. 156 of this code
of ordinances may be granted primary approval by the Plat Committee without
public notice and hearing, subject to appeal to the Plan Commission.
(1982 Code, § 55.44) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
APPROVALS
§ 155.070 PRIMARY APPROVAL; PLAT COMMITTEE, PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Minor subdivision.
      (1)   Review of application. For minor subdivision that does not involve
the opening of new way:
         (a)   The Planning Department staff shall review the application for
technical conformity with the standards fixed in the subdivision regulations;
         (b)   Within 30 days after receipt of the application, the Plat
Committee shall review the application and grant primary approval or deny
primary approval; and
         (c)   Within ten days after primary approval or denial, the Planning
Department staff shall provide for due notice to interested parties of their
right to appeal to the Plan Commission the primary approval or disapproval of
the plat, or the imposition of a condition on primary approval by the Plat
Committee.
      (2)   Appeals procedure.
         (a)   An applicant or other interested party may appeal to the Plan
Commission the primary approval or disapproval of a plat, or the imposition of
a condition on primary approval by the Plat Committee.
         (b)   A notice of appeal must be filed with the Plan Commission within
ten days after a copy of the action of the Plat Committee is mailed to the
interested party or applicant.
         (c)   If an appeal is filed, notices shall be given and a public
hearing held by the Plan Commission in the same manner as outlined in division
(B) below.
(1982 Code, § 55.50)
   (B)   Major subdivision.
      (1)   Review of application.
         (a)   The Planning Department staff shall review the application for
technical conformity with the standards fixed in this chapter.
         (b)   Within 30 days after receipt of the application, the Planning
Department staff shall announce the date of a hearing before the Plan
Commission.
         (c)   The Planning Department staff shall transmit the plat and
construction plans to appropriate agencies (utilities, government agencies and
the like) as deemed necessary for review and comment. The staff shall request
that a report be returned within 15 days after receipt of the request.
      (2)   Primary approval.
         (a)   If, after the public hearing, the Plan Commission determines
that the application and plat comply with the requirements in this chapter, it
shall make written findings and a decision granting primary approval to the
plat.
         (b)   If, after the public hearing, the Plan Commission disapproves
the plat, it shall make written findings that set forth its reasons and a
decision denying primary approval and shall provide the applicant with a copy.
         (c)   Any decision must be signed by the Plan Commission Secretary.
         (d)   The Plan Commission has the power to approve, disapprove or
impose conditions on the approval of plats.
         (e)   The primary approval by the Plan Commission of a plat must be
certified on behalf of the Commission by the Plan Commission Secretary.
         (f)   Primary approval of a plat shall be effective for a period of 12
months, unless, upon request of the applicant, the Commission grants an
extension.
(1982 Code, § 55.51)
(Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.071 APPEALS.
   (A)   The primary approval of a plat by the Plan Commission or the
imposition of a condition on primary approval is a final decision of the Plan
Commission that may be reviewed by certiorari.
   (B)   Said appeal for review shall be presented to the Circuit or Superior
Courts of the county within 30 days after the date of the decision of the Plan
Commission.
(1982 Code, § 55.52) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.072 SECONDARY APPROVAL; DOCUMENTS; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Documents to be submitted.
      (1)   Engineering plans and any other prerequisites established on
primary approval showing the following information:
         (a)   Profiles, typical cross-sections and specifications for proposed
street improvements; and
         (b)   Profiles and other explanatory data concerning the installation
of sanitary and storm sewage systems and water distribution system, including
elevations, minimum lengths and sizes of all culverts, pipes, drop inlets, head
walls and other drainage information.
      (2)   A plat submitted for secondary approval shall meet the following
specifications.
         (a)   The original drawing of the secondary plat of the subdivision
shall be drawn to a scale of 100 feet to one inch. The secondary plat shall be
drawn on a sheet 24 by 36 inches in size and if the resulting drawing would be
over 24 by 36 inches in size, it may be submitted on more than one sheet. The
original drawing of one transparency print and three line prints of the
secondary plat and all required signed certifications of approval shall be
submitted to the Commission.
         (b)   Plat requirements for minor subdivision may include all or parts
of the documents spelled out for a major subdivision. Prior to preparation of a
plat for secondary approval, the developer shall confer with the Planning
Department staff to determine what the minimum requirements are.
      (3)   The following basic information shall be shown:
         (a)   All plat boundary lines with lengths of courses to hundredths of
a foot and bearings to half minutes - these boundaries to be determined by an
accurate survey in the field which shall be balanced and closed with an error
of closure not to exceed one foot in 10,000 feet;
         (b)   The exact location and width along the property line of all
existing recorded streets intersecting or paralleling the boundaries of the
tract;
         (c)   Accurate distances and directions to the nearest street corners
or official monuments. Reference corners shall be accurately described on a
plan. Each plat shall show bearing and distance to two monumented and
referenced sections or quarter section corners and show the origin of the
bearing of the lines. There shall be sufficient information on the plat to
permit, in the future, accurate relocation of all property corners and street
lines;
         (d)   Accurate metes and bounds description of the boundary;
         (e)   The accurate location and type of material of all permanent
referenced monuments;
         (f)   Source of title to the land as shown by the books of the County
Recorder:
            1.   Description of title as shown on Auditor’s transfer books; and
            2.   If more than one owner, statement of proper division of owners
of separate lots as they shall be entered on Auditor’s transfer books.
         (g)   The exact layout, including:
            1.   Street and alley lines with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths of feet; their name, bearings, angles of intersection and widths
(including widths along the line of any obliquely-intersecting street);
            2.   The length of all arcs-radii, points of curvature and tangent
bearings;
            3.   All easements, when provided for or owned by public services
(with the limitation of the easement rights definitely stated on the plat); and
            4.   All lot lines with dimensions in feet and hundredths and with
bearings and angles to minutes, if other than right angles to the street and
alley lines.
         (h)   Lots and blocks numbered in numerical order;
         (i)   The accurate outline and dimensions of all property:
            1.   Which is offered for dedication for public use, and of all
property which may be reserved for acquisition by a public agency for such use
of; and
            2.   Which may be reserved by covenant in the deeds for the common
use of the property owners in the subdivision, with the purpose indicated
thereon.
         (j)   In case the subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, channel,
stream or creek, the present and any prior locations of such watercourse,
channel, stream or creek;
         (k)   Building setback lines as fixed by
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances and any other setback lines or street lines
established by public authority, and those stipulated in the deed restrictions;
         (l)   Private restrictions, if any:
            1.   Boundaries of each type of use restrictions; and
            2.   Other private restrictions for each definitely restricted
section of the subdivision.
         (m)   Name of the subdivision and name and number of the largest
subdivision or tract of which the tract being subdivided forms a part;
         (n)   Names and locations of adjoining subdivisions and location and
ownership of adjoining unsubdivided property;
         (o)   Names and addresses of the owner of record, the subdivider and
the engineer or surveyor who prepared the plat;
         (p)   North point, scale (numerical or graphic) and date;
         (q)   Statement that any lot transferred will have a width and area
the same as those shown on the plat;
         (r)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or surveyor
to the effect that:
            1.   The plat represents a survey made by him or her and that all
monuments indicated thereon actually exist and their location, size and
material are correctly shown; and
            2.   All requirements of this chapter have been fully complied
with.
         (s)   A certificate by the owner of the land in substantially the
following form: “As owner, I hereby certify that I caused the land described on
this plat to be surveyed, divided, mapped and dedicated as represented on the
plan.” This certificate shall be executed as a conveyance is executed;
         (t)   A certificate issued by the County Treasurer to the effect that
there are no unpaid special assessments on any of the land included in the
plat;
         (u)   Certificate of dedication of street and of other properties
offered for dedication for public uses; and
         (v)   Certificates for approval by the Commission.
(1982 Code, § 55.53)
   (B)   Secondary approval procedure.
      (1)   The Plan Commission has authority to grant secondary approval on
all major plats or delegate to the Plat Committee authority to grant such
approval.
      (2)   The Plat Committee shall have authority to grant secondary approval
on minor plats and any other matters delegated to it by the Plan Commission.
      (3)   Secondary approval of a plat may be granted, after expiration of
the time period for appeal of primary approval.
      (4)   Secondary approval does not require not ices or public hearing.
      (5)   Secondary approval request must be submitted by the petitioner to
the Plan Department.
      (6)   Secondary approval may include all or only part of the primary
approved plat; submission of a plat for secondary approval covering a portion
of the area contained in the primary approved plat may be permitted only after
consideration of the effect of the continuity of roads, utilities and services.
      (7)   When secondary approval of a plat is granted, the plat shall be
certified and signed by the President and Secretary of the Plan Commission and
the Commission seal shall be affixed to the plat.
      (8)   Secondary approval shall be void unless the plat is properly
recorded in the office of the County Recorder within 12 months after approval.
This time limit may be extended by the Plan Commission upon written request of
the subdivider.
      (9)   The filing and recording of the plat is without legal effect unless
secondary approval is granted by the Plan Commission or Plat Committee.
(1982 Code, § 55.54)
(Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY; BONDING
§ 155.085 CERTIFICATE OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   In submitting the secondary plat to the Commission, it shall be accompanied
by a certificate from the Board of County Commissioners stating that there has
been filed with and approved by that body, one of the following: a certificate
by the Developer's Engineer/Surveyor that all improvements and installations to
the subdivision required by §§
155.120 through
155.126 and
155.160 through
155.160 have been made or installed in accordance with specifications.
(1982 Code, § 55.60) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001; Ord. 2023-
006, passed 7-26-2023)
§ 155.086 PRELIMINARY BOND.
   If the installation is not completed, the developer may be allowed to
proceed by posting a bond which shall:
   (A)   Run to the County Board of Commissioners;
   (B)   Be in an amount determined by the Commission to be sufficient to
complete the improvements and installations in compliance with this chapter;
   (C)   Be with surety satisfactory to the Commission;
   (D)   Specify the time for completion of the improvements and installations;
and
   (E)   (1)   If improvements are not completed within a period of time
established by the bond, the surety company shall be responsible for the
completion of the work within the next 12 months.
      (2)   The subdivider shall have the option of either of the following
courses of action in lieu of providing the bond as specified in §
155.086 of this chapter.
         (a)   The subdivider may deposit cash money with the County Auditor in
the amount of the bond. In this event, the subdivider shall be entitled to
receive progress payments of not more than 90% of the value of any work
completed; provided, however, that, all such work completed shall have been
inspected and approved by the appropriate county officials. The remaining 10%
of the cash deposit over and above the 90% progress payments shall be retained
by the County Auditor for a period of three years from the date of final
approval of the improvements and can be used to repair any defects in
workmanship or materials which might develop in such improvements; provided,
however, that such 10% of the deposit money shall be paid to the subdivider
upon filing of the maintenance bond required by §
155.087 of this chapter. Any payments or release of funds by the County Auditor
shall be made only upon receipt of an approval certificate signed by the
President of the Board of Commissioners and attested by its Secretary.
         (b)   The subdivider may file bonds obtained by the contractors who
are to perform the several phases of the work to be performed in installing the
improvements; provided that, the amounts of such bonds are in amounts
satisfactory to the County Board of Commissioners for the particular work to be
done; and, provided further that, if several bonds are filed as provided in
this section, all such bonds shall have a common surety.
(1982 Code, § 55.61) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.087 MAINTENANCE BOND FOR STREETS.
   (A)   The approval of a secondary plat by the Commission shall not be deemed
to be an acceptance of the dedication of any public street, road or highway
offered for dedication in such plat.
   (B)   Before the acceptance of any street, sidewalk, curb and gutter, sewer
or other improvement, the subdivider shall furnish a three-year maintenance
bond covering such improvements which shall:
      (1)   Run to the County Board of Commissioners in an amount equal to 25%
of the cost of said improvements as estimated by the applicant and approved by
the Board;
      (2)   Provide surety satisfactory to the Board;
      (3)   Warrant the workmanship and materials used in the construction and
completion of said improvements to be of good quality;
      (4)   Warrant the construction has been in accordance with the
procedures, regulations and requirements of these specifications and the
approved proposal of the applicant; and
      (5)   Provide that, for a period of three years after the date of the
Board’s hearing, at which the applicant submitted this maintenance bond, the
applicant will, at his or her own expense, make all repairs to said
improvements which may become necessary by reason of improper workmanship or
materials, with such maintenance, however, not to include any damage to said
improvements resulting from forces or circumstances beyond the control of said
applicant or occasioned by the inadequacy of these specifications.
(1982 Code, § 55.62) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF DESIGN;
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR LAYOUT
§ 155.100 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   In laying out a subdivision, the subdivider shall comply with the following
principles and requirements.
   (A)   The subdivision shall conform to the principles, standards and
proposals set forth in or contained in the Master Plan.
      (1)   Whenever a tract to be subdivided embraces any part of a highway,
thoroughfare, major street or parkway, so designed on said plan, such part of
such public way shall be platted by the subdivider in the location and at the
width indicated on the plan.
      (2)   Where a proposed park or other recreational area, school or other
public ground shown in said plan is located, in whole or in part, within the
proposed subdivision, such proposed public ground or park, if not dedicated to
the city, county or Board of Education, shall be reserved for acquisition by
the city, county or Board of Education, as the case may be, within a period of
two years by purchase or other means.
   (B)   Where held appropriate by the Commission, open spaces, constituting a
reasonable proportion of the gross acreage of the subdivision, suitably located
and of adequate size for parks, playgrounds or other recreational purposes for
local or neighborhood use, shall be provided for in the proposed subdivision;
and, if not dedicated to the city or county, as the case may be, shall be
reserved for the common use of all property owners in the proposed subdivision
by covenant in the deeds.
   (C)   Due regard shall be shown for all natural features, such as tree
growth, watercourses, historic spots or similar conditions.
(1982 Code, § 55.70) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.101 STREET LAYOUT REQUIREMENTS.
   The street layout of the subdivision shall be in general conformity with a
plan for the most advantageous development of adjoining areas and the entire
neighborhood.
   (A)   Where appropriate to the design, proposed streets shall be continuous
and in alignment with existing, planned or platted streets with which they are
to connect.
   (B)   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the tract
to be subdivided, unless, in the opinion of the Commission, such extension is
not necessary or desirable for the coordination of the layout of the
subdivision with the existing layout or the most advantageous future
development of adjacent tracts. Cul-de-sacs of reasonable length will be
approved where they are appropriate for the type of development contemplated or
where necessitated by topography or other limiting conditions. However, such
cul-de-sacs should not exceed 500 feet in length if 15 or more lots abut such
street.
   (C)   Minor streets shall be so designed that their use by through traffic
shall be discouraged.
   (D)   Proposed streets shall intersect one another as nearly at right angles
as topography and other limiting factors of good design permit, but at not less
than 60 degrees, in any case.
   (E)   Wherever there exists, adjacent to the tract to be subdivided, a
dedicated or platted and recorded half-width street or alley, the other half-
width of such street or alley shall be platted.
   (F)   Alleys shall be platted in all business districts, to provide safe
access to residential lots fronting on highways, major thoroughfares and
parkways. Alleys shall be platted in the rear of such lots or service drives
provided in front thereof. (Alleys will not be approved in other locations in
residential districts, unless required by unusual topography or other
exceptional conditions.)
   (G)   Intersections of more than two streets at one point shall be avoided.
   (H)   Proposed streets shall be adjusted to the contours of the land so as
to produce reasonable gradient and more desirable building sites.
   (I)   Lands abutting principal thoroughfares should be platted with the view
to making the lots, if for residential use, desirable for such use by
cushioning the impact of heavy traffic on such lots; and with the view, also,
to minimizing interference with traffic on such trafficways as well as the
accident hazard. This may be accomplished in several ways, the choice depending
on topography and other physical conditions, the character of existing and
contemplated developments and other pertinent factors as indicated below and on
the accompanying exhibit, “Development Standards”.
      (1)   By platting the lots abutting such trafficways at generous depth
and by providing vehicular access to them by means of either alleys, service
drives in the rear, or frontage access streets next to the thoroughfare
connected therewith at infrequent intervals.
      (2)   By not fronting the lots on the thoroughfares, but on a minor
street paralleling the highway at a distance of a generous lot depth, not less
than 200 feet. Private driveways in this case would, of course, connect with
such minor street.
      (3)   By means of a street platted more or less parallel with the
highway, 600 to 1,000 feet distant therefrom, from which loop streets or culs-
de-sac would extend toward the thoroughfare and provide access to the lots
backing upon the highway.
      (4)   One of the means just described shall be required on all federal
numbered highways, and any frontage access streets shall be incorporated as
part of the right-of-way of said highway.
(1982 Code, § 55.71) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.102 BLOCK LAYOUT REQUIREMENTS.
   Block layout shall be as follows.
   (A)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two tiers of lots of
appropriate depth, except in the case of an interior street paralleling a
principal thoroughfare.
   (B)   The lengths of blocks shall be such as are appropriate for the
locality and the type of development contemplated, but normally shall not
exceed 1,500 feet, where the average size of lots do not exceed one acre in
area.
   (C)   In any block over 900 feet in length, the Commission may require that
a crosswalk or pedestrian way, not less than 12 feet wide, be provided near the
center and entirely across such block.
   (D)   The number of intersecting streets along highways, thoroughfares and
parkways shall be held to a minimum. Wherever practicable, blocks along such
trafficways shall be not less than 1,000 feet in length.
(1982 Code, § 55.72) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.103 LOTS.
   (A)   Every lot shall abut on a dedicated street.
   (B)   The size, shape and orientation of lots shall be appropriate for the
location of the proposed subdivision and for the type of development
contemplated, and shall conform with the provisions of
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances, unless stipulated otherwise herein.
Excessive depth in relation to width shall be avoided (proportion of two and
one-half to one (2-1/2:1) normally shall be considered a maximum).
   (C)   Lots for residence purpose shall be at least 65 feet wide at the
building line and corner lots shall be platted wider than interior lots in
order to permit conformance with the setback on the side street required by
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Double frontage lots should not be platted; except that, where desired
along principal thoroughfares, lots may face an interior street and back on
such thoroughfares; in which case, an easement for a planting screen, at least
20 feet wide, shall be provided along the back of the lots.
   (E)   Side lot lines shall be approximately at right angles to the right-of-
way line of the street on which the lot abuts.
   (F)   In case the subdivision lies inside the area designated as an urban
service area in the Master Plan, that is the area which a city or town expects
to serve with water and sanitary sewers, and in case the water and sanitary
facilities to be provided in the subdivision are to be completed with already
available facilities nearby or the water supply facilities are to be so
connected and a complete sanitary sewer system, including an approved central
water supply system and the aforesaid complete sanitary system both are to be
provided by the subdivider; the minimum lot size shall be as stipulated in
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances. If the subdivision lies outside of a
designated urban service area, the minimum lot size shall be one acre if both
water and sanitary facilities are to be provided on an individual basis, and
one-half acre if only sanitary facilities are provided on an individual lot
basis and water by a central system, or such larger minimum size, in either
case, as may be prescribed by the County Health Department.
   (G)   Residential lots, fronting or abutting on primary thoroughfares and
other important trafficways, should have a minimum depth of 200 feet to permit
buildings to be set back a sufficient distance from such trafficways.
   (H)   Lots abutting upon a watercourse, drainage way, channel or stream
shall be of such additional depth or width as required to provide an acceptable
building site, whose edge shall be the same as the easement dedicated for such
watercourse.
(1982 Code, § 55.73) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.104 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Where alleys are not provided, easements for utilities shall be
provided. Such easements shall have minimum widths of 15 feet, and where
located along lot lines, one-half of the width shall be taken from each lot.
Before determining the location of easements, the plan shall be discussed with
utility officials to assure their proper placing for the installation of such
services. At deflection points in these easements, if overhead utility lines
are contemplated, additional easements shall be established for pole-line
anchors.
   (B)   (1)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a water course, drainage
way, channel or stream there shall be provided a drainage easement conforming
substantially with the line of such water course.
      (2)   It shall include an additional area, outside the water course,
drainage way, channel or stream, of a least 15 feet wide and shall include both
edges of the floodplain area as certified by the Developer's Engineer/Surveyor.
   (C)   (1)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a legal drain as defined by
the Indiana drainage laws, there shall be provided a drainage right-of-way
conforming substantially with the line of such drain.
      (2)   It shall include an additional area, outside the drainage way, of
75 feet on both sides of the legal drain.
      (3)   The 75 feet is to be measured at right angles to the centerline of
a tile drain and to be measured at right angles from the existing top edge of
each bank of an open drain as determined by the Developer's Engineer/Surveyor.
(1982 Code, § 55.74) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001; Ord. 2023-
006, passed 7-26-2023)
§ 155.105 BUILDING SETBACK LINES.
   Building setback lines shall be as required by Ch. 156 of this code of
ordinances and as follows:
   (A)   Along state or federal numbered highways and along thoroughfares
designated in the Major Highway Plan: a minimum distance of 60 feet measured
from officially established right-of-way lines on said plan; and
   (B)   In all other cases: the minimum distance required by
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances, but in no case less than 25 feet in
residential or manufacturing developments.
(1982 Code, § 55.75) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.106 PUBLIC OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   Where sites or locations for parks, schools, playgrounds or other
public uses proposed in the Master Plan are located within the subdivision
area, or where such sites are deemed to be desirable by the Commission, the
Commission may request their dedication for such purposes or their reservations
for a period of three years following the date of approval of the final plat.
In the event the governmental agency concerned passes a resolution expressing
its intent to acquire the land so reserved, the reservation period may be
extended for an additional one year.
   (B)   Failure to acquire said area by voluntary means, within the designated
time, shall waive the requirements of division (A) above, the said area shall,
thereafter, be free of such reservation for public acquisition.
(1982 Code, § 55.76) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.107 NATURAL SURFACE DRAINAGE.
   If there is natural surface drainage across the subdivision from adjoining
lands, easements of sufficient width shall be provided, and if necessary,
drains of sufficient capacity constructed to provide proper drainage of said
adjoining tracts for both present use and future development. Design of storm
and surface water systems shall be the responsibility of the Developer's
Engineer/Surveyor. Said design shall be submitted to the Wayne County Surveyor
prior to and as a condition of secondary plat approval. As-built plans shall be
prepared and certified by the Developer's Engineer/Surveyor and submitted to
the County Surveyor prior to the issuance of a certificate of use and
occupancy.
(1982 Code, § 55.77) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001; Ord. 2023-
006, passed 7-26-2023)
MINIMUM STANDARDS OF IMPROVEMENTS
§ 155.120 GENERAL CONFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All of the improvements required under these regulations shall be
constructed prior to filing with the Commission of the secondary plat for final
approval, in accordance with the specifications and under the supervision of
the officials having jurisdiction.
   (B)   In lieu of construction of said improvements, as above specified, the
subdivider shall furnish a bond which shall run to the county, in an amount
determined by the Commission to be sufficient to complete the improvements and
installation in compliance with this chapter, and be with surety satisfactory
to the Commission, as more fully specified in §
155.087 of this chapter.
(1982 Code, § 55.100) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.121 MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
   (A)   Monuments and markers shall be placed so that the scored or marked
point shall coincide exactly with the intersection of lines to be marked, and
shall be set so that the top of the monument is level with the surface of the
surrounding ground.
   (B)   Monuments shall be set as follows:
      (1)   At the intersection of all lines forming angles in the boundary of
the subdivision; and
      (2)   At or near the intersection of street right-of-way lines.
   (C)   Markers shall be set as follows:
      (1)   At the beginning and ending of all curves along street property
lines;
      (2)   At all points where lot lines intersect curves, either front or
rear;
      (3)   At all angles in property lines of lots; and
      (4)   At all other lot corners.
   (D)   (1)   Monuments shall be of concrete or stone with a minimum size of
four inches by four inches by three feet, and shall be marked on top either
with an iron or copper dowel set flush with the top of the monument.
      (2)   Markers shall consist of iron pipes or steel bars at least three
feet long, and not less than one inch in diameter.
(1982 Code, § 55.101) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.122 STREETS.
   (A)   Streets and alleys shall be completed to grades shown on plan profiles
and cross-sections prepared by the subdivider and approved by the Commission.
   (B)   All street plans must conform to the requirements in §§
155.175 through
155.187 of this chapter.
(1982 Code, § 55.102) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.123 SEWERS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a complete sanitary
sewer system which shall connect with a sanitary sewer outlet approved by the
State Board of Health; except that, when such approved outlet is not available,
one of the following methods of sewage disposal shall be used: a complete
sanitary sewer system to convey the sewage to a treatment plant to be provided
by the subdivider in accordance with minimum requirements of the State Board of
Health.
   (B)   When a sanitary sewer system is installed, it shall include all
laterals and service sewers to the property line of lots to be served.
(1982 Code, § 55.103) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.124 SEPTIC SYSTEM.
   (A)   Private sewage disposal systems on individual lots, consisting of a
septic tank and tile absorption field or other approved sewage disposal system,
when laid out in accordance with minimum standards of the State Board of
Health, on lots of at least one-half acre in area when water is supplied by a
central system and at least one acre in size when water is not so supplied; or
such larger areas in each case as may be required by the County Health Officer
to ensure the satisfactory functioning of such private sewage disposal system.
   (B)   (1)   The plans for the installation of a sanitary system shall be
prepared by the subdivider and approved by the State Board of Health, and the
plans for such system as built shall be filed with the Commissioners.
      (2)   In case percolation tests are required by the Health Officer, they
shall be conducted according to his or her instructions and at the subdivider’s
expense.
   (C)   The phrase, “the subdivider shall provide” shall be interpreted to
mean that the subdivider shall install the facility referred to, or that the
subdivider shall require, as a condition of the sale of each lot or parcel in
the subdivision, that the facilities referred to shall be installed by the
owner of the lots in accordance with these regulations.
(1982 Code, § 55.104) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.125 WATER.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide a complete water main supply system which
shall be connected to a municipal or community water supply approved by the
State Board of Health; except that, when such municipal or community water
supply is not available, the subdivider shall provide an individual water
supply on each lot in the subdivision in accordance with minimum requirements
of the State Board of Health.
   (B)   (1)   The plans for the installation of a water main supply system
shall be prepared by the subdivider and approved by the State Board of Health.
      (2)   Upon the completion of the water supply installation, the plans for
such system as built shall be filed with the Commissioners.
   (C)   The phrase, “the subdivider shall provide” shall be interpreted to
mean the subdivider shall install the facility referred to, or that the
subdivider shall require, as a condition of the sale of each lot or parcel in
the subdivision, that the facilities referred to shall be installed by the
owner of the lots in accordance with these regulations.
(1982 Code, § 55.105) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.126 STORM DRAINAGE.
   (A)   (1)   The subdivider shall provide an adequate storm water system
whenever curb and gutter is installed and/or when the evidence available to the
Commission indicates that the natural surface drainage is inadequate.
      (2)   When the natural surface drainage is deemed adequate, easements
shall be provided for surface drainage, unless curb and gutter and storm water
sewers are installed.
   (B)   The phrase, “the subdivider shall provide” shall be interpreted to
mean that the subdivider shall install the facility referred to, or that the
subdivider shall require, as a condition of the sale of each lot or parcel in
the subdivision, that the facilities referred to in this section shall be
installed by the owner of the lots in accordance with these regulations.
(1982 Code, § 55.106) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
STREETS AND ROADWAYS
§ 155.140 MINIMUM RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTHS FOR STREETS, ALLEYS, EASEMENTS FOR
UTILITIES.
   (A)   Primary thoroughfare: as specified on the Major Highway Plan, but not
less than 80 feet in any case;
   (B)   Secondary thoroughfares; as specified on the Major Highway Plan, but
not less than 60 feet in any case;
   (C)   Collector streets: 60 feet;
   (D)   Minor streets: 50 feet. All culs-de-sac shall terminate in a circular
right-of-way with a minimum diameter of 100 feet;
   (E)   Alleys: 20 feet;
   (F)   Easements for utilities along rear or side lot lines for utilities: 15
feet; and
   (G)   In business or manufacturing subdivision, the above minimum right-of-
way widths of streets and alleys shall be increased in accordance with
requirements of the Plan Commission.
(1982 Code, § 55.120) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.141 MINIMUM PAVEMENT WIDTHS.
   (A)   Minimum pavement widths, face to face of curb, required to be
installed at the subdivider’s expense shall be as follows:
      (1)   Primary and secondary thoroughfares and parkways as shown on the
Major Highway Plan: 44 feet;
      (2)   Collector streets: 36 feet;
      (3)   Minor streets: 28 feet; for distance from back of curb to back of
curb using an integral curb and gutter, add one foot to six feet to each side;
      (4)   The pavement of a turning circle at the end of a cul-de-sac street:
should have a minimum outside diameter of 80 feet; and
      (5)   Alleys: full width of the right-of-way 20 feet.
   (B)   All minor street pavements without curb and gutter shall be 24-foot
minimum width.
(1982 Code, § 55.121) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.142 STREET GRADES, CURVES AND SIGHT DISTANCES.
   (A)   The grades of streets shall be not less than 0.5% and shall not exceed
the following:
      (1)   Primary thoroughfares so designated on the Major Highway Plan: 4%;
      (2)   Secondary thoroughfares and parkways: 6%;
      (3)   Collector streets: 8%;
      (4)   Minor streets and alleys: 10%; and
      (5)   Pedestrian ways or crosswalks: 12% unless steps of an acceptable
design are to be constructed.
   (B)   All changes in street grades above 1% shall be connected by vertical
curves of a minimum length in feet equal to 80 times the algebraic difference
in the rate of grade for thoroughfares and parkways, and one-half of this
minimum for all other streets.
   (C)   The radii of curvature on the center line shall not be less than the
following:
      (1)   Primary and secondary thoroughfares: 500 feet;
      (2)   Collector streets: 200 feet;
      (3)   Minor streets: 100 feet; and
      (4)   The tangent distance between reverse curves shall be a minimum of:
100 feet.
(1982 Code, § 55.122) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.143 INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   At street and alley intersections, property line corners shall
be rounded by an arc, the minimum radius of which shall be 20 and ten feet
respectively.
      (2)   In business districts, a chord may be substituted for such arc.
   (B)   Minor street intersections shall be rounded by radii of at least 20
feet.
   (C)   Intersections involving primary and secondary thoroughfares, parkways
and collector streets shall be rounded by radii of at least 35 feet.
   (D)   The above minimum radii shall be increased when the smallest angle of
intersection is less than 90 degrees.
(1982 Code, § 55.123) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.144 CURB AND GUTTER.
   (A)   Whenever a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to or between other
subdivisions which have been provided with curb and gutter, or wherever the
proposed subdivision will have lots averaging 20,000 square feet or less in
area, the Commission shall require curb and gutter to be installed on each side
of the street.
   (B)   The curb and gutter shall be of one of the construction types approved
by the County Highway Engineer.
(1982 Code, § 55.124) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.145 DEAD-END STREETS; CULS-DE-SAC.
   (A)   All dead-ended streets not meeting the definition of a cul-de-sac in
this chapter shall be considered as temporarily dead-ended.
   (B)   (1)   Each temporarily dead-ended street shall be terminated by a
vehicle turn-around for every case in which such street is proposed to be
extended beyond the plat limits with the following exceptions.
      (2)   A vehicle turn-around will not be required; provided, the dead-end
street is less than 400 feet in length or is not abutted by more than two lots
on either side of the street with the maximum length of the dead-end street not
to exceed 400 feet.
   (C)   An easement of 100-foot diameter shall be provided for all such
vehicle turnarounds.
   (D)   All such vehicle turnarounds shall be constructed with seven inches of
compacted aggregate base material to an 80-foot diameter and be provided with
adequate drainage to same all in compliance with §§
155.120 through
155.126 of this chapter.
(1982 Code, § 55.125) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
OFF-STREET IMPROVEMENTS
§ 155.160 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Wherever a proposed subdivision lies adjacent to or between other
subdivisions which have been provided with sidewalks, the Commission shall
require connecting sidewalks on both sides of the streets which are extensions
of existing streets having such sidewalks.
   (B)   Sidewalks on each side of a street within a subdivision shall also be
required where the lots average 20,000 square feet or less in area.
   (C)   When sidewalks are provided, they shall be constructed of portland
cement concrete, at least four inches thick and four feet wide.
(1982 Code, § 55.130) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.161 STREET SIGNS.
   The subdivider will pay for all street identification signs and posts
provided, supplied and installed by the County Highway Department, at his or
her cost, at each intersection in the subdivision so that all street signs will
conform to the current signs and posts being used by the County Highway
Department.
(1982 Code, § 55.131) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.162 STREET TREES.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide street trees selected from a list of
trees recommended by the County Agricultural Agent. Such trees shall be located
on both sides of each street at intervals of from 40 to 60 feet.
   (B)   The position of such trees within the street right-of-way shall be
determined by the Commission.
(1982 Code, § 55.132) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.163 UNPAVED AREA.
   All unpaved areas within a dedicated street right-of-way shall be graded and
seeded or sodded in accordance with county standards and specifications.
(1982 Code, § 55.133) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.164 STREET PLANS.
   Construction plans, including the following, for improvements to be
installed, shall be furnished in accordance with the specifications of the
County Engineer or the official having jurisdiction, and shall receive approval
of these officials before improvements are installed:
   (A)   The profile of each proposed street, with tentative grades indicated;
   (B)   The cross-section of each proposed street, showing the width of
pavement, the location and width of sidewalks and the location and size of
utility mains;
   (C)   The plans and profiles of proposed sanitary sewers and storm water
sewers, with grades and sizes indicated, or method of sewage or storm water
disposal in lieu of sewers; and
   (D)   A plan of the proposed water distribution system, showing pipe sizes
and the location of valves and fire hydrants.
(1982 Code, § 55.134) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
STREET CONSTRUCTION; MINIMUM STANDARDS
§ 155.175 INSPECTION.
   The County Engineer shall be notified by the subdivider 48 hours in advance
of the starting date of any work on the proposed improvements. All material
delivered to the job shall be subject to inspection at the source and/or site,
and may be rejected at either location. Final acceptance of the work rests with
the County Engineer and the performance bond shall be retained in full effect
until the acceptance of the work is made officially. All inspection of
materials and work shall be made at the expense of the owner or subdivider.
(1982 Code, § 55.140) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.176 INTENT.
   The intent of this subchapter is to provide procedures, regulations and
specifications necessary for the inclusion of “right-of-way” into the county
highway system, said “right-of-way” to be dedicated to the public use, which
affords the means of access to abutting property.
(1982 Code, § 55.141) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.177 SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   Specifications for materials, construction and maintenance are State
Department of Highway’s Standard Specifications, dated 1988, or any subsequent
amendments thereto, and any subsequent county ordinance or county highway
directive. If a conflict arises, the county ordinance and highway directive
shall prevail. Reference is made to these Standard Specifications by section
and number in the following paragraphs.
(1982 Code, § 55.142) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.178 STREET CONSTRUCTION INSPECTION.
   (A)   The interest of the county is to secure adequately constructed and
good quality streets for their future administration and maintenance; the
subdivider and/or any of his or her agents shall permit and cooperate in the
inspection of any part of the construction at any time by the County Highway
Engineer or his or her assigned inspector.
   (B)   During the course of construction, the subdivider shall be required to
notify the County Highway Engineer as follows:
      (1)   Forty-eight hours in advance of the starting date of the work;
      (2)   After completion of the subgrade and before any base courses are to
be placed;
      (3)   Prior to the placing of any pavement; and
      (4)   The subdivider shall not proceed with any work outlined herein
until approval is granted by the County Highway Engineer.
(1982 Code, § 55.143) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.179 PAVEMENT DESIGN.
   Minimum design standards shall be in accordance with these specifications,
including all drawings, details and cross-sections; however, any pavement
design required for those special cases not covered by these regulations shall
be presented during preliminary discussions. Unusual soil conditions and
specialized traffic usage are examples of special cases.
(1982 Code, § 55.144) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.180 DRAINAGE STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The applicant shall provide for the continued flow or controlled flow
of surface water and/or water percolating through the soil (ground water),
thereby protecting the right-of-way from water damage.
   (B)   Open ditches, pipes, culverts, drop inlets, bridges, headwalls and
similar or related installations shall be utilized to carry water to outlets
which may be either natural or artificial watercourses or lakes, ponds and the
like.
(1982 Code, § 55.145) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.181 STREET CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Minimum requirements for road construction shall be in accordance with
the Standard Specifications, unless otherwise noted. These minimum
specifications shall prevail over the Standard Specifications when in conflict
therewith.
   (B)   Preparation for subgrade shall be done in the following way.
      (1)   All perishable or unsuitable material, including trees, shrubbery,
stumps, roots and vegetation, shall be completely removed from the roadbed area
and disposed of. All peat, muck, marl or any other similar unsuitable material
shall be completely removed from the right-of-way and replaced with material
which will hold its form. If water is present in any excavated area, backfill
shall be made with material complying with § 211.02(b).
      (2)   (a)   After the embankment area has been cleared and substantially
leveled, the ground shall be well compacted with a three-wheeled or a tandem
roller weighing at least ten tons or crawler-tread equipment having a bearing
of not less than six pounds per square inch of tread or with vibratory
compactors, if material at the ground surface is granular.
         (b)   Any embankment placed on this prepared surface shall be
constructed in accordance with § 203.
         (c)   After all earth work is substantially complete, the subgrade
shall be cut, fine graded and dressed for the specified width to grades
conforming to the profile elevations designated in the submitted proposal.
         (d)   All soft, spongy, yielding and unsuitable material that does not
compact to form a nearly uniform density throughout by the use of a three-wheel
or tandem roller weighing not less than ten tons, shall be removed and replaced
with granular material.
      (3)   All locations not accessible to the roller shall be compacted with
mechanical tamps.
      (4)   All utility service connections, sewers, drains and the like shall
be constructed prior to the construction of surface treatment.
      (5)   All trenches and excavations shall be backfilled with granular
material and compacted to ensure no future settlement.
      (6)   The trench bottom shall conform in shape and size to the lower
third of the pipe and shall be uniformly firm and true throughout its length.
      (7)   In case a firm foundation is not encountered at the required grade,
the unstable material shall be removed and replaced with suitable material to a
depth that will produce a uniform and stable foundation.
(1982 Code, § 55.146) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.182 CEMENT CONCRETE PAVEMENTS.
   (A)   Type I pavement construction shall be required for primary and
secondary thoroughfares and parkways, shall have an eight-inch uniform
thickness, shall be air-entrained and every cubic yard in place shall contain
no less than 564 pounds of cement.
   (B)   Type II pavement construction shall be required for collector and
minor streets, shall have a six-inch uniform thickness, shall be air entrained
and every cubic yard in place shall contain no less than 564 pounds of cement.
   (C)   Joint requirements are as follows.
      (1)   Transverse contraction joints (pre-molded strip or sawed) shall be
placed at distances not to exceed 20 feet.
      (2)   Transverse expansion joints shall be placed at intersections where
new slabs abut old slabs and where indicated on the approved plans.
      (3)   Longitudinal construction joints shall be placed in all pavements
more than one traffic lane in width.
      (4)   No two transverse joints of any kind shall be permitted within ten
feet of one another.
   (D)   Consolidation, finishing and strike-off.
      (1)   The batches shall be deposited so as to require as little re-
handling as possible, but necessary hand spreading shall be done with shovels
not with rakes.
      (2)   After the concrete has been deposited, it shall be compacted,
leveled and finished by approved methods. Competent concrete finishers shall be
employed at all times to finish, test and check the pavement surface. The
finished surface shall be free from porous spots, irregularities, depression
pockets or rough spots.
      (3)   The sequence of operation shall be consolidation and strike-off,
longitudinal floating, checking and removal of laitance, final finish and
curing.
   (E)   Curing pavement provision shall be made for maintaining concrete in a
moist condition for four days. In lieu of moist curing, an approved impervious
membrane cure may be used.
   (F)   Sealing cracks and joints: refer to § 501.19.
(1982 Code, § 55.147) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.183 HOT ASPHALTIC CONCRETE PAVEMENTS.
   (A)   Any specification for materials, construction and maintenance under
this section has been developed from the 1999 State Department of Highway
Standard Specifications and any amendment thereto, by any subsequent ordinance
passed by the County Commissioners and by County Highway Department directives.
If a conflict arises, any subsequent ordinance and the Highway Department
directive shall prevail. Reference is made to these Standard Specifications by
section and number herein.
   (B)   The following sub-headings shall be considered integral parts of this
type of pavement.
      (1)   Compacted aggregate base. This item shall consist of a foundation
course of compacted dense-graded aggregate placed in layers not to exceed four
inches on a prepared subgrade in compliance with these specifications and §
303; except that, calcium chloride will not be required.
      (2)   HMA base. This item shall consist of a hot mixed, hot laid
asphaltic concrete base course. Refer to applicable provisions of § 402.04(a).
      (3)   HMA intermediate. This item shall consist of a hot mixed, hot laid
asphaltic concrete binder course. Refer to applicable provisions of § 402.04
(b).
      (4)   HMA surface. This item shall consist of a hot mixed, hot laid
asphaltic concrete constructed as a medium-texture course. Refer to § 402.04
(c).
      (5)   Pavement types.
         (a)   Type I pavement construction shall be required for primary and
secondary thoroughfares. Type I pavement shall have a 110- pound per square
yard surface course, a 550- pound per square yard base course and an eight-inch
compacted aggregate base.
         (b)   Type II pavement construction shall be required for collector
streets. Type II pavement shall have a 110-pound per square yard surface
course, a 440-pound per square yard base course and an eight-inch compacted
aggregate base.
         (c)   Type III pavement construction shall be required for minor
streets. Type III pavement shall have a 110-pound per square yard surface
course, a 330-pound per square yard base course or binder course and an eight-
inch compacted aggregate base.
(1982 Code, § 55.148) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.184 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   Cement concrete curbs and gutters shall consist of plain concrete curb,
integral curb or combined curb and gutter in conformance with applicable
provisions of §§ 605 and 607 and these specifications. Every cubic yard of
concrete in place shall contain no less than 564 pounds of cement.
(1982 Code, § 55.149) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.185 CEMENT CONCRETE SIDEWALKS.
   This item consists of four-foot wide by four- inch deep sidewalks
constructed on a prepared subgrade in conformance with applicable provisions of
§ 604 and these specifications. Every cubic yard of concrete in place shall
contain no less than 564 pounds of cement. When completed, the sidewalk shall
be cured for not less than 96 hours.
(1982 Code, § 55.150) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.186 FINISHING SHOULDERS, DITCHES AND SLOPES.
   This item consists of the final shaping, dressing and protection from
erosion of shoulders, ditches and slopes in conformance with the cross-
sections.
   (A)   In general, all shoulders, side slopes and ditches shall be protected
from erosion by seeding and mulching as soon as possible after construction:
      (1)   Apply fertilizer as determined by soil tests or at the minimum rate
of 1,000 pounds of 12-12-12 fertilizer (or its equivalent) per acre;
      (2)   The amount of pure live seed per acre shall be: 35 pounds of tall
fescue or 20 pounds of bluegrass with 20 pounds of creeping red fescue, and a
nurse crop of one bushel of oats, rye or wheat.
      (3)   Work in fertilizer two inches deep where possible, and seed grass
one-quarter inch deep by firming or compacting the soil.
      (4)   Mulch areas with straw or suitable materials at a rate of one and
one-half tons per acre. Site conditions may require mulch to be anchored.
   (B)   Earthen ditch side slopes shall be no steeper than 2:1.
   (C)   All ditch flow lines having grades in excess of 5% shall have a
concrete paved side ditch or a hand laid stone riprap side ditch, as detailed
in the proposal. In general, those special cases of erosion, not heretofore
covered, shall be controlled by riprap and slopewall.
   (D)   All unpaved areas between the edge of the road pavement and the right-
of-way line must support an adequate sod before the release of the three-year
maintenance bond can be made.
(1982 Code, § 55.151) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.187 STREET SIGNS.
   (A)   The installation of street identification signs shall conform to the
current signs being used by the County Highway Department. In order to have
clarity and uniformity, the County Highway Department will furnish and install
said signs at their costs, said costs will be paid by the developer prior to
the final acceptance of any street.
   (B)   In the event that subsequent action by the county modifies the
procedure to allow for private installation of street signs, then the developer
must install the street signs according to the specifications adopted by the
county and available at their office and which are to be included as an exhibit
at the back of this chapter.
   (C)   Bituminous binder: this item shall consist of a hot mixed, hot laid
asphaltic concrete binder course. Refer to applicable provisions of § 401.
   (D)   Bituminous surface: this item shall consist of a hot mixed, hot laid
asphaltic concrete constructed as a medium-texture surface course. Refer to §
401.
   (E)   Pavement types.
      (1)   Type I pavement construction shall be required for primary and
secondary thoroughfares; shall have a 110-pound per square yard surface course,
385-pound per square yard base course, and an eight-inch compacted aggregate
base.
      (2)   Type II pavement construction shall be required for collector
streets; shall have a 110-pound per square yard surface course; 275-pound per
square yard base course; and a seven-inch compacted aggregate base.
      (3)   Type III pavement construction shall be required for minor streets;
shall have a 110-pound per square yard surface course; 220-pound per square
yard base or binder course; and a seven-inch compacted aggregate base.
(1982 Code, § 55.152) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
VARIANCES
§ 155.200 VARIANCE IN PLAT.
   In any particular case, where the subdivider can show that, by reason of
exceptional topographic or other physical conditions, strict compliance with
any requirements of these regulations would cause practical difficulty or
exceptional or undue hardship, the Commission may, at the time of platting,
relax such requirements to the extent deemed just and proper, so as to relieve
such difficulty or hardship; provided, such relief may be granted without
detriment to the public good and without impairing the intent and purpose of
these regulations or the desirable general development of the neighborhood and
the community, in accordance with the Master Plan and
Ch. 156 of this code of ordinances.
(1982 Code, § 55.170) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.201 CONDITIONS TO VARIANCE.
   In granting variances, the Plan Commission may require such conditions as
will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the standards or
requirements so varied.
(1982 Code, § 55.171) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.202 NOTATION OF VARIANCE.
   Any variance, thus granted, shall be entered in the minutes of the
Commission, setting forth the reasons which, in the opinion of the Commission,
justified the modification, and shall be noted on the face of the plat.
(1982 Code, § 55.172) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
§ 155.203 VARIANCE AFTER PLATTING.
   The Board of Zoning Appeal shall have sole jurisdiction over any variance to
a plat after it has been granted secondary approval.
(1982 Code, § 55.173) (Ord. passed 4-21-1993; Ord. passed 7-25-2001)
APPENDIX A: IMAGES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b13e5f68cbdb84e4569995f611153b3ab513d249/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1444.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b13e5f68cbdb84e4569995f611153b3ab513d249/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1446.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b13e5f68cbdb84e4569995f611153b3ab513d249/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1448.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b13e5f68cbdb84e4569995f611153b3ab513d249/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1450.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b13e5f68cbdb84e4569995f611153b3ab513d249/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1452.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b13e5f68cbdb84e4569995f611153b3ab513d249/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1454.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b13e5f68cbdb84e4569995f611153b3ab513d249/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1456.png]
CHAPTER 156: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Purpose and scope
   
156.002   Title
   
156.003   Interpretation of standards
   
156.004   Definitions
   
156.005   County commissioners may amend ordinance
   
156.006   Procedure for change
   
156.007   Fees
   
156.008   Validity
   
156.009   Adoption
Districts and Boundaries
   
156.020   Establishment of districts
   
156.021   Zoning maps
   
156.022   District boundary interpretation
   
156.023   Procedures for annexed or vacated areas
   
156.024   Unidentified property
Effects of Districting and General Regulations
   
156.035   District; more restricted or less restricted
   
156.036   Conformance requirements
   
156.037   Additional uses; Commission determination
   
156.038   Additional prohibited uses; Commission determination
   
156.039   Yard requirements along zoning boundary line in the restricted
district
   
156.040   Street frontage requirements
   
156.041   Required area or space cannot be reduced
   
156.042   Off-street parking and loading
   
156.043   Encroaching doors
   
156.044   Essential services
   
156.045   Unsafe buildings
   
156.046   Pending applications for building permits
   
156.047   Extraction of minerals and oil drilling prohibited
Conservation Districts
   
156.060   GB-1 Conservation District
   
156.061   GB-2 Flood District
   
156.062   GB-3 Restricted District
A-1 Agricultural District
   
156.075   Principal permitted uses
   
156.076   Special exceptions
   
156.077   Accessory uses
   
156.078   Height regulations
   
156.079   Lot area, width and yard requirements
   
156.080   Minimum setback requirements
   
156.081   Subdivision
A-1-CP Residential Unit Community Project
   
156.095   Establishment of a residential unit community project
   
156.096   Effect of the residential unit community project
   
156.097   General requirements
   
156.098   Procedure for development
   
156.099   Submission of plans
   
156.100   Principal permitted uses
   
156.101   Special exceptions
   
156.102   Accessory uses
   
156.103   Residential unit community project requirements and standards
   
156.104   Courts
A-2 Agricultural Big-Lot District
   
156.115   Principal permitted uses
   
156.116   Special exceptions
   
156.117   Accessory uses
   
156.118   Height regulations
   
156.119   Lot area, width and yard requirements
   
156.120   Subdivisions
A-3 Limited Agriculture District
   
156.135   Purposes
   
156.136   Subdivision
A-4 Agriculture Preservation District
   
156.150   Purposes
   
156.151   Permitted uses
   
156.152   Subdivision
R-S One-Family Suburban Residence District
   
156.165   Principal permitted uses
   
156.166   Special exceptions
   
156.167   Accessory uses
   
156.168   Height regulations
   
156.169   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements
   
156.170   Courts
R-1 One-Family Residence District
   
156.185   Principal permitted uses
   
156.186   Special exceptions
   
156.187   Accessory uses
   
156.188   Height regulations
   
156.189   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements
   
156.190   Courts
R-2 Multi-Family Residence District
   
156.205   Principal permitted uses
   
156.206   Special exceptions
   
156.207   Accessory uses
   
156.208   Height regulations
   
156.209   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements
   
156.210   Courts
Supplemental Regulations for Residential Districts
   
156.225   Rear dwellings in R district
   
156.226   Transitional uses in R district
   
156.227   Accessory uses in R districts
   
156.228   Side yards
   
156.229   Traffic visibility across corner lots
   
156.230   Parking of trucks in R districts
   
156.231   Yards sales, private or rummage
   
156.232   Measurements of basement and cellars
C-1 Neighborhood Business District
   
156.245   Principal permitted uses
   
156.246   Special exceptions
   
156.247   Accessory uses
   
156.248   Required conditions
   
156.249   Height regulations
   
156.250   Lot area, frontage and yard regulations
   
156.251   Courts
C-2 Community Business District
   
156.265   Principal permitted uses
   
156.266   Special exceptions
   
156.267   Accessory uses
   
156.268   Required conditions
   
156.269   Height regulations
   
156.270   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements
   
156.271   Garages and parking areas, distance requirements
   
156.272   Courts
C-3 General Business District
   
156.285   Principal permitted uses
   
156.286   Special exceptions
   
156.287   Accessory uses
   
156.288   Required conditions
   
156.289   Prohibited uses
   
156.290   Height regulations
   
156.291   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements
M-1 Light Industrial District
   
156.305   Principal permitted uses
   
156.306   Special exceptions
   
156.307   Accessory uses
   
156.308   Required conditions
   
156.309   Prohibited uses
   
156.310   Height regulations
   
156.311   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements
M-2 General Industrial District
   
156.325   Principal permitted uses
   
156.326   Special exceptions
   
156.327   Accessory uses
   
156.328   Required conditions
   
156.329   Prohibited uses
   
156.330   Height regulations
   
156.331   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements
M-3 Rural Industrial District
   
156.345   Principal permitted uses
   
156.346   Special exceptions
   
156.347   Accessory uses
   
156.348   Required conditions
   
156.349   Prohibited uses
   
156.350   Height regulations
   
156.351   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements
Non-Conforming Uses
   
156.365   Prior uses; non-conforming permitted to continue
   
156.366   Minimum living area of a residence
Wireless Communications and Support Structures
   
156.370   Purpose
   
156.371   Permitted uses
   
156.372   General requirements
   
156.373   Performance standards
   
156.374   Temporary WCF
   
156.375   Abandonment
Flood Damage Prevention
   
156.380   Purpose
Off-Street Loading and Parking
   
156.395   Off-street loading space
   
156.396   Accessory off-street parking space
   
156.397   Number of parking spaces required
   
156.398   Standards for accessory off-street parking
   
156.399   Development and maintenance of off-street parking areas
   
156.400   Modifications
Solar Energy Systems Siting Regulations
   
156.405   Purpose and intent
   
156.406   Applicability
   
156.407   Exemptions
   
156.408   Prohibitions
   
156.409   Conflict with other regulations
   
156.410   District regulations
   
156.411   Noncommercial solar energy system (SES-NC) general regulations
   
156.412   Commercial solar energy system (SES-C) general regulations
   
156.413   Definitions
   
156.414   Solar energy systems: zoning districts
Mobile Homes and Mobile Home Parks,
Motels and Motor Hotels
   
156.415   General requirements
   
156.416   Enlargement
   
156.417   Mobile homes restrictions
   
156.418   Mobile home parks; submission of plans; requirements
   
156.419   Procedure for additional requirements
Home Occupation
   
156.420   Level 1 home occupation
   
165.421   Level 2 home occupation
   
156.422   Level 3 home occupation
Signs
   
156.430   Generally
   
156.431   Advertising signs
   
156.432   Signs; exterior on-premises
   
156.433   Real estate signs
   
156.434   Home occupation signs
Unit Development Projects
   
156.445   Creation and effect
   
156.446   Commercial unit development establishment
   
156.447   Residential unit development establishment
   
156.448   Community unit development establishment
   
156.449   Industrial unit development establishment
   
156.450   Single district unit
   
156.451   Overlay multiple district unit
   
156.452   Effect of the unit development
   
156.453   Variance requirements
   
156.454   Additional requirements
   
156.455   General requirements
   
156.456   Required components
   
156.457   Permitted additional components
   
156.458   Procedure for development
   
156.459   Submission of plans
   
156.460   Commercial unit development project requirements and standards
   
156.461   Residential unit development project requirements and standards
   
156.462   Residential unit community project requirements and standards
   
156.463   Industrial unit development project requirements and standards
Extraction of Minerals
   
156.475   Procedures, application and public hearing
   
156.476   General requirements
   
156.477   Rehabilitation; bonds
   
156.478   Additional requirements
Supplemental Regulations and Standards
   
156.490   Performance standards
   
156.491   Swimming pools
Special Exceptions
   
156.505   Determination by Board of Zoning Appeals
   
156.506   Filing procedure
   
156.507   Conformance requirements
   
156.508   Construction requirements
   
156.509   Special exceptions
   
156.510   Standards for modification of a prior existing non-conformity
   
156.511   Farm alcohol production
Variances and Modifications
   
156.525   Lots of record
   
156.526   Height modifications
   
156.527   Yard modifications
Yard Projections
   
156.540   Projection of architectural features
   
156.541   Fences, walks and hedges
   
156.542   Yard requirements along zoning boundary lines in less restricted
district
Administration Generally
   
156.555   Enforcement by Zoning Inspector
   
156.556   Application requirements
   
156.557   Improvement location permit
   
156.558   Certificate of occupancy
   
156.559   Fees
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
156.570   Establishment of Board divisions
   
156.571   Organization and general requirements
   
156.572   Meetings of the Board
   
156.573   Rules of procedure
   
156.574   Powers and duties
   
156.575   Appeals to the Board
   
156.576   Hearing an appeal
   
156.577   Stay of work pending decision on appeal
   
156.578   Review by certiorari
 
   
156.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   This chapter is enacted for the purpose of promoting public health, safety,
comfort, morals, convenience and general public welfare by classifying,
regulating and restricting that location, bulk, and height of buildings and
structures and of premises to be used for trade, industry, residence or other
specified uses, all in accordance with a comprehensive plan for the desirable
future development of the county and to provide a method of administration and
to prescribe penalties for the violations of provisions hereafter described.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.002 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the “Wayne
County, Indiana, Zoning Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.003 INTERPRETATION OF STANDARDS.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements. Wherever this chapter imposes a
greater restriction than is imposed or required by other provisions of law or
by other rules or regulations or resolutions, the provisions of this chapter
shall govern.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.004 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future and vice versa;
words in the singular number include the plural number and vice versa. The word
shall is mandatory and not discretionary.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONMENT.
      (1)   An intent to abandon or to relinquish by some overt act, or some
failure to act, which carries the implication that the owner neither claims or
retains any interest in the subject matter of the abandonment.
      (2)   ABANDON means to intentionally cease all business activity
associated with a wireless support structure for a minimum period of one year
or more.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING, STRUCTURE OR USE. A building, structure or use
subordinate to the principal use of a building, structure or principal use of
land, located on the same lot as such principal use and serving a purpose
customarily incidental to the use of the principal building, structure or land
use.
      ACCESSORY EQUIPMENT. (In reference to a WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY,
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY WITH WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE AND WIRELESS
SUPPORT STRUCTURE.) Includes, but is not limited to, utility or transmission
equipment, power supplies, generators, batteries, cables, guy wires, equipment
buildings, cabinets and storage sheds, shelters or other similar structures.
      ACREAGE. Any tract or parcel of land which has not been subdivided and
platted.
      ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL. The zoning approval that the Administrator or
the Administrator's designee is authorized to grant after Administrative
Review.
      ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW. The non-discretionary evaluation of an application
by the Administrator or designee, without a public hearing.
      ADU. See DWELLING UNIT, ACCESSORY.
      AGRICULTURE. The use of five or more acres of land for agriculture
purposes, including farming, dairying, pasturage, apiculture, horticulture,
floriculture, viticulture, U-pick operations, cut-your-own Christmas tree
farms, aquaculture, and animal or poultry husbandry, and the necessary
accessory uses for packing, treating, or storing the produce raised on the
premises, provided however, that the operation of such accessory uses shall be
secondary to the normal agriculture activities. The term "agriculture" shall
not include stockyards, slaughterhouses and confined feeding operations,
concentrated animal feeding operations and both large and medium satellite
manure storage structures.
      AGRICULTURE, PRIME (PRIME FARMLAND). Prime farmland has the soil quality,
growing season and moisture supply needed to produce substantial high yields of
crops economically when treated and managed, including water management,
according to modern farming methods (USDA).
      AGRITOURISM. (1) An activity at an agricultural, horticultural, or
agribusiness operation where the general public is allowed or invited to
participate in, view or enjoy the activities for recreational, entertainment or
educational purposes, including farming, ranching, historic and cultural
agricultural activities, self-pick farms or farmers' markets; (2) an activity
involving an animal operation at an agricultural fair; or (3) natural resource
based activities and attractions, including hunting, fishing, hiking and trail
riding. (As defined by the Indiana Legislature.)
      AIR POLLUTION. Presence in the outdoor atmosphere of one or more air
contaminants in sufficient quantities and of such characteristics and duration
as to be injurious to human, plant or animal life, to property or which
unreasonably interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property.
      AIRPORT or AIRSTRIP. Any runway, landing area or other facility designed,
used either publicly or privately by any person for the landing and taking off
of aircraft, including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tie-down
areas, hangers and other necessary buildings and open spaces.
      ALLEY. A public or private way not more than 20 feet wide, at the rear or
side of property, affording only a secondary means of access to abutting
property.
      ALTERATIONS. As applied to a building or structure, a change or
rearrangement in the structural parts or in exit facilities, or an enlargement,
whether by extending on a side or by increasing in height, or the moving from
one location or position to another.
      AMENDMENT. A change of the zoning regulations, district boundaries or
classification of property as shown on the Zoning Map. The authority for any
amendment lies solely with the County Commissioners.
      ANIMAL HUSBANDRY. The keeping, grazing, feeding and care of animals other
than household pets.
      ANTENNA. Any communications equipment that transmits or receives
electromagnetic radio signals used in the provision of wireless communications
service.
      APARTMENT. A suite of rooms or a room in a multi-family building
arranged, designed and intended for a place of residence of a single family.
      APARTMENT, GARDEN. A group of buildings not more than two and one-half
stories in height, each building containing not less than two or more than 12
dwelling units.
      APARTMENT, HOTEL. An apartment house which furnishes services for the use
of its tenants which are ordinarily furnished by hotels.
      APARTMENT, HOUSE. A building or portion thereof designed for or used
exclusively for residence purposes by three or more families living independent
of each other.
      AQUACULTURE. The propagation, cultivation and marketing of aquatic plants
and animals. AQUACULTURE shall not include retail sales of aquatic plants and
animals, fee fishing or aquaculture facilities that require a National
Pollution Discharge Elimination Standard (NPDES) permit.
      AREA (LOT, NET SITES). The total area within the property line.
      AREA, COMMON. Space reserved for use by any and all residents of a
housing development such as halls, stairways and landings in apartment houses.
      ATTIC. The space of a building which is immediately below and wholly or
partially within the roof framing.
      AUTOMOBILE BODY SHOP (MOTOR VEHICLE). A building on a lot that is used
for the repair or painting of bodies, chassis, wheels, fenders, bumpers and/or
accessories of automobiles and other motor vehicles.
      AUTOMOBILE GARAGE, MAJOR (MOTOR VEHICLE). A building on a lot designed
and/or used primarily for mechanical and/or body repairs, storage, rental
servicing of automobiles, trucks or similar motor vehicles.
      AUTOMOBILE, GARAGE, MINOR (MOTOR VEHICLE). An accessory building for the
storage of one or more automobiles and/or other vehicles, accessory and
incidental to the primary use of the premises; provided that, no business,
occupation or service is conducted for profit therein.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR (MOTOR VEHICLE). General repair, rebuilding or
reconstruction of engines, motor vehicles or trailers; collision services
including body, fender or frame straightening or repair; overall painting or
paint shop, vehicle steam cleaning.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR (MOTOR VEHICLE). Incidental repairs, replacement
of parts, and motor service to motor vehicles, but not including any operation
specified under “Automobile, Repair, Major” or any other similar thereto.
      AUTOMOTIVE SALES – MOBILE HOME, TRAILER, RECREATION VEHICLES AND FARM
IMPLEMENT. An open lot, used for the outdoor display, sale or rental of new or
used motor vehicles, mobile homes, trailers, recreation vehicles or farm
implements.
      AUTOMOTIVE SALES GARAGE – MOBILE HOME, TRAILER, RECREATION, VEHICLES AND
FARM IMPLEMENT. A building on a lot designed and used primarily for the
display, sale or rental of new or used motor vehicles, mobile homes, trailers,
recreation vehicles or farm implements, where mechanical repair and body work
may be conducted as an accessory use incidental to the primary use.
      AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION (MOTOR VEHICLE OR FILLING). A building or
place where gasoline or other motor fuel, lubricants, tires, batteries,
accessories and supplies for operating and equipping motor vehicles are sold at
retail to the public and deliveries are made directly into motor vehicles,
including incidental battery, brake, muffler and tire service, washing and
polishing.
      AUTOMOBILE WASH. A structure or building designed for cleaning, washing,
waxing, simonizing or similar treatment of automotive vehicles as its principal
function.
      AUTOMOBILE WRECKING OR SALVAGE YARD (MOTOR VEHICLE). Any land, building
or structure where motor vehicles are disassembled, dismantled, junked or
wrecked, or where two or more motor vehicles not licensed or in operable
condition or used parts of motor vehicles are stored.
      BASE STATION. A station located at a specific site that is authorized to
communicate with mobile stations. The term includes all radio transceivers,
antennas, coaxial cables, power supplies, and other electronics associated with
a station.
      BASEMENT. A story whose floor is more than 12 inches, but not more than
one-half of its story height below the average level of the adjoining grounds
(as distinguished from a “cellar”, which is more than one-half below such
level).
      BLOCK. Property having frontage on one side of a street and lying between
two nearest or intersecting or intercepting streets, or nearest intersecting or
intercepting street and railroad right-of- way or waterway.
      BOARD. The Board of Zoning Appeals of Wayne County, Indiana.
      BOAT LIVERY. A lakeside or stream side operation and premises where boats
for lease, storage and service may be conducted; this service shall include
supplies and accessories as are customarily used in such business.
      BROADBAND or HIGH-SPEED INTERNET ACCESS. A transmission technique using a
wide range of frequencies that enables messages, including voice, video and
data, to be sent digitally, simultaneously, used in fast Internet connections
over a minimum of five different platforms: fiber optic cable (transmits
through glass fibers), digital subscriber line (DSL transmits through existing
copper telephone lines), cable modem (transmits through TV cables), Wireless
(fixed or mobile, connects to local Internet service via electromagnetic waves)
and Satellite (transmits through two to three-foot dish, modem and clear line
of sight to a satellite). Broadband service is one of many kinds of
communications services classified by the Federal Communications Commission.
Broadband equipment can be installed on a wireless support structure, a
building, structure (silo, grain elevator, water tower, etc.), a dedicated
pole, a light pole, electrical poles/transmission lines and telephone pole/
lines.
      BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have
been provided.
      BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, used
or intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals,
chattels or property. When such a structure is divided into separate parts by
one or more un-pierced walls extending from the ground up, each part is deemed
a separate BUILDING.
      BUILDING AREA. The maximum horizontal projected area of a building or
structure at or above grade, excluding cornices, eaves, gutters, unenclosed
porches, terraces, balconies or steps.
      BUILDING COVERAGE. The percentage of the plot or lot area covered by the
building area.
      BUILDING DETACHED. A building having no structural connection with
another building.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average
elevation of the proposed finished grade at the front wall of the building to
the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or to the deck line of a
mansard roof, or to the mean height level between eaves and ridge for gable,
hip or gambrel roofs.
      BUILDING LINE. The line established by the minimum setback from the
street right-of-way for buildings or structures for the distance involved. The
BUILDING LINE shall be the point at which the lot width shall be measured.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main or
principal use of the lot on which said building is situated. Where a
substantial part of the wall of a PRINCIPAL BUILDING is shared by an accessory
building or where an accessory building is attached to the principal building
in other substantial manner as by roof, such accessory building shall be
counted as a part of the PRINCIPAL BUILDING.
      BUSINESS (COMMERCIAL). The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter,
exchange of goods, wares, merchandise or services, the maintenance or operation
of offices or recreational and amusement enterprises for profit.
      BUSINESS, LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT. A large scale commercial development
is a tract of land not less than five acres for non-residential development,
which is planned for development as units under single ownership and control
and which includes two or more non-residential principal buildings.
      BUSINESS, NEIGHBORHOOD OR LOCAL. Commercial establishments which cater to
and can be located in close proximity to residential districts without creating
excessive congestion, noise or other objectionable influence.
      BUSINESS, OFFICE. Office or agencies which conduct service establishment,
without a stock of goods such as real estate, insurance and the like.
      BUSINESS, SERVICE. Any profit-making activity which renders services
primarily to other commercial or industrial enterprises, or which services and
repairs appliances and machines used in business and homes.
      CAMPING GROUNDS. A parcel of land used or intended to be used for
temporary occupancy by campers, or for temporary occupancy by or of
recreational vehicles, tents, cabins or other temporary accommodations.
      CARRIER ON WHEELS OR CELL ON WHEELS (COW) or MOBILE STATIONS. A portable
self-contained wireless communications facility that can be moved to a location
and set up to provide wireless services on a temporary or emergency basis. A
COW is normally vehicle- mounted and contains a telescoping boom as the antenna
wireless support structure.
      CELLAR. A story having more than one-half of its height below the average
level of the finished grade of the adjoining ground.
      CEMETERY. Land used for the burial of the dead and dedicated for cemetery
purposes, including columbariums, crematories, mausoleums and mortuaries when
operated in connection with and within the boundaries of such cemetery.
      CENTERLINE. The centerline of the traveled roadway.
      CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A document issued by the Zoning Inspector
certifying that a building, structure and/or its use or the use of the premises
conform with the provisions of this chapter or, in case of a “non-conforming
use” that it constitutes such use under terms of this chapter.
      CHANNEL (STREAM BED). A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible
extent, with a definite bed and banks to confine and conduce continuously or
periodically flowing water.
      CLINIC. A place used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick,
ailing, infirm and injured persons, but who are not provided with board or
rooms nor kept overnight on the premises.
      CLUB. A non-profit association of persons who are bona fide members
organized for some common purposes and paying regular dues; not including a
group organized solely or primarily to render a service customarily carried on
as a commercial enterprise.
      CLUB, COUNTRY. A club for golfing, tennis, hunting, fishing, horseback
riding or similar sports.
      CLUB, PRIVATE. A non-profit social organization whose premises are
restricted to its members and their guests.
      CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A planned development in which lots are restricted
to its members and their guests.
      COLLOCATION or CO-LOCATION. The placement or installation of wireless
communications facility on existing structures that include a wireless
communications facility, wireless communications facility with wireless support
structure and wireless support structure, including water towers and other
buildings or structures. The term includes the placement, replacement, or
modification of wireless communications facility within an approved equipment
compound.
      COMMERCIAL DOG BREEDER. A person who maintains more than 20 unaltered
female dogs that are at least 12 months of age.
      COMMERCIAL DOG BROKER. A person who is a Class B licensee under 9 C.F.R.
§ 1.1 and sells 500 dogs or more in a calendar year.
      COMMERCIAL ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY. Any profit-making activity which is
generally related to the entertainment field, such as a motion picture theater,
carnival, cocktail lounge, nightclub, playhouse, concert hall/venue, and
similar entertainment activities, operated indoors or outdoors.
      COMMERCIAL NURSERIES AND GREENHOUSES. The growing of trees, ornamental
shrubs, fruits, vegetables, flowers and houseplants for wholesale and/or
retail, along with the ancillary sale of garden supplies and decorative yard
items, but not including the sale of lawn and yard equipment, fencing or
buildings, and may include an outdoor display area, wherein the preponderance
of the growing operation is inside a building or structure, except for outdoor
nurseries.
      COMMERCIAL RECREATION FACILITY. Recreation facilities operated as a
business and open to the general public for a fee, including agritourism.
      COMMISSION. The Plan Commission of Wayne County, Indiana.
      COMMISSIONERS, COUNTY. The Board of Commissioners of the County of Wayne,
State of Indiana.
      COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A person or an entity that offers
communications service to customers in Indiana, without regard to the
technology or medium used by the person or entity to provide the communications
service. The term includes a provider of commercial mobile service (as defined
in 47 U.S.C. 332).
      COMMUNITY USES. Uses that are available to the general public such as a
public library, public school, hospital, community center, public park and
sports facility.
      CONCEALED WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. Any wireless communications
facility that is integrated as an architectural feature of an existing
structure or any new wireless support structure designed so that the purpose of
the facility or wireless support structure for providing wireless services is
not readily apparent to a casual observer. (Also known as a stealth or
camouflaged wireless communications facility.)
      CONCENTRATED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION (CAFO). The terms “confined feeding
operation” (CFO) and “concentrated animal feeding operation” (CAFO) relate to
the size of the CFO. All farms with 300 or more cattle, 600 or more swine or
sheep, 30,000 or more poultry or 500 or more horses in confinement are CFOs.
CAFOs are larger in animal numbers. For the purpose of this chapter, a CFO and
CAFO are synonymous.
      CONDOMINIUM. A multi-family project of one-family dwelling units which
may consist of one, a part or more than one building wherein the real property
title and ownership are vested in an owner, who has undivided interest with
others in common usage area and facilities which serve the development (I.C.
32-1-6-1).
      CONFINED FEEDING.
         (a)   The confined feeding of animals for food, fur or pleasure
purposes in lots, pens, ponds, sheds or buildings where:
            1.   Animals are confined, fed and maintained for at least 45 days
during any 12-month period; and
            2.   Ground cover or vegetation is not sustained over at least 50%
of the animal confinement area.
         (b)   The term does not include:
            1.   A livestock market where animals are assembled from at least
two sources to be publicly auctioned or privately sold on a commission basis
and that is under state or federal supervision; or
            2.   A livestock sale barn or auction market where animals are kept
for not more than ten days.
         (c)   See 327 I.A.C. 16-2-4 regarding CONFINED FEEDING.
      CONFINED FEEDING OPERATION (CFO).
         (a)   Any confined feeding of at least 300 cattle; 600 swine or sheep
or 30,000 fowl; or animal feeding operations electing to be subject to I.C. 13-
18-10; or animal feeding operations that causes a violation of the state’s
water pollution control laws or any rules of the Water Pollution Control Board
or of I.C. 13-18-10.
         (b)   The CONFINED FEEDING OPERATION includes:
            1.   Manure storage structures;
            2.   Manure treatment systems;
            3.   Feedlot;
            4.   Confinement buildings; or
            5.   Waste liquid handling, storage and treatment systems.
         (c)   See 327 I.A.C. 16-2-5 regarding “confined feeding operation” and
327 I.A.C. 16-2-44 “waste management system”.
      CONSTRUCTION, BEGINNING OF. A substantial change or alteration in the
physical properties of a zoning lot or structure and where the incorporation of
labor and material upon said lot or within said structure will incur
liabilities for labor and materials.
      COVERAGE. The percentage of the plot or lot area covered by the building,
or structure, including accessory buildings and structures.
      DAIRY. A commercial establishment for the manufacture or processing of
dairy products.
      DENSITY. Number of living units permitted per gross acre of land,
exclusive of lands, lying within the boundary of any public highway.
      DEVELOPMENT. The construction of a new building or other structure on a
zoning lot, or the use of a tract of land for a new one.
      DISTRICT or ZONE. The portion of the unincorporated territory of the
county within which certain uniform regulations and requirements or various
combinations thereof apply under the provisions of this chapter.
      DOMESTIC PETS.
         (a)   Animals commonly used as household pets, protection, companions
and for assistance to disabled persons. For the purposes of this chapter,
DOMESTIC PETS are dogs and cats.
         (b)   DOMESTIC PETS are a permitted use in all zone districts so long
as the animals are maintained healthy and humanely within the confines of a
dwelling unit or within the confines of a dwelling unit lot and so long as the
frequency of breeding is limited to one litter per year per household (i.e.,
not one litter per animal). DOMESTIC PETS maintained to the confines of the
dwelling unit or dwelling unit lot shall not exceed more than five animals over
the age of six months.
      DOMESTIC PET GROOMING FACILITY. Any lot or premises on which is located a
facility to primarily groom domestic pets. The domestic pets brought to the
facility to be groomed would typically be held at the facility for less than 24
hours. Should the typical holding time for a domestic pet at a grooming
facility more often than not exceed a 24-hour period, the facility shall be
considered a boarding facility.
      DOMESTIC PET STORE. Any lot or premises on which domestic pets are
primarily sold for remuneration. It may include animal food and other domestic
pet supplies for sale to the general public. A DOMESTIC PET STORE does not
include the breeding or boarding of domestic pets.
      DORMITORY. A building or part of a building operated by an institution
and containing a room or rooms forming one or more habitable units which are
used or intended to be used by residents of the institution for living and
sleeping, but not for cooking or eating purposes.
      DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment which is designed to provide
either wholly or partly, service to customers while in their automobile parked
upon the premises.
      DRIVE-IN MOVIE. An open lot or part thereof , with appurtenant facilities
devoted primarily to the showing of moving pictures, on a paid admission basis,
to patrons seated in automobiles or outdoor seats.
      DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. Any place or premises used for sale, dispensing or
serving food, refreshments or beverages in automobiles, including those
establishments where customers may serve themselves and may eat or drink the
food refreshments or beverages on the premises.
      DUMP. A lot or land or part thereof used primarily for the disposal by
abandonment, dumping, burial, burning or any other means, and for whatever
purpose, of garbage, sewage, trash, refuse, junk, discarded machinery,
vehicles, or parts thereof, or waste material of any kind.
      DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof, designed or used exclusively
as the residence or sleeping place of one or more persons, but not including a
tent, recreational vehicle, boarding or lodging house, motel, hotel, or tourist
home.
      DWELLING CODE, ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY. The nationally recognized model
Building Code prepared by the Council of American Building Officials, as
adopted by the Indiana Administrative Building Council (ABC) and which includes
those supplements and amendments promulgated by the ABC.
      DWELLING, DETACHED. A dwelling which is designed to be and is
substantially separate from any other structure or structures, except accessory
buildings.
      DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof designed for or
used exclusively for residential purposes by three or more families living
independently of each other.
      DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY OR SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed for or used
exclusively for residence purposes by one family only.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed for or used exclusively for
residence purposes by two families living independent of each other.
      DWELLING, SPECIAL PLACEMENT. Any building or premises occupied by three
or more persons not related to the owner, lessee or operator by blood, marriage
or adoptions, who upon their release as patients from any recognized mental
institution, treatment ward for alcoholism, treatment center for narcotic
addicts or as an inmate of any correctional penal institution, use such
building or premises as living facilities in order to secure non-
institutionalized care in their attempt to re-enter society.
      DWELLING UNIT, ACCESSORY or ADU (also known as a GRANNY FLAT OR IN-LAW
COTTAGE). A detached dwelling installed on a permanent foundation that is an
accessory use to the main dwelling on the same property and is commonly used
for generational occupancy of a property. Development Standards:
         (a)   Restricted to districts which permit residential use and
districts which have legal non-conforming residential use, with the exception
of subdivisions.
         (b)   An ADU is not permitted without a primary single-family
dwelling.
         (c)   The owner of the property must reside in either the primary
dwelling or the accessory dwelling unit.
         (d)   There shall be a minimum separation of 100 feet between the ADU
and the primary dwelling in the Agricultural and Commercial Districts and on
property with a legally non-conforming primary dwelling.
         (e)   There shall be a minimum separation of 50 feet between the ADU
and the primary dwelling in the Residential Districts.
         (f)   A maximum of one ADU is permitted per parcel.
         (g)   An ADU must have a minimum of 576 square feet of living area.
         (h)   An ADU must contain, at minimum, a kitchen, living area, a
single bedroom and bathroom.
         (i)   An ADU may not exceed one and one-half stories in height, with
the exception of an ADU above a detached garage, which may not exceed 30 feet
in overall height.
         (j)   An ADU may not be a mobile home.
         (k)   The ADU must be provided with a minimum of one off-street
parking space in addition to the off-street parking required for the primary
dwelling.
         (l)   All minimum residential code/ordinance requirements for septic,
zoning and construction shall be met.
      EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION. Public or parochial pre-primary, primary, grade,
junior high, high, preparatory school or academy; junior college, college or
university, if public, or founded or conducted by or under the sponsorship of a
religious or charitable organization.
      EASEMENT. A strip of land to be used by the general public, a
corporation, a utility company, or a certain person(s) for a specific reason,
for purposes of providing services to property.
      ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION TOWER. A structure that physically supports high
voltage overhead power lines. The term does not include a utility pole.
      EQUIPMENT COMPOUND. The area that surrounds or is near the base of a
wireless support structure and encloses a wireless communications facilities
with wireless support structure.
      EXISTING STRUCTURE. Previously erected wireless support structure or any
other structure, including but not limited to, buildings and water tanks, to
which wireless communications facilities can be attached. The term does not
include a utility pole or an electrical transmission tower.
      EXTRACTION OPERATION. The removal of soil, gravel, sand or dirt for
purposes unrelated to excavation for construction where the excavation for
construction where the extractive operation is conducted; this shall include
the extraction of mining of minerals or the extraction of oil or other
hydrocarbons.
   FALL ZONE. The area within which the wireless support structure may be
expected to fall in the event of a structural failure, as certified by
engineering standards.
      FAMILY. A person living alone, or two or more persons living together as
a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit, as distinguished from a group
occupying a boarding or lodging house, motel or hotel, fraternity or sorority
house.
      FAMILY, GROUP HOME. A residential facility, licensed by the State Board
of Health, that provides residential services for not more than eight
developmentally disabled persons, none of whom has a history of violent or
antisocial behavior, and such staff, not to exceed two at any one time, as are
necessary to adequately manage the home.
      FARM. A tract of five or more acres land which is devoted to agriculture
use and including necessary farm buildings or structures essential to the
operation of the farm.
      FARM, ALCOHOL, PRODUCTION SYSTEM. The equipment and facilities necessary
to produce alcohol for fuel or as an additive to other fuels, production not to
exceed 100,000 gallons annually.
      FARM BUILDING. Any building used for the housing of agriculture
equipment, produce, livestock or poultry, or for the incidental or customary
processing of farm products; and, provided that, such building is necessary to
the operation of the farm. The term FARM BUILDING shall not include “farm
dwelling.”
      FARM DWELLING. A building or dwelling unit designed for or occupied
exclusively by a farm family with the usual accessory buildings.
      FILTER STRIP. A filter strip is a relatively uniform and maintained
vegetated area used for collecting sediment and cleansing run-off. See 327
I.A.C. 16-2-12 regarding “filter strips”.
      FLEA MARKET. Any area where individual stands or spaces are assigned to
two or more individuals for the purpose of selling, buying or exchanging goods.
      FLOOD. The water of any river or stream which is above the band and/or
outside the channel and banks of such river or stream; and also the water of
any lake which is above and outside the banks thereof.
      FLOOD, CONTROL. The prevention of floods, the control, regulation,
diversion or confinement of flood water or flood flow and the protection
therefrom, according to sound and accepted engineering practice, to minimize
the extent of floods, and the death, damage and the destruction caused thereby,
and all things incidental thereto or connected therewith.
      FLOOD HAZARD AREA. The part of the floodplain not adequately protected
from flooding by means of structural improvements.
      FLOOD, HUNDRED YEAR. A flood having an average frequency of occurring in
the order of one in 100 years, or a 1% chance of occurring in any given year.
      FLOODPLAIN. The area adjoining a stream that has been or may be covered
by flood water, including the floodway and floodway fringe.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel, which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the flood water or flood flow of any river or stream.
      FLOODWAY FRINGE.
         (a)   The part of the flood hazard area lying outside the floodway.
         (b)   Special definitions pertaining to FLOODWAY and FLOOD FRINGE
determinations only follow.
            1.   BUILDING. See STRUC-TURE.
            2.   DEVELOP MENT.
               a.   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including but not limited to:
                  i.    Construction, recon-struction or placement of a
building or any addition to a building valued at more than $1,000;
                  ii.    Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a
site for a manufactured home or installing a travel trailer on a site for more
than 180 days;
                  iii.    Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences,
construction of roads or similar projects;
                  iv.    Construction of flood control structures such as
levees, dikes, channel improvements and the like;
                  v.    Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation or
drilling operations;
                  vi.    Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or
culverts;
                  vii.    Storage of materials; or
                  viii.    Any other activity that might change the direction,
height or velocity of flood or surface waters.
               b.   DE VELOPMENT does not include activities such as the
maintenance of existing buildings and facilities such as painting, re-roofing;
resurfacing roads; or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices
that do not involve filling, grading, excavation or the construction of
permanent buildings.
            3.   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
            4.   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR
SUBDIVISION. The preparation of additional sites by the construction of
facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be
affixed (including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets
and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
            5.   FHBM. Flood Hazard Boundary Map.
            6.   FIRM. Flood Insurance Rate Map.
            7.   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual
and rapid accumulation or the run-off of surface waters from any source.
            8.   FLOODPLA IN. The channel proper and the area adjoining any
wetland, lake or watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the
regulatory flood, the floodplain includes both the floodway and the floodway
fringe districts.
            9.   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE or FPG. The elevation of the regulatory
flood, plus two feet and any given location in the SFHA.
            10.   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest of the following:
               a.   The basement floor;
               b.   The garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of the
building:
               c.   The first floor of buildings elevated on pilings or
constructed on a crawl space with permanent openings; or
               d.   The floor level of any enclosure below an elevated building
where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to the flow of flood
waters unless:
                  i.    The walls are designated to automatically equalize the
hydrostatic flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
flood waters, through providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to
doorways and windows) having a total area of one square foot for every two
square feet of enclosed floor area subject to flooding. The bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the enclosed area’s floor; or
                  ii.    Such enclosed space shall be usable for non-
residential purposes and building access.
            11.    MANUFACTURED HOMES. See definition of Manufactured Homes
Type I, Type II and Type III, Number 154, 155, 156. See definition of
“Manufactured Home Park of Subdivision Number 161”.
            12.    RECREATIONAL VEHICLES. See definition of Recreational
Vehicles Number 204.
            13.   MOBILE HOME TIE DOWN. See tie down provision in §
156.415 of this chapter.
            14.    REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure
which is acceptable to and approved by the State Natural Resources Commission.
The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE FLOOD.
            15.   SFHA or SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Those lands within the
jurisdiction of the county that are subject to inundation by the regulatory
flood. The SFHAs of the county are generally identified as such on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map of the county prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and dated 9-2-1982. The SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated county
that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city or that may be
annexed into the city are generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map prepared for the county by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
dated 9-2-1982.
            16.   STRUCTUR E. A structure that is principally above-ground and
is enclosed by walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage
tank, a manufactured home or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on a site for more
than 180 days.
            17.    SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition or other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds 40% of the market value of the structure before the “start of
construction” of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred “substantial damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code requirements or
any alteration of a “historic structure”; provided that, the alteration will
not preclude the structures continued designation as a “historic structure”.
      FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the floor or floors
of a building which are enclosed and usable for human occupancy or the conduct
of business. Said areas shall be measured to the outside surface of exterior
walls. Said areas shall not include cellars or attics not used or intended to
be used for human occupancy or other use, garage space or accessory buildings.
      FLOOR AREA RATIO. The quotient of the floor area of a building divided by
the lot area.
      FOUNDATION. Consists of a substructure which has a continuous wall of
cement blocks, poured concrete or masonry equivalent, enclosing and supporting
the bottom of the structure, excluding windows and doors.
      FRONTAGE. All the property abutting on one side of a public right-of-way.
      FUNERAL HOME. A structure used and occupied by a professional licensed
mortician for burial preparation and funeral services.
      GARAGE, PUBLIC PARKING. A principle or accessory building, other than a
private garage, used for parking or temporary storage of licensed and operable
motor vehicles, whether for compensation, free, or as an accommodation for
clients or customers and in which no service is provided.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. A garage used for storage purposes only and having a
capacity of not more than three motor vehicles or not more than two motor
vehicles per family housed in the building to which such garage is accessory,
whichever is greater.
      GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any garage other than a private garage, available to the
public, operated for gain, and which is used for storage, rental, greasing,
washing, servicing, adjusting or equipping of automobiles or other motor
vehicles.
      GARAGE SALES. Any sale of goods or merchandise by one or more people
which is conducted within or adjacent to a garage, patio or porch.
      GOVERNING BODY. The body of local government having the power to adopt
and/or amend ordinances.
      GRADE. The percent of slope that a proposed or existing surface makes
with the horizontal. Also, the elevation of an existing or proposed surface.
      GRADE, FINISHED. The completed surface of lawns, walks and roads brought
to grades as shown on official plans on designs related thereof.
      GRAVEL PIT. A lot or land or part thereof used for the purpose of
extracting stone, sand or gravel for sale as commercial operations.
      HEALTH FACILITY. Any building, structure, institution or other place for
the reception, accommodation, board, care or treatment of more than two
unrelated individuals requiring, in apparent need of, or desiring such services
or combination of them, by reason of age, senility, physical or mental illness,
infirmity, injury, incompetency, deformity or any physical, mental or emotional
disability or other impairment, illness or infirmity, including institutions
commonly known as nursing homes, homes for the aged, retirement homes, boarding
homes for the aged, sanitariums, convalescent homes, homes for the chronically
ill, homes for the indigent. The term HEALTH FACILITY does not include hotels,
motels or mobile homes when used as such; hospitals, mental hospitals,
institutions operated by the federal government; boarding homes for children;
schools for the deaf or blind; day schools for the retarded; day nurseries;
children’s homes or child placement agencies or those defined in I.C. 16-10-2-
3.
      HEALTH OFFICER. The Wayne County, Indiana, Health Officer or his or her
authorized representative.
      HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the highest point on a structure,
excepting any chimney or antenna on a building, to the average grade where the
walls or other structural elements intersect the ground.
      HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance measured from the average
ground level of the grade line about the building to the mean height between
eaves and ridge for pitched roofs, and to the highest part of the roof for flat
roofs.
      HEIGHT OF BUILDING, HOW MEASURED. The vertical distance measured from the
top of the foundation to the highest point of the building, excepting any
chimney or antennae.
      HISTORIC AND CULTURAL LANDMARK. A building, structure, object, district,
land use, area or site of historical significance and designated as a
historical landmark on the Register of Historic and Cultural Landmarks.
      HOME OCCUPATION. See §§
156.420 through
156.422.
      HOSPITAL. An institution licensed by the State Board of Health and
providing health services primarily for in-patient medical or surgical care of
the sick or injured and including related facilities such as laboratories, out-
patient departments, emergency care facilities, training facilities, central
service facilities and staff offices which are an integral part of the
facility; provided, such institution is operated by, or treatment is given
under direct supervision of a licensed physician. Types of HOSPITALS include
general, mental, chronic disease and allied special hospitals such as cardiac,
contagious disease, maternity, orthopedic, cancer and the like.
      HOSPITAL, ANIMAL or VETERINARY CLINIC. An area designated for the
specific use of hospitalization and treatment of both large and small animals,
including the housing of diagnostic equipment, including radiographic
instruments, and facilities for attending to the medical and surgical needs for
animals in general.
      HOTEL. Any building or portion thereof used as a temporary abiding place
for remuneration, with or without meals, containing 12 or more guest rooms or
suites with no provisions for cooking in any individual room or suite.
      HOUSE BOARDING or LODGING HOUSE. A dwelling or part thereof where meals
and/or lodging are provided, for compensation, for five or more persons, not
transients.
      HOUSE, FRATERNITY or SORORITY HOUSE. A building occupied and maintained
exclusively for students affiliated with an academic or professional college or
university, or other recognized institution of higher learning.
      HOUSE ROOMING. A dwelling or other residential structure in which lodging
facilities are supplied for pay over an extended period of time and
distinguished from tourist home.
      HOUSE, TOURIST – BED AND BREAKFAST. A building or part thereof, other
than a hotel, boarding house, lodging house, resort or motel, where lodging is
provided by a resident family for compensation mainly for transients.
      IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT. A document issued by the Zoning Inspector
authorizing buildings, structures or uses consistent with the terms of this
chapter and for the purpose of carrying out and enforcing its provisions.
      INDUSTRY or INDUSTRIAL. The manufacturing, processing, extraction, heavy
repairing, dismantling, storage or disposal of equipment, raw materials,
manufactured products or wastes. The specific classification of light and
general industrial uses are designated by M-1 and M-2 Industrial Zone
Districts.
      INDUSTRIAL, LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT. A large scale industrial development
is a tract of land not less than ten acres for non-residential development,
which is planned for development as units under single ownership and control
and which includes two or more non- residential principal buildings.
      INDUSTRIAL PARK. A special or exclusive type of planned, industrial area
designed and equipped to accommodate a community of industries, providing them
with all necessary facilities and services in attractive surroundings among
compatible neighbors.
      INSTITUTIONAL USES. Organizations, establishments, foundations,
societies, or the like, devoted to the promotion of a particular cause or
program such as a church, parochial school or charitable organization.
      JUNK. Includes scrap metals and their alloys, bones, used materials and
products (such as rags and cloth, rubber, rope, bottles, old tools and
machinery, automobiles, fixtures, appliances, lumber, boxes or crates, pipe and
pipe fittings), and other manufactured goods that are so worn, deteriorated or
obsolete as to make them unusable in their existing condition, but are subject
to being dismantled for sale of parts.
      JUNK OR SALVAGE YARD. Any area where waste, discarded or salvaged
materials are brought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, stored, disassembled or
handled, including auto wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards
and places or yards for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel
materials and equipment, but not including establishments where such uses are
conducted entirely within a completely enclosed building, and not including
establishments for the sale, purchase or storage of used cars in operable
condition, or storage of materials incidental to manufacturing and agricultural
operation.
      JURISDICTIONAL AREA. The unincorporated territory of Wayne County,
Indiana that the County Plan Commission has jurisdiction of for Planning and
Zoning.
      KENNEL. Any lot or premises or portion thereof on which more than five
domestic pets over six months of age are kept; or on which more than three such
animals are maintained, bred or cared for, in return for remuneration; or are
kept for the purpose of sale. The term KENNEL does not include the boarding or
keeping of animals at a facility where the animal has received veterinary
medicine services.
         (a)   KENNEL, SMALL. Any lot or premises on which there are located up
to and including ten runs, cages, pens and/or domestic pets over six months of
age and where the primary use of the facility is to breed and/or board the
animals, whether on a temporary or long-term basis. The number of domestic pets
over six months of age shall not exceed ten.
         (b)   KENNEL, LARGE. Any lot or premises on which there are located
more than ten, but less than 20, runs, cages, pens and/or domestic pets over
six months of age and where the primary use of the facility is to breed and/or
board the animals, whether on a temporary or long-term basis. The number of
domestic pets over six months of age shall not exceed 20.
         (c)   KENNEL, UNLIMITED. Any lot or premises on which there are
located more than 20 runs, cages, pens and/or domestic pets over six months of
age and where the primary use of the facility is to breed and/or board the
domestic pets, whether on a temporary or long-term basis.
      LABORATORY. A place devoted to experimental study such as testing and
analyzing. Manufacturing, assembly or packing of products is not included
within this definition.
      LANDFILL, SANITARY. A method of disposing of refuse on land without
creating nuisance or hazard to public health or safety, by utilizing principles
of engineering to confine the refuse to the smallest practical area, to reduce
it to the smallest practical volume, and to cover it with compacted layer of
suitable material at the conclusion of each day and at more frequent intervals
as necessary.
      LIVESTOCK SALES YARD. A tract of land, which is used for the sale of
domestic animals such as cattle, sheep, horses and hogs.
      LIVING AREA. The area comprised of the enclosed occupied living
accommodations within a residence exclusive of basements, garages and open
porches.
      LOADING SPACE. An off-street space or berth on the same lot with a
building or contiguous to a group of buildings, for the temporary parking of a
commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials, and
which abuts upon a street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
      LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a principal
building or group of such buildings and accessory buildings, or utilized for a
principal use and uses accessory thereto, together with such open spaces as
required by this chapter, having at least the minimum area required by this
chapter for a lot in the zone in which lot is situated and having its principal
frontage on a public street or road.
      LOT AREA. The computed area contained within the lot’s lines.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their
intersection or upon two parts of the same street, such streets or parts of the
same street forming an interior angle of less than 135 degrees. The point of
intersection of the street lines is the corner.
      LOT, COVERAGE. The percentage of the lot area that is occupied by the
ground area of a building and its accessory buildings.
      LOT, DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
      LOT, FRONTAGE. The linear distance of a lot measured at the front lot
line where said lot abuts a street, measured between side lot lines.
      LOT INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
      LOT, LINES. The lines separating the lot from a street, alley or other
lots.
      LOT LINE, FRONT. The line separating the lot from the street on the
established or proposed right-of-way lines, whichever is the greater, but in no
case shall the line be less than 25 feet from the centerline of the existing or
proposed street.
      LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot
line.
      LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than front or rear lot line. A SIDE
LOT LINE separating a lot from a street is called a SIDE STREET LOT LINE. A
SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from another lot or lots is called an INTERIOR
SIDE LOT LINE.
      LOT LINE, STREET OR ALLEY. A lot line separating the lot from a street or
alley.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
      LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines
measured at right angles to its depth at the building line.
      LOTS OF RECORD. A lot which is a part if a subdivision, the plat of which
has been recorded in the office of the County Recorder or a lot described in a
deed by metes and bounds which has been recorded in said office prior to the
effective date of this chapter.
      MAJOR HIGHWAY PLAN. The part of the Master Plan, now or hereafter adopted
by the county, which sets forth the location, alignment, dimensions,
identifications and classification of existing and proposed public streets,
highways and other thoroughfares.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with a permanent foundation and connected to the required utilities, including,
but not limited to, plumbing, sanitation and electric. The structure shall bear
the label of a HUD manufactured home that indicates the home has been inspected
in accordance with the requirements of Housing and Urban Development and is
constructed in conformance with the Federal Manufactured Home Constructions and
Safety Standards in effect on the date of manufacture.
      MANUFACTURED HOME OR MOBILE HOME ADDITION. The reconstruction, extension
or alteration of an existing manufactured home or mobile home meeting the
following: the addition shall be factory designed for the existing manufactured
home or mobile home meeting the standards of the Manufactured Housing
Association, or meet the requirements of the Building Code of the county for a
single-family dwelling.
      MANUFACTURED HOME OR MOBILE HOME LOT. A designated site within a
manufactured home or mobile home park for the exclusive use of the occupants of
the home.
      MANUFACTURED HOME OR MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land upon which two or
more homes are harbored for the purpose of being occupied as principal
residences and includes all real and personal property used in the operation of
the home park.
      MANUFACTURED HOME OR MOBILE HOME SUPPORT SYSTEM. A combination of
footers, piers, caps and shims that will, when properly installed, support a
house.
      MANUFACTURED HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS CODES. Title VI of
the 1974 Housing and Community Development Act (Pub. Law No. 93-383, U.S. C.
5401 et sequential), as amended (previously known as the Federal Mobile Home
Construction and Safety Act), rules and regulations adopted thereunder, which
include information supplied by the home manufacturer, (which has been stamped
and approved by a design approval primary inspection agency, who is an agent of
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development pursuant to HUD rules),
and regulations and interpretations of said code by the State Administrative
Building Council.
      MANURE. Any liquid or solid animal excreta or waste liquid or
contaminated runoff and any other materials commingled with the manure.
      MASTER PLAN, COMPREHENSIVE. The complete plan, or any of its parts, for
the development of the county, prepared by the Commission and adopted in
accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-501 et seq., and all acts amendatory thereto; and
are now or may hereafter be in effect.
      MICRO WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM. A structure-mounted wind system that
is mounted on an existing structure that has a nameplate capacity
(manufacturer’s rating) of less than ten kilowatts and projects no more than 15
feet above the highest point of the roof; such building-mounted wind systems
shall not be considered a wind energy conversion system.
      MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small cell facility to which both of the
following apply:
         (a)   The small cell facility is not larger in dimension than:
            1.   Twenty-four inches in length;
            2.   Fifteen inches in width; and
            3.   Twelve inches in height.
         (b)   If the small cell facility has an exterior antenna, the exterior
antenna is not longer than 11 inches.
      MINOR MODIFICATION. Any improvement to existing structures that do not
qualify as substantial modifications, do not result in an increase to the fall
zone to an extent that would result in a violation of the setback requirement
and that is eligible for administrative review and approval.
      MOBILE HOME. A vehicle which is so constructed as to permit it being used
as a conveyance upon public streets or highways by either self-propelled or not
self-propelled means, and is designed, constructed, reconstructed or added to
by means of an enclosed addition or room, to permit the occupancy as a
dwelling. The vehicle may be placed upon a permanent foundation, when required
by this chapter, or occupied as a dwelling having no foundation, other than
wheels, jacks, skirting or other temporary supports when permissible by
ordinance. The vehicle shall bear the label of “state mobile off-site
fabricated structure”, certified under 675 I.A.C. 22-15-4-2, and subsequent
amendments.
      MODEL. A structure placed or erected for the purpose of showing room
arrangements and/or other factors valuable in promoting lot sales.
      MODULAR HOME. A structure to be used as a dwelling that is constructed or
prefabricated, in part or in whole, at a place other than the permanent
foundation site. The structure is to be constructed to the Residential Code for
One- and Two-Family Dwellings in effect on the date of construction and shall
be placed upon a permanent foundation and shall be connected to the required
utilities, including, but not limited to, plumbing, sanitation and electric.
The structure shall bear the label of “state modular off-site fabricated
structure”, certified under 675 I.A.C. 22-15-4-1, and subsequent amendments.
      MONOPOLE. A single, freestanding pole-type structure supporting one or
more antenna. For purposes of this chapter, a monopole is not a tower.
      MOTEL or MOTOR HOTEL. A series of attached, semi-attached or detached
sleeping or living units, for the accommodation of transient guests and not
customarily including cooking or kitchen facilities, said units having
convenient access to off-street parking spaces for the exclusive use of guests
or occupants.
      NATURAL AREAS. A non-renewable resource of specific biotic communities
which are indigenous to the county.
      NON-CONFORMING BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURE. A building or structure, legally
existing at the time of adoption of this chapter or any amendments thereto,
which is designed or located upon a lot and intended for a use which does not
conform to the regulations of the district in which it is located.
      NON-CONFORMING BULK. A lot of record existing at the time of adoption of
this chapter which does not have the minimum width or contain the minimum area
for the zone in which it is located.
      NON-CONFORMING USE. The use of a building, structure or land legally
existing at the time of adoption of this chapter or any amendments thereto, or
any previously existing ordinance and amendment thereto, and which does not
conform with the use regulations of the district in which it is located.
      NURSERY, PLANT MATERIALS. Land, buildings, structure or combination
thereof for the storage, cultivation, transplanting of live trees, shrubs or
plants offered for retail sale on the premises including products used for
gardening and landscaping.
      NURSING HOME.
         (a)   A facility licensed by the State Board of Health which:
            1.   Provides nursing services on a continuing basis;
            2.   Admits the majority of the occupants upon the advice of
physicians as ill or infirm persons requiring nursing services;
            3.   Provides for licensed physicians service or supervision;
            4.   Maintains medical records; or
            5.   Such facilities may also provide other similar medical or
health services.
         (b)   Examples of NURSING HOME FACILITIES that provide health services
may include, if they comply with all the above criteria, nursing homes,
convalescent homes, rest homes, homes for the aged and the like but not
including a hospital or mental health center.
      OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, embankment, levee, dike, pile, protection,
excavation, channel, rectification, bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire
fence, rock, gravels, refuse, fill structure or matter in, along, across or
projecting into any channel, watercourse or encroachment area which may impede,
retard or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself or by
catching or collecting debris carried by such water, or that it is placed where
the flow of the water might carry the same downstream.
      OFF-SITE MANURE. Manure that is produced by an animal or poultry
husbandry activity, or by a CFO or CAFO and is used or stored at a location
that is not owned or under the control of the same person or entity whose CFO,
CAFO, animal or poultry husbandry produced the manure.
      ORDINANCE. The Wayne County, Indiana, Zoning Ordinance, and all
amendments thereto.
      ORDINARY MAINTENANCE. Ensuring that wireless communications facilities,
wireless communications facilities with wireless support structure and wireless
support structures are kept in good operating condition. Ordinary maintenance
includes inspections, testing and modifications that maintain functional
capacity, aesthetic and structural integrity; for example, the strengthening of
a wireless support structure's foundation or of the wireless support structure
itself. Ordinary maintenance includes replacing antennas of a similar size,
weight, shape and color and accessory equipment within an existing wireless
communications facility with wireless support structure and relocating the
antennas of approved wireless communications facilities to different height
levels on an existing monopole or tower upon which they are currently located.
Ordinary maintenance does not include minor and substantial modifications.
      PARENT TRACT. A parcel of land as it was legally described in the records
of the Wayne County Recorder's Office on March 10, 1993, the adoption date of
the Wayne County, Indiana Zoning Ordinance, located within the zoning
jurisdiction of the Wayne County, Indiana Advisory Plan Commission.
      PARK, PLAYGROUND or GAME COURT. An open air recreational facility which
is not accessory to any other use on the same or any other lot, but excluding
amusement parks and play grounds.
      PARK, PLAYGROUND OR GAME COURT, COMMERCIAL. Recreation facilities
operated as a business and open to the general public for a fee.
      PARK, PLAYGROUND OR GAME COURT, PRIVATE. Recreational facilities operated
for restricted use in conjunction with a particular housing development or
private residence, open only to the residents and guests of said development or
private residence.
      PARK, PLAYGROUND OR GAME COURT, RESTRICTED. Recreational facilities
operated as a non-profit enterprise by a government or non-profit organization,
and open to the general public.
      PARKING AREA, PRIVATE. An open, surfaced area, other than a street or
public way, designed, arranged and made available for the temporary parking of
motor vehicles, of occupants of the building or buildings for which the parking
area is developed and is accessory.
      PARKING AREA, PUBLIC. An open, surfaced area, other than a street or
public way, designed, arranged and made available for the temporary parking of
motor vehicles, and available to the public, whether for compensation, free or
as an accommodation for clients or customers.
      PARKING SPACE. An area, either within a structure or in the open,
exclusive of driveways or access drives, for the parking of a single motor
vehicle.
      PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An off-street area suitable for vehicular
parking and having access to a street or public way.
      PERFORMANCE, STANDARD. A criterion established in the interest of public
health and safety for the control of noise, odor, smoke, noxious gases and
other objectionable or dangerous elements generated by and inherent in, or
incidental to, certain uses and activities.
      PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, cooperative
organization or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a natural person.
      PERSONAL SERVICES. Any enterprise conducted for gain which primarily
offers services to the general public as shoe repair, watch repair, barber
shops, beauty shops and similar activities.
      PLANNED DEVELOPMENT (DEVELOPMENT UNIT PROJECT). A residential,
commercial, industrial or community development on a parcel of land in single
ownership and consisting of two or more buildings having any yard, court,
parking or loading space in common.
      POOL, SWIMMING (PRIVATE). A swimming pool, used only by the owner of the
pool and friends, as an accessory use at a private residence.
      POOL, SWIMMING (PUBLIC). Any swimming pool other than a private swimming
pool, public or semi-public in character.
         (a)   CLUB SWIMMING POOL. A swimming pool used by any group or
institution on a non-commercial basis for members and friends only.
         (b)   COMMERCIAL SWIMMING POOL. A public swimming pool which is
operated on a commercial basis or primarily for gain.
      PORCH. A roofed-over structure projecting from the front, side or rear
wall of a building.
      PORCH, ENCLOSED. A porch which contains jalousies, permanent glass or
louvered windows, screens, panels or any other material on one side or all of
its sides projecting from the building.
      PORCH, UNENCLOSED (OPEN). A porch that is not enclosed in any way by
screens, glass, panels or any other material, with the exception of a
balustrade or railing not to exceed three feet in height above the floor of
such porch.
      PREMISES. One or more lots which are in the same ownership and are
contiguous, or separated only by a right-of-way or water body, including all
buildings, structures and improvements.
      PRIMARY COMMUNICATION TOWER. A tower that is used for public
communication purposes. These types of towers include towers for, but are not
limited to, cellular communication, broadband Internet service, micro data
transmissions, emergency services and commercial satellite television
transmitters.
      PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which is conducted the main or
principal use of the lot on which said building is located.
      PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES. The use of offices and related spaces for such
professional services as are provided by medical practitioners, lawyers,
architects, attorneys, engineers and similar professions.
      PROPERTY LINE. The division line between properties of different owners.
      PUBLIC. Owned, operated or controlled by a governmental agency, federal,
state or local.
      PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation, governmental department or
board, duly authorized to furnish and furnishing under state or municipal
regulations to the public, electricity, gas, steam, transportation, water or
telephone service.
      PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SURFACE INTAKE STRUCTURE. Any structure used for the
purpose of providing water through a public water supply system. See statutory
reference 327 I.A.C. 16-2-31 regarding “public water supply surface intake
structure”.
      RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land with tracks and auxiliary
facilities for track operation, but not including depots, loading platforms,
stations, train shed, warehouses, car shops, car yards, locomotive shops or
water towers.
      RECREATION, COMMERCIAL. Recreation facilities operated as a business and
open to the general public for a fee.
      RECREATION EQUIPMENT, MAJOR. Includes, but is not limited to, travel
trailers, campers, pickup coaches, vans, motorized homes, boats and boat
trailers.
      RECREATION, NON-COMMERCIAL, PRIVATE. Clubs or recreation facilities
operated by a non-profit organization and open only to bona fide members and
guests of such non-profit organization.
      RECREATION VEHICLE. A temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and
vacation use, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Travel trailer. A vehicle, identified by the manufacturer as a
trailer, built on a chassis eight feet or less wide and 35 feet or less long,
and designed to move on the highway.
         (b)   Pick-up coach. Structure designed to be mounted on a truck
chassis or cut down car or truck.
         (c)   Fifth-wheel coach. Structure designed to be mounted in a truck
bed and pulled on the highway, built on a chassis eight feet or less wide and
40 feet or less long.
         (d)   Motor homes. A self-propelled vehicle with a dwelling
constructed as an integral part of the vehicle or so altered.
         (e)   Camping trailers. A folding structure built on a chassis with
wheels and designed to move on the highway.
      RECREATION VEHICLE PARK. Any lot, parcel or tract of land approved for
the location of two or more recreational vehicle sites, established for
maintained for occupancy by recreation vehicles of the general public as
temporary living quarters for recreation or vacation purposes.
      RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. A church, temple, chapel, synagogues, convent,
seminary, monastery, nunnery, rectory, parsonages, parish houses and religious
retreats.
      REPAIR. Any construction which replaces materials but does not change the
height, number of stories, size or location of a building or other structure.
      REPLACEMENT. Removing the pre-existing wireless support structure and
constructing a new wireless support structure of proportions and of equal
height or such other height that would not constitute a substantial
modification to a pre-existing wireless support structure in order to support a
wireless communications facility or to accommodate co-location.
      RESIDENCE. A building, or any part of a building, which contains living
and sleeping accommodations for permanent occupancy. This includes all single-
family, two-family, and multi-family dwellings.
      RESTAURANT. Any establishment, however designed, at which food is sold
for consumption on the premises to patrons seated within an enclosed building,
or elsewhere on the premises.
      ROADSIDE STAND. A wholly or partially enclosed shed for the sale of
neighborhood agricultural products and/or other agricultural related products
that are produced on the premises, which stand shall be located so as to permit
customers to drive completely off of the highway while dealing. Permitted home-
based vendor items from I.C. 16-42-5.3, and as amended are: whole and uncut
fruits and vegetables, flowers, unprocessed nuts and legumes, eggs, honey,
molasses, sorghum, maple syrup and mushrooms grown as a produce of agriculture
(wild mushrooms should be certified).
      SANITARIUM, SANATORIUM. A private hospital, whether or not such facility
is operated for profit.
      SATELLITE MANURE STORAGE STRUCTURE (LARGE). A structure and any
associated structures that are designed to store manure, and having a storage
capacity of 1,000,000 gallons or more of liquid manure or 5,000 cubic yards or
more of solid manure. An LSMSS includes, but is not limited to, a building, a
pad, a lagoon, a pit, a pond or a tank.
      SATELLITE MANURE STORAGE STRUCTURE (MEDIUM). A structure and any
associated structures that are used to store off site manure and having a
storage capacity of less than 1,000,000 gallons of liquid manure or less than
5,000 cubic yards of solid manure. An MSMSS includes, but is not limited to, a
building, a lagoon, a pad, a pit, a pond or a tank. The staging of manure is
not synonymous with the storage of manure.
      SCHOOL. An institution consisting of teachers and pupils, irrespective of
age, gathering together for instruction in any branch of learning arts or the
sciences.
      SCHOOL, COLLEGE. Same as elementary and secondary school, except general
education is provided above the level of the secondary school and may include
junior college, college or university.
      SCHOOL, NURSERY. A school designed to provide daytime care in instruction
of two or more children from two to five years of age inclusive, and operated
on a regular basis.
      SCHOOL, VOCATIONAL. Same as elementary school and secondary school;
except that, the primary activity is training in a trade or vocation.
      SCHOOL AND EDUCATIONAL SERVICES. A business college, trade school, music
conservatory, art or dance school or similar organization offering training in
a specific field.
      SCREEN. A fence, wall, row of evergreen hedges or shrubs, row of
supported evergreen vines, or in applicable cases, an accessory building, with
components so located, spaced and maintained that it provides an effective
visual barrier, six feet or more in height.
      SCREENED, EFFECTIVELY. A particular use shall be considered effectively
screened when barriers of sufficient height and density are provided so as to
reduce the transmission of light and sound into adjacent property.
      SEMI-TRAILER. See TRUCK TRAILER.
      SENSITIVE AREA. A site where conditions poses a specific water quality
threat to one or more of the following: public water supply wells; wellhead
protection areas; drinking water supply reservoirs; identified wetlands, except
for wetlands constructed for manure management; Karst terrain; habitat of an
endangered species; and natural areas including parks, natural preserves as
regulated under I.C. 14-31, historic sites as defined by I.C. 14-8-2-125, and
public lands as defined by I.C. 14-38-1-5. See statutory reference 327 I.A.C.
16-2-34 regarding “sensitive area” and 327 I.A.C. 16-2-21 regarding “karst
terrain”.
      SETBACK. The required distance between a structure or accessory structure
and any lot line on which structure is located.
      SETBACK, FRONT. The distance from the centerline of the right-of-way to
the front wall or that part of the structure nearest the street line, not
including steps or open porches, measured at right angles from the street line,
with the exception of a primary structure, on an irregular shaped parcel,
(e.g., triangle shaped), which is not parallel with the road, but which creates
natural front, side and rear yard areas. See Diagram "A" below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b13e5f68cbdb84e4569995f611153b3ab513d249/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1458.png]
 
      SETBACK, REAR. The distance from the rear lot line of the nearest part of
the structure, measured from the rear lot line.
      SETBACK, SIDE. The distance from the side lot line to the nearest part of
the structure, measured from the side lot line.
      SEWERS, CENTRAL OR GROUP. An approved sewage disposal system which
provides a collection network and disposal system and central sewage treatment
facility for a single development, community or region.
      SEWERS, ON-SITE. A septic tank or similar installation on an individual
lot for the elimination of sewage and provides for the proper and safe disposal
of the effluent, subject to the approval of the County Health Department.
      SHADOW FLICKER. The shadow on the ground and surrounding structures that
is caused by the rotating blades of the WECS.
      SHOPPING CENTER. A group of commercial establishments, planned,
developed, owned and managed as a unit, with off-street parking on the property
and related in its location, size and type of shops to the trade area which the
unit serves.
      SHORT-TERM RENTAL. The rental of an owner's primary residence "for terms
of less than 30 days at a time through a short term rental platform... Is a
permitted residential use under any applicable zoning ordinance of a unit and
may not be disallowed by any zoning ordinance (as defined in I.C. 36-7-1-22) in
a zoning district or classification of a unit that permits residential use."
"The term includes a detached accessory structure, including a guest house, or
other living quarters that are intended for human habitation, if the entire
property is designated for a single family residential use. The term does not
include property that is used for any nonresidential use." (HB1035 signed into
law (I.C. 36-1-24) by Indiana Governor Eric Holcomb on March 14, 2018,
Effective July 1, 2018.)
      SIDEWALK. The portion of the road right-of-way, which is improved for the
use of pedestrian traffic.
      SIGN. Any writing, pictorial representation, emblem, flag or any other
figures of similar character which is a structure or part thereof or is
attached or painted on or in any manner represented on a building or structure;
and is used to announce, direct attention to, or advertise; and is visible from
outside a building. The word SIGN includes the word billboard, but does not
include the flag, pennant or insignia of any nation, state, city or other
political unit, or of any political, educational, charitable, philanthropic,
civic, professional, religious or like campaign, drive, movement or event.
Further, this definition shall not be held to include any board, sign or
surface used to display any official notices issued by any court or public
office or posted by a public officer in the performance of a public duty.
      SIGN, AREA OF. The total exterior surface computed in square feet of a
sign having, but one exposed exterior surface; one-half the total of the
exposed exterior surface computed in square feet of a sign having more than one
surface.
      SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered elsewhere than
on the premises where displayed or only incidentally on the premises.
      SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to an activity, business
or profession conducted on the premises where displayed. A real estate sign
advertising the sale, rental or lease of the premises on which it is
maintained, institutional bulletin boards and a professional or announcement
sign accessory to a home occupation or dwelling shall not be deemed a BUSINESS
SIGN.
      SIGN, EXTERIOR ON-PREMISES. A "sign" which directs attention to a
business, institutional use or community use conducted on the premises where
displayed. A real estate sign advertising the sale, rental, or lease of the
premises on which it is maintained shall not be deemed an "exterior on-premises
sign".
      SIGN, HOME OCCUPATION. Professional or announcement signs accessory to a
Level 1 and Level 3 home occupation shall be subject to their associated
development standards in §§
156.420 through
156.422.
      SITE PLAN. A plan of a lot on which is shown location of all existing or
proposed buildings, structures, rights-of-way, boundaries and all essential
dimensions.
      SMALL CELL FACILITY.
         (a)   1.   A personal wireless service facility (as defined by the
Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 as in effect on July 1, 2015); or
            2.   A wireless facility that satisfies the following requirements:
               a.   Each antenna, including exposed elements, has a volume of
six cubic feet or less.
               b.   The primary equipment enclosure located with the facility
has a volume of 28 cubic feet or less.
         (b)   For purposes of division (a)2.b., the volume of the primary
equipment enclosure does not include the following equipment that is located
outside the primary equipment enclosure: electric meters, concealment
equipment, telecommunications demarcation boxes, ground based enclosures, back-
up power systems, grounding equipment, power transfer switches and cut-off
switches.
      SMALL CELL NETWORK. A collection of interrelated small cell facilities
designed to deliver wireless service.
      SPECIAL EXCEPTION. A use permitted within a district other than a
principally permitted use requiring approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals
because of its unusual nature.
      STAGING. The temporary placement of manure in a pile at the site where
the manure will be land applied. See statutory reference 327 I.A.C. 16-2-37
regarding “staging”.
      STORY. The portion of a building, including between the surface of any
floor and the surface of the floor next above it or, if there be no floor above
it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
      STORY, FIRST. The lowest story or the ground story of any building the
floor of which is not more than 12 inches below the average level of the
adjoining ground at the exterior walls of the building; except that any
basement or cellar used as a dwelling shall be deemed the FIRST STORY.
      STORY, HALF. A story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall plates
of which on at least two opposite exterior walls are not more than three feet
above the floor of such story; provided, however, that, any partial story used
as a dwelling shall be deemed a full story.
      STORY, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the top surface of the floor
to the top surface of the floor next above. The height of the topmost story is
the distance from the surface of the floor to the top surface of the ceiling
joists.
      STORY, MEZZANINE. A story which covers one-third or less of the area of
the story directly underneath it. A MEZZANINE STORY shall be deemed a full
story in case it covers more than one-third of the area of the story directly
underneath it.
      STREET. An area which primarily serves or is intended to serve as a
vehicular or pedestrian access to abutting property or to other streets.
      STREET, APPROVED. Any street, whether public or private, meeting the
standards and specifications of the county.
      STREET, PRIVATE. Any street which is under the jurisdiction of an
individual, corporation or trustee or any street which is privately owned,
established and maintained.
      STREET, PUBLIC. Any right-of-way 50 feet or more in width which provides
a public means of access to abutting property, or any other such right-of-way
more than 20 feet in width and less than 50 feet in width; provided, it existed
prior to the enactment of this chapter which is or will be dedicated for public
use.
      STREET, RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE. A line determining the limit of the highway
rights of public, either existing or contemplated.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, the use of which requires permanent
location on the ground, or attached to something having permanent location on
the ground excluding fences. A pond or lake including a dam or constructed
retainer and any impounded liquid to normal water line shall also be considered
a STRUCTURE within this definition.
      STRUCTURALLY ALTERED. Changes which increase, extend or enlarge the
building or convert the existing building into a different structure or affect
the form of character of an existing building or structure.
      SUBDIVIDE and SUBDIVISION.
         (a)   SUBDIVIDE. The further division of any parent tract, which has
already been legally divided into a maximum of two parcels as described under
Exemption #1, resulting in a lot or lots, each with less than 20 acres of
vacant land for residential, commercial or industrial developmental purposes or
land that has legally been developed for residential, commercial or industrial
use after March 10, 1993, is subject to the control of the Subdivision
Ordinance. All divisions of parcels are subject to the requirements of the
Zoning Ordinance District in which the division occurs unless variance(s) are
granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals or by the Advisory Plan Commission
through the subdivision hearing process.
         (b)   MINOR SUBDIVISION. The division for residential, commercial or
industrial developmental purposes of a parcel into not more than three proposed
lots with less than 20 acres each, which are subject to the control of the
Subdivision Ordinance, and where there is not an opening of a new public way.
         (c)   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. All other divisions for residential,
commercial or industrial developmental purposes of a parcel into proposed lots
with less than 20 acres each, which are subject to the control of the
Subdivision Ordinance, and where a new street or major utility will be required
to be constructed or extended or where adjoining parcels will utilize drainage
improvements.
         (d)   DIVISIONS OF LAND EXEMPT FROM THE SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE.
            1.   The division of any parent tract, since March 10, 1993, into
not more than two parcels with less than 20 acres each for the purpose of
residential, commercial or industrial development, said new parcels being
vacant or legally developed after March 10, 1993, are exempt from the control
of the Subdivision Ordinance, providing each lot can be shown to meet all the
following criteria:
               a.   Each lot has sufficient frontage onto an existing public
thoroughfare, unless exempt by the zone district's development standards.
               b.   Does not involve the construction of a new public
thoroughfare.
               c.   Does not require the extension of a public water and/or
public sewer system nor does the land divided have public water and/or public
sewer available.
               d.   It can be demonstrated that each lot is of sufficient soil
type(s) to support the installation of a private septic system, or each lot can
be served by a regulated sewer system.
               e.   The division of land is not in conflict with any portion of
the Comprehensive Plan or Zoning Ordinance.
               f.   Each lot shall have an approved driveway entrance, or legal
access if no frontage is required by the zone district's development standards.
               g.   The Plan Administrator shall determine that such a division
of land will likely not have an adverse effect on the lands adjoining the
divided properties.
               h.   The division of land does not result in a landlocked
parcel, unless said parcel is exempt from a frontage requirement by the zone
district's development standards or is joined by Auditor's Certificate to an
abutting parcel with sufficient frontage along a public thoroughfare.
            2.   The division of any tract or parcel of land resulting in a new
parcel of 20 acres or more or where all resulting parcels are 20 acres or more,
said new parcels being vacant or legally developed for residential, commercial
or industrial use on or before March 10, 1993, are exempt from the control of
the Subdivision Ordinance.
            3.   The division of any tract or parcel of less than 20 acres,
which encompasses residential, commercial or industrial development legally
existing on or before March 10, 1993, is exempt from the control of the
Subdivision Ordinance.
            4.   A division of land for the transfer of a tract or tracts to
correct errors in an existing legal description, provided that no additional
building sites are created, and no additional public improvements are required
or created.
            5.   A division of land for federal, state, or local government to
acquire right-of-way.
            6.   A division of land for the transfer of a tract or tracts
between adjoining lots provided that no additional building sites are created,
and no additional public improvements are required.
            7.   A division and allocation of land in the settlement of an
estate of a decedent or a court decree for the distribution of property.
            8.   The widening or improvement of an existing public
thoroughfare.
            9.   The division of land for the acquisition of a thoroughfare
right-of-way by a public agency.
            10.   A division of land into lots for the purpose of creating
cemetery plots.
            11.   A division of land of five acres or more, for agricultural
purposes only, with no residential use.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the fair market value of
the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
      SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION. Of a wireless support structure means the
replacement of a wireless support structure and/or the mounting of a wireless
communications facility on a wireless support structure in a manner that: (1)
increases the height of the wireless support structure by the greater of: (A)
10% of the original height of the wireless support structure; or (B) 20 feet;
(2) adds an appurtenance to the wireless support structure that protrudes
horizontally from the wireless support structure more than the greater of: (A)
20 feet; or (B) the width of the wireless support structure at the location of
the appurtenance; (3) increases the square footage of the equipment compound in
which the wireless communications facility is located by more than 2,500 square
feet; or (4) any improvement that results in a structure which fails to meet
the general standards and design requirements for wireless communications
facilities set forth in §§
156.370 through
156.375. The term does not include the following: (1) Increasing the height of
a wireless support structure to avoid interfering with an existing antenna; (2)
Increasing the diameter or area of a wireless support structure to: (A) shelter
an antenna from inclement weather; or (B) connect antenna to the wireless
support structure by cable.
      SUITABLY LANDSCAPED. Landscaped with vegetation of a type sufficient to
effectively screen differing uses, enhance the quality of the environment,
limit erosion and protect the general welfare.
      SURFACE WATER. Water present on the surface of the earth including
streams, lakes, ponds, rivers, swamps, marshes or identified wetlands except
for wetlands constructed for manure management. See statutory reference 327
I.A.C. 16-2-39 regarding “surface water”.
      SWEPT AREA. The outer most diameter of the circle created by a turning
rotor(s) or blade(s) of a WECS.
      TEMPORARY TRACT OFFICE. A structure, placed or constructed for the
purpose of housing personnel and equipment required for development or sale of
the development, which shall be removed when no longer needed.
      TERRACE. An open porch without a permanent roof.
      THEATER. A building or part of a building devoted to showing moving
pictures or stage productions on commercial basis.
      TOTAL HEIGHT. Regarding WECS, the distance measured from the ground level
at the base of the tower to the highest extension of the blade or rotor.
      TOURIST CABINS. A group of buildings, including separate cabins which
contain living and sleeping accommodations for transient occupancy.
      TOWER. A lattice-type structure, guyed or freestanding, that supports one
or more antennas.
      TOWN HOUSE. A building consisting of a series of one-family attached
dwelling units having common party walls between each dwelling unit, and
utilizing common open space and parking.
      TRUCK TRAILER. A non-motorized freight vehicle to be drawn by a
motortruck or a combination of a truck trailer and its motortruck.
      USE. The specific purpose for which land or a building or structure is
arranged, designed or intended, or for which either land or a building, or a
structure is, or may be occupied or maintained.
      USE, PERMITTED. Any building, structure, or use which complies with
applicable regulations of this chapter, governing uses of the zone district in
which such building, structure or use is located.
      USE, PERMITTED FIRST IN ‘X’ DISTRICT. A use which in the sequence of
successively less restricted districts occurs as a permitted use for the first
time in the “X” district.
      USE, PRINCIPAL. The main or primary purpose of which a building,
structure or land is designed, arranged or intended, or for which they may be
used, occupied or maintained under this chapter. The use of any other building,
or structure on the same land and incidental or supplemental thereto and
permitted under this chapter shall be considered an accessory use.
      USE, PROHIBITED. A use of a building, structure, lot or land or part
thereof which is not listed as a permitted or special exception use.
      USE, PUBLIC. Public parks, schools, fire and police stations, libraries,
museums, city and town halls, county courthouses, utility complexes,
fairgrounds and other administrative and cultural buildings and structures, but
not including public land or buildings devoted solely for the storage and
maintenance of equipment and materials and public service facilities.
      USE, QUASI, PUBLIC. Churches, Sunday schools, private and parochial
schools, colleges, hospitals, cemeteries and other facilities of an
educational, religious, charitable, philanthropic or non-profit nature.
      UTILITY POLE. A structure that is owned or operated by public utility,
communications service provider, municipality, electric membership corporation,
or rural electric cooperative and that is designed and used to carry lines,
cables, or wires for telephony, cable television, or electrical transmission,
or to provide lighting. The term does not include a wireless support structure
or an electrical transmission tower.
      USE, TEMPORARY. An activity conducted for specific limited period of time
which may not otherwise be permitted by the provisions of this chapter.
      VEGETATIVE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. An area with vegetation designed to accept
contaminated runoff or waste liquid after settling for the purpose of treatment
or infiltration into the soil. See statutory reference 327 I.A.C. 16-8-10
regarding “vegetative management system”.
      VETERINARY CLINICS (COMMON LARGE, DOMESTICATED ANIMALS). A building or
part of a building in which facilities are provided for the prevention, care,
cure and alleviation of disease and/or injury to large, domesticated animals,
and in conjunction with which there may be facilities provided for the
sheltering of animals during the treatment period. Examples of common large,
domesticated animals are horses, cattle, sheep, pigs, goats, llama, alpaca, and
donkey.
      VETERINARY CLINICS (COMMON SMALL, DOMESTICATED ANIMALS). A building or
part of a building in which facilities are provided for the prevention, care,
cure and alleviation of disease and/or injury to common small, domesticated
animals, and in conjunction with which there may be facilities provided for the
sheltering of animals during the treatment period. Examples of common small,
domesticated animals are dogs, cats, fowl, guinea pigs, ferrets, rabbits, mink,
rats, mice, fish, and reptile.
      VICINITY MAP. A small drawing located on the plat which sets forth the
relationship of a proposed subdivision or use to other nearby developments or
landmarks and community facilities and services within the general area in
order to better locate and orient the area in question.
      WALL. A structure of wood, stone, or other materials or combination
thereof intended for defense, security, screening or enclosure, or for the
retention of earth, stone, fill or other materials as in the case of retaining
walls or bulkheads.
      WALL, PARTY. A wall starting from the foundation and extending
continuously through all stories to or above the roof which separates one
building unit from another and is in joint use by each building unit.
      WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS). The equipment that converts and
then stores or transfers energy from the wind into usable forms of energy and
includes any base, blade, foundation, generator, nacelle, rotor, wind tower,
transformer, turbine, vane, wire or other component used in the system. WECS
shall be classified as either a:
         (a)   LARGE WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM. A WECS that has a nameplate
capacity (manufacturer’s rating) of more than 50 kilowatts per wind tower, or a
total height of more than 100 feet or a swept area of more than 30 feet. Any
WECS meeting one or more of these criteria shall be considered a LARGE WIND
ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM; or
         (b)   SMALL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM. A WECS that has a nameplate
capacity (manufacturer’s rating) of 50 kilowatts or less per wind tower, and a
total height of 100 feet or less, and a swept area of 30 feet or less shall be
considered a SMALL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM.
      WIND FARM. Two or more large wind energy conversion systems on a single
property or aggregated properties.
      WIND TOWER.
         (a)   The monopole, freestanding, or guyed structure that supports the
energy capture, conversion, storage and transfer components of a WECS.
         (b)   These WIND TOWERS are not attached to any building.
      WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY (WCF). The set of equipment and network
components that are: (1) owned and operated by a communications service
provider; (2) necessary to provide wireless communications service and (3)
outside of a dedicated right-of-way. The term does not include a wireless
support structure. For purposes of this chapter the term also includes micro
wireless facility, small cell facility and small cell network.
      WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY WITH WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE
(WCFWWSS). Examples include a lattice or self-supporting tower, a guyed tower
and a monopole, along with accessory equipment, antenna(s), co-located
equipment, ground equipment, including all electrical work, boxes, panels,
electrical platforms with/without canopies, equipment shelter buildings, etc.
all within a security fenced compound with locking gate, outside of a dedicated
right-of-way. The term also includes a concealed wireless communications
facility with or without a security fence depending on the design.
      WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Services, whether mobile or at a fixed
location, that are provided using wireless communications facilities through
licensed or unlicensed spectrum.
      WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE (WSS). A freestanding structure that is
designed to support or is capable of supporting wireless communications
facilities, outside of a dedicated right-of-way. The term does not include a
utility pole or an electrical transmission tower.
      YARD. An open space other than a court, on a lot, unoccupied and
obstructed from the ground upward except as permitted in this chapter.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between
any part of a building not hereafter excepted and the front lot line; and the
depth of a front yard is the minimum horizontal distance between any part of
the building, other than such parts as hereinafter excepted, and the front lot
line.
      YARD, FRONT DEPTH, HOW MEASURED. Yard measurement, for property abutting
a public thoroughfare, shall be made from the centerline of said street or
roadway.
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between a
building and the rear lot line; and the depth of a rear yard is the minimum
horizontal distance between any part of the building, other than such parts as
hereinafter excepted, and the rear lot line.
      YARD, SALES, PRIVATE OR RUMMAGE. A sale of used clothing and/or household
items conducted only by the immediate members of one or two families in a
residence, private garages, porch or yard.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard extending between the front yard and the rear yard
between a building and the nearest side lot line; and the width of a side yard
is the minimum horizontal distance between any part of a building, other than
such parts as hereinafter excepted, and the nearest side lot line.
      YARD, SIDE WIDTH, HOW MEASURED. Side yard width shall be measured from
the nearest side lot line and, in case such lot line is a side street lot line,
from the right-of-way line of the existing street; provided, however, that, if
a proposed right-of-way line of such street has been officially established,
then the required side yard least width shall be measured from such proposed
right-of-way line.
      YARD, SUPPLY. A commercial establishment storing and offering for sale
building supplies, steel, coal, heavy equipment, feed and grain and similar
goods.
      ZONING INSPECTOR. The Zoning and Subdivision Administrator of the county
or his or her authorized representative.
      ZONING MAP. The Zoning Map or maps of the county, together with all
amendments subsequently adopted.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. passed 12-21-1994; Ord. passed 7-1-1997; Ord.
2003-02, passed 3-26-2003; Ord. 2005-009, passed - -2005; Ord. 2009-012, passed
11-18-2009; Ord. 2009-013, passed 11-18-2009; Ord. 2015-002, passed 3-18-2015;
Ord. 2016-010, passed 12-7-2016; Ord. 2019-012, passed 8-21-2019; Ord. 2023-02,
passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.005 COUNTY COMMISSIONERS MAY AMEND ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever the public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience or
general public welfare or good zoning practice require, the County
Commissioners may, by ordinance, after recommendation thereon by the Commission
and subject to the procedure provided in this Section, amend, supplement or
change the regulations, district boundaries or classifications of property now
or hereinafter established by this chapter or amendments thereof. It shall be
the duty of the Commission to submit its recommendations regarding all
applications or proposals for amendments or supplements. An amendment or
supplement to the text of the ordinance may be initiated by the County
Commissioners on its own motion or by a petition of the Plan Commission. A
petition for a change in zone district boundaries or classifications of
property as shown on the zoning map may be initiated by the County
Commissioners on its own motion, by the Plan Commission or by a petition signed
by property owners who own at 5% of the land involved.
   (B)   In preparing and considering proposals to amend or supplement the text
of this chapter or for a change in zone district boundaries or classification
of property as shown on the zoning map, the Plan Commission and the County
Commissioners shall pay reasonable regard to:
      (1)   The Comprehensive Plan;
      (2)   Current conditions and the character of the current structures and
uses in each district;
      (3)   The most desirable use for which the land in each district is
adapted;
      (4)   The conservation of property values throughout the jurisdiction;
and
      (5)   Responsible development and growth.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.006 PROCEDURE FOR CHANGE.
   (A)   Petitions for any change of district boundaries or classifications of
property as shown on the zoning map shall be submitted to the Clerk of the
County Commissioners at their public office, upon such forms and accompanied by
such data and information as may be prescribed for that purpose, so as to
assure the fullest practicable presentation of facts for the permanent record.
Each such petition for a change of district boundaries or a reclassifications
of property submitted by property owners who own at least 50% of the land
involved shall be verified by at least one such owner attesting to the truth
and correctness of all facts and information presented with the petition.
Petitions for amendments submitted by the Plan Commission shall be accompanied
by its own resolution pertaining to such proposed amendment.
   (B)   Before submitting its recommendations on proposed amendments to the
text of this chapter or changes in zone district boundaries or classification
of property as shown on the zoning map to the County Commissioners, the
Commission shall, within 60 days hold a public hearing thereon, notice of which
shall be given by one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county at least ten days before the date of such hearing. Such notice shall
state the place and time at which the proposed amendment to the Ordinance,
including text and maps, may be examined. At least ten days before the date set
for a public hearing, written notices shall be sent to the owners (as reflected
on the transfer records of the Auditor of the county) of all parcels of land
immediately adjacent to the land described in the petition to be heard advising
them of the public hearing.
   (C)   Within ten business days after the Plan Commission determines its
recommendation (if any) on a proposal to amend the text of this chapter, the
Commission shall certify to the County Commissioners a favorable
recommendation, an unfavorable recommendation or no recommendation. The County
Commissioners shall vote on the proposal within 90 days after the Plan
Commission certifies the proposals.
      (1)   If the proposal receives a favorable recommendation from the Plan
Commission, the County Commissioners may, within the 90-day period adopt,
reject or amend the proposal. If the County Commissioners adopt the proposal as
certified, it takes effect as any other ordinance adopted by the Commissioners.
If the Commissioners fail to act on the proposal within 90 days after
certification, it takes effect as if it had been adopted (as certified) 90 days
after certification. If the Commissioners reject or amend the proposal it shall
be returned to the Plan Commission for its consideration, with a written
statement of the reasons for the rejection or amendment. The Plan Commission
has 45 days in which to consider the rejection or amendment and report to the
County Commissioners as follows:
         (a)   If the Commission approves the amendment or fails to act within
the -5 day period, the ordinance stands as passed by the County Commissioners
as of the date of the filing of the Plan Commission’s report of approval with
the County Commissioners or the end of the 45-day period;
         (b)   If the Commission disapproves the rejection or amendment, the
action of the County Commissioners on the original rejection or amendment
stands only if confirmed by another vote of the County Commissioners within 45
days after the Plan Commission certifies its disapproval. If the County
Commissioners fail to confirm their action, the Ordinance takes effect as being
adopted as certified.
         (c)   If the proposal receives either an unfavorable recommendation or
no recommendation from the Plan Commission, the County Commissioners may,
within the 90 days period adopt, reject, or amend the proposal. If the County
Commissioners adopt the proposal as certified, it takes effect as other
ordinances adopted by the Commissioners. If the County Commissioners reject the
proposal or fail to act on it within 90 days after certification, it is
defeated. If the County Commissioners amend the proposal it shall be returned
to the Plan Commission for its consideration, with a written statement of the
reasons for the amendment. The Plan Commission has 45 days in which to consider
the amendment and report to the County Commissioners as follows:
            1.   If the Commission approves the amendment or fails to act
within the 45-day period, the ordinance stands as passed by the County
Commissioners as of the date of the filing Plan Commission’s report of approval
with the County Commissioners or the end of the 45-day period.
            2.   If the Plan Commission disapproves the amendment, the action
of the County Commissioners on the original amendment stands only if confirmed
by another vote of the Commissioners within 45 days after the Plan Commission
certifies its disapproval. If the County Commissioners fail to confirm its
action, the ordinance is defeated.
      (2)   The County Commissioners may take action under this section only by
a vote of at least a majority of all elected members of the body.
   (D)   Upon receiving or initiating a proposal for a change in zone district
boundaries or classification of property as shown on the zoning map, the Plan
Commission shall hold a public hearing within 60 days on the proposal, and
within ten business days after the Commission determines its recommendation,
(if any), the Commission shall certify the proposal to the County Commissioners
with a favorable recommendation, an unfavorable recommendation, or no
recommendation. The County Commissioners shall vote on the proposal within 90
days after the Plan Commission certifies the proposal.
      (1)   If the proposal receives a favorable recommendation from the Plan
Commission, the County Commissioners may, within the 90-day period adopt or
reject the proposal.
         (a)   If the County Commissioners adopt the proposal as certified, it
takes effect as other ordinances adopted by the Commissioners.
         (b)   If the County Commissioners reject the proposal, it is defeated.
         (c)   If the County Commissioners fail to act on the proposal within
90 days after certification, the ordinance takes effect as if it had been
adopted as certified 90 days after certification.
      (2)   If the proposal receives an unfavorable recommendation or no
recommendation from the Plan Commission, the County Commissioners may, within
the 90-day period adopt or reject the proposal.
         (a)   If the County Commissioners adopt the proposal as certified, it
takes effect as other ordinances adopted by the Commissioners.
         (b)   If the County Commissioners reject the proposal, it is defeated.
         (c)   If the County Commissioners fail to act on the proposal within
90 days after certification, it is defeated.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.007 FEES.
   A fee will be charged according to attached fee schedule for each
application for a change in the zone district boundaries or classification of
property as shown on the zoning map, except those initiated by the Commission
or the County Commissioners, shall be accompanied by a check payable to the
Treasurer of the county or a cash payment sufficient in the amount to cover the
costs of publishing, posting and/or mailing notices of hearings, but in no
event shall it be less than $25.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.008 VALIDITY.
   If any section, clause, provision or portion of this chapter shall be held
to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect any other section, clause, provision or portion of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.009 ADOPTION.
   This chapter shall be in force and effect from and after its passage.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES
§ 156.020 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   The county is hereby divided into 17 categories of zoning districts as
follows:
Conservation District
GB-1   Conservation District
GB-2   Flood District
GB-3   Restricted District
Agricultural – Residence Districts
A-1    Agricultural District
A-1-CP Residential Unit Community Project
A-2    Agricultural Big-Lot
A-3    Limited Agricultural District
A-4    Agricultural Preservation District
R-S    One-Family Suburban Residence District
R-1    One-Family Residence District
R-2    Multi-Family Residence District
Non-Residence Districts
C-1    Neighborhood Business District
C-2    Community Business District
C-3    General Business District
M-1    Light Industrial District
M-2    General Industrial District
M-3    Rural Industrial District
 
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.021 ZONING MAPS.
   Said several districts and boundaries thereof are hereby adopted and
established as shown on the Township Zoning Maps of Wayne County, Indiana,
collectively known as the “Wayne County Zoning Map”, which maps, labeled
Exhibit A to the ordinance codified herein, adopted 3-10-1993, together with
all amendments, notation, references, data, district boundaries and other
information, shown thereon shall be and are hereby made a part of this chapter.
Said township zoning maps properly attested shall be and remain on file in the
office of the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. passed 1-21-2004)
§ 156.022 DISTRICT BOUNDARY INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Except where referenced on the zoning map to a street or alley lines
or other designated line by dimensions shown on said map, the district boundary
lines follow lot lines or the center lines of streets or alleys as they existed
at the time of the original adoption of the Zoning Ordinance; however, where a
district line obviously does not coincide with the lot lines or such
centerlines or where it is not designated by dimension, it shall be determined
by scaling.
   (B)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot which was in single
ownership at the time of enactment of this chapter, the use authorized thereon
and the other district requirements applying to the least restricted portion of
such lot under this chapter shall be considered as extending to the entire lot;
provided, the more restricted portion of such lot is entirely within 25 feet of
said dividing district boundary line. The use so extended shall be deemed to be
conforming.
   (C)   All questions concerning the exact location of district boundary lines
shall be determined by the Board according to rules and regulations which may
be adopted by it.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.023 PROCEDURES FOR ANNEXED OR VACATED AREAS.
   (A)   Territory detached from an incorporated city or town subsequent to the
effective date of this chapter shall, upon the effective date of such
disannexation, become a part of the A-1 District. Such districting shall be
continued until modified. The Commission shall recommend to the County
Commissioners, within a period of not to exceed six months from such date of
disannexation, a final zoning districting plan for such property, if any change
is desired.
   (B)   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated by official
action as provided by law, the zoning district adjoining the side of such
public way shall be extended automatically, depending on the side or sides to
which such lands revert, to include the right-of-way thus vacated, which shall
henceforth be subject to all regulations of the extended district or districts.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.024 UNIDENTIFIED PROPERTY.
   In every case where property has not been specifically included within a
district, the same is hereby declared to be in the A-1 District.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
EFFECTS OF DISTRICTING AND
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 156.035 DISTRICT; MORE RESTRICTED OR LESS RESTRICTED.
   Each of the districts in the following list shall be deemed to be more
restricted than any of the districts succeeding it, and each shall be deemed to
be less restricted than any of the districts preceding it: GB-1; GB-2; GB-3; A-
1; CP; A-2; R-S; R-1; R-2; C-1; C-2; C-3; M-1; and M-2.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.036 CONFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter specified, no land, buildings, structure or
premises shall hereafter be used, and no building, or part thereof, or other
structure shall be located, erected, moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged
or altered, except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the
district in which it is located.
   (B)   Regulations include:
      (1)   Structures or land, including performance standards for the control
of any dangerous and objectionable elements, as defined herein, in connection
with such use;
      (2)   The height, size or dimensions of buildings or structures, the size
or dimensions of lots, yards and other open spaces surrounding buildings; and
      (3)   The provision, location, size, improvement and operation of off-
street parking, loading and unloading spaces.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.037 ADDITIONAL USES; COMMISSION DETERMINATION.
   Uses other than those specifically mentioned in this chapter as permitted
uses in each of the districts may also be allowed therein, except for uses
prohibited therein or which are first permitted in a less restrictive district
and provided that, in the judgment of the Board as evidenced by decision of
record that such other uses are of similar character to those mentioned and
will have no adverse influence on adjacent properties or the neighborhood or
the community than the permitted uses specifically mentioned for the district.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.038 ADDITIONAL PROHIBITED USES; COMMISSION DETERMINATION.
   Uses other than those specifically prohibited in this chapter in any
district shall also be prohibited therefrom, provided that in the judgment of
the Board, as evidenced by decisions of record, such other uses are similar in
character to those specifically prohibited in that they would have similar or
more serious adverse influence on adjacent properties or the neighborhood or
the community than the uses specifically mentioned as prohibited in the
district.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.039 YARD REQUIREMENTS ALONG ZONING BOUNDARY LINE IN THE RESTRICTED
DISTRICT.
   Along any zoning boundary line on a lot in the less restricted district, a
front yard facing a lot in the more restricted district and any side yard, rear
yard or court abutting said zoning boundary line, unless subject to greater
restrictions or requirements stipulated by other provisions of this chapter,
shall have a minimum depth and width equal to the average of the required
minimum depth or width for such front yards, side yards, rear yards or courts
in the two districts on either side of such zoning boundary line. In cases
where the height of a proposed structure on such lot in the less restricted
district is greater than the maximum height permitted in the adjoining more
restricted district, the minimum depth or width of the side yard, rear yard or
court for such structure shall be determined by increasing the minimum depth or
width for the highest structure permitted in such more restricted district by
one foot for each two feet by which the proposed structure exceeds the maximum
height permitted in said more restricted district.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.040 STREET FRONTAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as permitted by other provisions of this chapter, no lot shall
contain any building used in whole or in part for residential purposes unless
such lot abuts for at least 40 feet on a street; and there shall be not more
than one, single-family dwelling for such frontage.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2003-002, passed 3-26-2003)
§ 156.041 REQUIRED AREA OR SPACE CANNOT BE REDUCED.
   No lot, yard, court, parking area or other space shall be reduced in area or
dimension so as to make said area or dimension less than the minimum required
by this chapter. No part of a yard, court, parking area, or other space
provided about, or for any building or structure for the purpose of complying
with the provisions of this chapter shall be included as part of a yard, court,
parking area or other space required under this chapter for another building or
structure.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.042 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   In every district spaces for off-street parking and for off-street loading
and unloading shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of §§
156.395 and
156.396 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.043 ENCROACHING DOORS.
   Every garage building or portion of a main building used for garage purposes
shall be so equipped that the doors when open or being opened will not project
beyond any lot line of the lot on which such building is located, and when said
doors open to an alley the wall or portion thereof containing said doors shall
be at least six feet from the line forming the common boundary between said lot
and the alley.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.044 ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   (A)   ESSENTIAL SERVICES are the erection, construction, alteration or
maintenance, by communication companies, public utilities or governmental
agencies, of underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water
transmission or distribution systems, collection, communication, supply or
disposal systems, including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes,
conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals,
hydrants and other similar equipment for the furnishing of adequate service by
such companies, public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies if
not occupied by personnel, and does not provide toilet facilities, shall be
permitted for the above in any zone district; provided that, the structure is
at least ten feet from side property lines, 20 feet from rear property line and
set back from the right-of-way the minimum distance as required in the zoning
district where the structure is to be located, and adequate off-street parking
is provided for service cars or trucks.
   (B)   Essential services shall be permitted as authorized and regulated by
law and other provisions of the county, it being the intention hereof to exempt
such essential services from the application of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.045 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the strengthening or restoring to a
safe condition of any part of any building or structure declared unsafe by
proper authority.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.046 PENDING APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the overall layout,
plans, construction, size or designated use of any development, building,
structure or part thereof for which official approvals and required building
permits have been granted before the enactment of this chapter, the
construction of which shall have been completed within 12 months after the
effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.047 EXTRACTION OF MINERALS AND OIL DRILLING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The extraction or mining of minerals or the extracting of oil or other
hydrocarbons are expressly prohibited within lands which are used for
residential purposes and where there are eight or more residences within a
quarter-mile square area.
   (B)   Such extraction or mining is also expressly prohibited within any R-
1 or R-2 Districts which are contiguous to any incorporated city or town since
these areas have been planned for residential development.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
CONSERVATION DISTRICTS
§ 156.060 GB-1 CONSERVATION DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this district to protect and preserve
areas of the county having recognized aesthetic or historical value or other
unique characteristics.
   (B)   Location. The Conservation District is intended to apply to land
having aesthetic or historic qualities or other natural or unique features
which are deserving of special protection.
   (C)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agricultural uses where the tract of land contains five or more
acres; and
      (2)   Public parks, playgrounds and recreational areas and private
recreational developments.
   (D)   Special exceptions. Those uses listed as special exceptions for the
GB-1 Conservation District in §
156.509 of this chapter may be permitted in accordance with the provisions of
§§
156.505 through
156.508 of this chapter.
   (E)   Subdivision. Subdivision is not permitted in this zone.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. passed 12-21-1994)
§ 156.061 GB-2 FLOOD DISTRICT.
   Those uses allowed in GB-1 as restricted by applicable flood control laws.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.062 GB-3 RESTRICTED DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this district to preserve areas of any
size in the county having special resources of a nature that are
environmentally sensitive, unique, aesthetic, significantly rare or of an
endangered biological productivity.
   (B)   Restrictions.
      (1)   Use restrictions. Except in extraordinary cases of an overriding
public need or interest, uses shall only be permitted that are consistent with
intent to protect conservation districts from any use that is inconsistent with
protecting the character of the environmentally sensitive, significantly rare
or endangered biological productivity or character or of other unique
qualities.
      (2)   Development restricted. There may be no activity, construction or
development, or use of the land in this zone that will endanger, destroy or
modify the current environmentally sensitive uses, or which would significantly
alter the ecological integrity, balance, character, except in the case of
overriding public need or interests. These areas might include marshes, bogs,
woodlands, wetlands, waterways and other areas of significant biological
productivity or uniqueness.
      (3)   Conservation easement. This zone may at the time of rezoning,
include an easement granting a right or interest in real property that is
appropriate to retaining land or water areas predominantly in their natural,
scenic, open or wooded condition; retaining such areas as suitable habitat for
fish, plants or wildlife; or maintaining existing land uses.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 156.075 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   When in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, a tract of
land will be permitted to have the following permitted uses; and buildings or
structures associated with an approved use may be erected, altered, and/or
enlarged.
      (1)   Agricultural and the usual agricultural buildings, structures, farm
office buildings, commercial and non-commercial nurseries and greenhouses;
      (2)   A single, one-family dwelling per minimum one and a half acre
parcel;
      (3)   Churches, schools and colleges for academic instruction, public
buildings, structures and properties of the recreational, cultural,
administrative or public service type;
      (4)   Non-commercial, recreation areas and centers, including country
clubs, swimming pools, golf courses and summer camps, public and private
forests and wild-life preserves, and similar conservation areas;
      (5)   Domestic pets, small kennel and large kennel;
      (6)   Cemetery, on a minimum of three acres;
      (7)   All signs in accordance with provisions of §§
156.430 through
156.434 of this chapter;
      (8)   Sawmill (cutting timber grown primarily on the premises);
      (9)   Essential services as permitted in §
156.044 of this chapter;
      (10)   Community development unit projects in accordance with the
provisions of §§
156.445 through
156.463, Unit Development Projects;
      (11)   None of the foregoing may be used in excess of any of the other
restrictions or prohibitions of this chapter;
      (12)   All non-conforming uses, pursuant to §
156.365 of this chapter;
      (13)   Wireless communications facilities, wireless communications
facility with wireless support structure and wireless support structure in
accordance with the provisions of §§
156.370 through
156.375 of this chapter; and
      (14)   Veterinary clinic, (common large, domesticated animals).
   (B)   (1)   Agricultural Animals and Poultry*: On tracts of three acres to
less than five acres, and a minimum of 275 feet of lot width, one of the
following three options is permitted. A maximum of:
         (a)   Two agricultural animals;
         (b)   Twenty poultry; or
         (c)   Ten poultry and one agricultural animal.
      (2)   *All agricultural animals and poultry shall be appropriately
contained within the boundaries of the property.
      (3)   Agricultural animals, including poultry, are not permitted on less
than three acres.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. passed 12-21-1994; Ord. 2015-002, passed 3-18-
2015; Ord. 2019-012, passed 8-21-2019; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.076 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Those uses listed as special exception for the A-1 Agricultural
District in §
156.509 of this chapter may be permitted in accordance with the provisions of
§§
156.505 through
156.508 of this chapter.
   (B)   On tracts of less than five acres animal husbandry is not permitted,
except as a special exception in accordance with the provisions of §§
156.505 through
156.509 of this chapter or as a principal permitted use in accordance with §
156.075(A)(2) of this chapter.
   (C)   Confined feeding operation, concentrated animal feeding operation and
a satellite manure storage structure are not permitted, except by special
exception in accordance with the provisions of §§
156.505 through
156.509 of this chapter.
   (D)   A small wind energy conversion system (WECS) is permitted by special
exceptions in accordance with the provisions of §§
156.505 through
156.509 of this chapter. A large wind energy conversion system (WECS) is not a
permitted use.
   (E)   Commercial dog breeder, unlimited kennel and domestic pet grooming
facility.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. passed 12-21-1994; Ord. 2015-002, passed 3-18-
2015; Ord. 2016-010, passed 12-7-2-16)
§ 156.077 ACCESSORY USES.
   Those uses, buildings or structures customarily incidental to any aforesaid
principal use or special exception shall be permitted in conjunction with such
use, including the following:
   (A)   Fall out shelter;
   (B)   Living quarters of persons employed on the premises;
   (C)   A private garage or parking area subject to provisions of §§
156.396 through
156.400 of this chapter;
   (D)   Home occupations, as regulated by §§
156.420 through
156.422;
   (E)   Rooming or boarding house (lodging house);
   (F)   Roadside stands, offering for sale only neighborhood agricultural
products and/or other agricultural related products that are produced on the
premises. See §
156.004, roadside stand;
   (G)   Advertising signs, exterior on-premises signs and real estate signs,
subject to the provisions of §§
156.430 through
156.434;
   (H)   Temporary buildings incidental to construction; and
   (I)   All accessory structures for other than farm use shall require a
building permit acquired pursuant to the County Building Code.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. passed 12-21-1994; Ord. passed 7-1-1997; Ord.
2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.078 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No principal structure shall exceed twp and one-half stories, or 30 feet and
no accessory structure shall exceed 30 feet in height except as provided in §
156.526.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2003-002, passed 3-26-2003; Ord. 2023-02, passed
4-12-2023)
§ 156.079 LOT AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The following minimum requirements shall apply, except as provided in
§§
156.525 through
156.527 and
156.540 through
156.542 of this chapter:
 Minimum Lot Area Minimum Lot Minimum Front Minimum Side Yard Minimum Rear Yard
                  Width       Yard Depth    Width - Each      Depth
 Acres            Feet        Feet          Feet              Feet
          Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Minimum Front  Minimum Side   Minimum Rear
          Area        Width       Yard Depth     Yard Width -   Yard Depth
                                                 Each
          Acres       Feet        Feet           Feet           Feet
Dwellings 1-1/2       250         100            50             50
Dwelling* 1           200         100            40             40
Small     5           275         100            50             50
Kennel**
Large     10          275         100            50             50
Kennel***
Other
Permitted 5****       275         100            50             50
Uses
WCFWWSS,                          Certified fall Certified fall Certified fall
WSS**     3           275         zone of WSS +  zone of WSS +  zone of WSS +
                                  50 feet        50 feet        50 feet
NOTES TO TABLE:
* Minimum requirements if located on public sewer and water systems.
** A 225-foot minimum setback is required from an existing off-premises
business, residence or accessory structures of the off-premises residence.
*** A 325-foot minimum setback is required from an existing off-premises
business, residence or accessory structures of the off-premises residence.
**** Unless note in §
156.075.
 
   (B)   Exception: the minimum setback distance may be reduced upon having a
written agreement with the owner(s) of the affected off-premises structures.
The written agreement shall be in a format approved by the Plan Administrator
and the agreement shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2015-002, passed 3-18-2015; Ord. 2019-012, passed
8-21-2019; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.080 MINIMUM SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum setback requirements for any permitted use on lots with a
width of less than 250 feet as shown in the records of the Wayne County,
Indiana Recorder's Office, on or before March 10, 1993 are as follows:
      (1)   Front yard depth: 65 feet.
      (2)   Rear yard depth: 40 feet.
      (3)   Side yard depth (each): 20 feet.
   (B)   Accessory structures may be located in the rear yard within three feet
of rear or side lot lines.
   (C)   Accessory structures may be located in the side yard provided they
meet the minimum setback requirements for a principal permitted use.
   (D)   Accessory structures may be located in the front yard provided they
meet the minimum setback requirements for a principal permitted use. Exception:
Front yard placement is not permitted in a platted and recorded subdivision,
with the exception of one-lot subdivisions.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2009-014, passed 11-18-2009; Ord. 2023-02, passed
4-12-2023)
§ 156.081 SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Subdivision of land for residential purposes is not permitted in this
zone.
   (B)   Subdivision of land for commercial or industrial purposes is not
permitted in this zone.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. passed 4-21-1999; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
A-1-CP RESIDENTIAL UNIT
COMMUNITY PROJECT
§ 156.095 ESTABLISHMENT OF A RESIDENTIAL UNIT COMMUNITY PROJECT.
   (A)   A residential unit community project is hereby established as an
“overlay district” on a 33- acre tract of land having a legal description as
being a part of the northwest quarter of Section 8, Township 14 North, Range 1
West, in Wayne Township, Wayne County, Indiana, and being more particularly
described as follows: beginning at the northeast corner of the northwest
quarter of said Section Number 8 and running thence south, along the east line
of said northwest quarter, 990.0 feet to a marked stone; thence west 1,212.09
feet, more or less, to the middle of the former Richmond and Newport Turnpike
Road; thence north 26 degrees and 15 minutes west, along the middle of said
turnpike road, 799.92 feet; thence north 24 degrees and 20 minutes west, along
the middle of said turnpike road, 295.75 feet; thence north 89 degrees 53
minutes 40 seconds east 1,687.85 feet, more or less, to the place of beginning,
containing an area of 33 acres. Subject to the right-of-way, United States
Highway Number 27, across the entire west side of the above described tract,
also subject to any easements of record.
   (B)   The underlying zoning classification is A-1 Agricultural District.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2007-004, passed 5-23-2007)
§ 156.096 EFFECT OF THE RESIDENTIAL UNIT COMMUNITY PROJECT.
   The imposition of the Residential Unit Community Project District upon the
tract of land described will be subject to all of the basic requirements of the
primary zoning in addition to any of the conditions that are imposed by reason
of the Development Plan. In the event there is a conflict between the primary
zoning and the conditions of the Development Plan, the conditions of the
Development Plan shall apply.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2007-004, passed 5-23-2007)
§ 156.097 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The general requirements of the Development Plan shall:
   (A)   Provide for a public water supply and public sanitary sewer
facilities;
   (B)   Abut and have access to a federal or state highway or principal
thoroughfare as designated on the State Major Highway Plan;
   (C)   Be consistent with the Comprehensive Master Plan;
   (D)   Not adversely affect neighboring property;
   (E)   Meet all the requirements of the zoning ordinance, unless specifically
varied or waived by conditions attached to the Development Plan;
   (F)   Be subject to all conditions on the Development Plan approval;
   (G)   Satisfy any requirement of written assurances or financial
responsibility to assure the completion of the proposed improvements; and
   (H)   The streets within the development unit project shall be paved
according to county specifications, maintained in good condition and lighted at
night. The County Engineer shall determine the minimum width.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2007-004, passed 5-23-2007)
§ 156.098 PROCEDURE FOR DEVELOPMENT.
   The procedure for review and approval of the Development Plan will be
identical to that procedure imposed for a subdivision and will be administered
by the Plan Commission.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2007-004, passed 5-23-2007)
§ 156.099 SUBMISSION OF PLANS.
   (A)   An application for a Development Plan for a residential unit community
project shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator and must be accompanied by
scale drawings certified by a registered engineer or surveyor.
   (B)   In additions to the requirements of Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances
and conditions of the Development Plan, such drawings shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   Accurate dimensions of the residential unit community project;
      (2)   Topographic data, including, but not limited to, watercourses,
marshes, wooded areas and other natural or human-made features which would
affect the project. U.S. Geological Survey topographic data may be used;
      (3)   Streets and rights-of-way on or adjoining the site, including, but
not limited to, dedicated right-of way widths, roadway widths, approximate
gradients, types and widths of pavements, curbs, sidewalks or other pertinent
data; and
      (4)   A general layout of the proposed structures and related facilities.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2007-004, passed 5-23-2007)
§ 156.100 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   No building, use, structure or land shall be erected, altered, enlarged or
permitted which is arranged or designed for other than one of the following
uses, except as provided herein and in §
156.365 of this chapter:
   (A)   Any uses permitted and as regulated in the A-1 and R-1 Districts,
except as modified herein;
   (B)   Multi-family dwellings, apartment hotels;
   (C)   Non-commercial clubs and lodges;
   (D)   Non-commercial recreation facilities;
   (E)   Town-house dwelling units; and
   (F)   Subdivision of land for residential purposes is permitted. No
subdivision of land for commercial or industrial is permitted.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2007-004, passed 5-23-2007)
§ 156.101 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   The special exceptions as found in the A-1 and R-2 Districts are not
permitted.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2007-004, passed 5-23-2007)
§ 156.102 ACCESSORY USES.
   The accessory uses as found in the A-1 and R-2 Districts are not permitted
unless otherwise approved by the Commission.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2007-004, passed 5-23-2007)
§ 156.103 RESIDENTIAL UNIT COMMUNITY PROJECT REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   The minimum site area of a residential community unit project shall be
33 acres. The site shall abut for a distance of not less than 1,000 feet on a
federal or state highway or a principal thoroughfare as designated on the State
Major Highway Plan.
   (B)   Any of the uses permitted as regulated in the R-2 District, except as
stipulated in this section; provided that, the number of dwelling units in such
multi-family buildings as are first permitted in the R-2 District may not
exceed 25% of the total number of dwelling units in the entire development
project.
   (C)   The overall residential density in any community unit project shall
not exceed ten dwelling units per gross acre, excluding rights-of-way of public
roads.
   (D)   The height of one-family homes, two-family, three-family and four-
family dwellings and town houses shall not exceed two and one-half stories or
35 feet and of any other residential buildings six stories or 60 feet.
   (E)   Yards and courts for one- and two- family dwellings and related uses
shall be the same as required in the R-2 District.
      (1)   All multi-family dwellings on a collector street shall have a front
yard not less than 35 feet in depth, and those fronting on a principal or
secondary thoroughfare, not less than 45 feet in depth.
      (2)   The distance between principal buildings, front to front, shall not
be less than the sum of the heights of the buildings, but in no case less than
80 feet, and the distance between such buildings, back to back, shall not be
less than 20 feet. The distance between buildings in any other relationship to
one another shall not be less than ten feet. The setback distance from the edge
of the street shall not be less than 20 feet.
   (F)   (1)   There shall be provided at least one and one-half off-street
parking spaces, in buildings or parking areas, for each dwelling and attached
garage unit in the development project; service drives and other facilities in
connection therewith shall be located entirely within the project area, and all
such parking areas and related facilities shall be maintained in good order by
the owner of the development or a properly constituted neighborhood
association.
      (2)   Off-street parking and service facilities for other than
residential uses shall meet the requirements in §§
156.395 and
156.396 of this chapter.
   (G)   At least 10% of the gross area of the project shall be developed and
property equipped as playgrounds, playfields, parks or other recreation areas.
Such area and facilities shall be maintained in good order by the owner of the
development or by a properly constituted neighborhood association, or, if
accepted by the Commission may be dedicated to the county.
   (H)   In case the site of the proposed residential unit community project
contains all or a part of a proposed school site, shown on the Master Plan or
when, in the judgment of the Commission, provisions for a school site within
the site of the development project is or will be needed to serve the
anticipated population, such school site or part thereof shall be conveyed to
the school corporation within whose jurisdiction the site is located.
   (I)   All infrastructure, including streets (not including the final asphalt
application and sidewalks), water, sewer, electric and street lights shall be
installed in each section prior to the issuance of a building permit for that
section.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2007-004, passed 5-23-2007)
§ 156.104 COURTS.
   (A)   Whenever any room in which persons live or sleep cannot be reasonably
and adequately lighted and ventilated from a front, side or rear yard, a court,
conforming with the provisions of this section, shall be provided on which such
rooms shall open. Such court need not extend below the lowest story it is
required to serve.
   (B)   An outer court which extends directly to and opens for its full width
on a front, side or rear yard, shall be not less than six inches wide for each
foot of height above the sill of the lowest window served by it nor, in any
case, less than six feet wide. The length of such court, measured perpendicular
to the width, shall not exceed twice such width unless such width conforms to
the requirements of division (C) below.
   (C)   An inner court which does not extend directly to nor open for its full
width on a front, side or rear yard shall be not less than nine inches wide for
each foot of height above the sill of the lowest window served by it nor, in
any case, less than ten feet.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2007-004, passed 5-23-2007)
A-2 AGRICULTURAL BIG-LOT DISTRICT
§ 156.115 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   No building, structure or land shall be erected, altered, enlarged or used
which is arranged or designed for other than one of the following uses, except
as provided herein and §
156.365 of this chapter:
   (A)   The agricultural uses permitted in A-1 and agricultural buildings and
structures including farm dwellings, farm office buildings, commercial and non-
commercial nurseries and greenhouses;
   (B)   Public and private grounds, golf courses, summer and winter resorts,
game preserves, and the like, for the purpose of preserving and enjoying the
natural resources of the property;
   (C)   Watershed protection works, hydroelectric plants;
   (D)   A single one-family dwelling per minimum three acre parcel;
   (E)   Essential services as defined in §
156.044 of this chapter; and
   (F)   Wireless communications facilities, wireless communications facility
with wireless support structure and wireless support structure in accordance
with the provisions of §§
156.370 through
156.375 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2009-013, passed 11-18-2009 3-18-2015; Ord. 2019-
012, passed 8-21-2019; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.116 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Those uses listed as special exceptions for the A-2 Big-Lot District
in §
156.509 of this chapter may be permitted in accordance with the provisions of
§§
156.505 through
156.508 of this chapter.
   (B)   A small wind energy conversion system (WECS) is permitted by special
exception in accordance with the provisions of §§
156.505 through
156.509 of this chapter. A large wind energy conversion system (WECS) is not a
permitted use.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2016-010, passed 12-7-2016)
§ 156.117 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses, buildings or structures customarily incidental to any
aforesaid principal use or special exception shall be permitted in conjunction
with such use, including the following: those uses permitted and as regulated
in the A-1 Agricultural District except as modified herein.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.118 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No principal structure shall exceed two and one-half stories, or 30 feet and
no accessory structure shall exceed 30 feet in height except as provided in §
156.526.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2003-002, passed 3-26-2003; Ord. 2023-02, passed
4-12-2023)
§ 156.119 LOT AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   The following minimum requirements shall apply, except as provided in §§
156.525 through
156.527 and
156.540 through
156.542 of this chapter:
 
 Minimum Lot Area Minimum Lot Minimum Front Minimum Side Yard Minimum Rear Yard
                  Width       Yard Depth    Width - Each      Depth
 Acres            Feet        Feet          Feet              Feet
          Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Minimum Front  Minimum Side   Minimum Rear
          Area        Width       Yard Depth     Yard Width -   Yard Depth
                                                 Each
          Acres       Feet        Feet           Feet           Feet
Dwellings 3           275         100*           50             50
          2***        275***      110**          50             50
Other                             100*
Permitted 5           300         110**          100            50
Uses
          Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Minimum Front  Minimum Side   Minimum Rear
          Area        Width       Yard Depth     Yard Width -   Yard Depth
                                                 Each
          Acres       Feet        Feet           Feet           Feet
WCFWWSS ,                         Certified fall Certified fall Certified fall
WSS****   5           300         zone of WSS +  zone of WSS +  zone of WSS +
                                  50 feet        50 feet        50 feet
NOTES TO TABLE:
*On roads with 50 feet established right-of-way.
**On roads with less than 50 feet established right-of-way.
***Minimum requirements if located on public sewer and water systems.
****A 225 foot minimum setback is required from an existing off premises
business, residence or accessory structures of the off premises residence.
 
   (B)   Exception: The minimum setback distance for WCFWWSS and WSS may be
reduced upon having a written agreement with the owner(s) of the affected off
premises structures. The written agreement shall be in a format approved by the
Plan Administrator, and the agreement shall be recorded in the office of the
Wayne County Recorder.
   (C)   Accessory structures may be located in the rear yard within three feet
of rear or side lot lines.
   (D)   Accessory structures may be located in the side yard; provided, they
meet the minimum setback requirements for a principal permitted use.
   (E)   Accessory structures may be located in the front yard provided they
meet the minimum setback requirements for a principal permitted use. Exception:
Front yard placement not permitted in a platted and recorded subdivision, with
the exception of one-lot subdivisions.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2009-014, passed 11-18-2009; Ord. 2019-012, passed
8-21-2019; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.120 SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Subdivision of land for residential purposes is not permitted.
   (B)   Subdivision of land for commercial or industrial purposes is not
permitted.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. passed 4-12-1999)
A-3 LIMITED AGRICULTURE DISTRICT
§ 156.135 PURPOSES.
   All of the uses and conditions applicable to A-2 District (§§
156.115 through
156.120 of this chapter) are applicable to this district, except for
subdivision of land.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.136 SUBDIVISION.
   Subdivision of land for residential, commercial or industrial property is
not permitted in this district.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
A-4 AGRICULTURE
PRESERVATION DISTRICT
§ 156.150 PURPOSES.
   It is the purpose of this district as established to permit intensive
agricultural and certain related activities as the principal use of the land.
Specifically, the interest is to facilitate the most efficient use of lands
best suited to agriculture by disallowing those uses which remove land from
production and/or contribute to the premature termination of agricultural
enterprises.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.151 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   All uses permitted in A-1, A-2 and A-3; except that, residential uses
are permitted only where the occupants are persons who are engaged in
agriculture on the premises;
   (B)   Accessory uses or structures:
      (1)   All accessory uses or structure permitted in A-1;
      (2)   Home occupation, as regulated by §§
156.420 through
156.422;
      (3)   Living quarters such as tenant house or rooms for persons employed
on the premises and not rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling; and
      (4)   Non-commercial garages and non-commercial greenhouses.
   (C)   Structural location specifications:
      (1)   Front yard.
         (a)   On four-lane federal and state highways: a distance of 120 feet
from the centerline of the right-of-way;
         (b)   On two-lane federal and state highways: a distance of 120 feet
from the centerline of the right-of-way;
         (c)   On all numbered county roads: as provided for in the separate
districts; and
         (d)   On all other roads and streets: a distance of 100 feet from the
centerline of the right-of-way.
      (2)   Side yard. The side yards shall have a minimum width of 25 feet on
each side.
      (3)   Rear yard. The rear yard shall have a minimum setback of 25 feet.
      (4)   Lot coverage. No greater than 1% of the land shall be covered by
the structures on the parcel.
      (5)   Lot frontage. Parcel frontage in the A-4 District shall be no less
than 660 feet.
      (6)   Lot area. Each lot in the A-4 Agricultural Preservation District
shall contain 20 acres or more in order to be permitted in this district.
Smaller parcels may be included in this district only when they are adjacent to
other “A3C” districts.
      (7)   Accessory structures. After a rezone to A-4, no rezoning is
permitted for ten years.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.152 SUBDIVISION.
   The subdivision of land in this district is not permitted.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
R-S ONE-FAMILY SUBURBAN
RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 156.165 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   No building, use, structure or improvements on land shall be erected,
altered, enlarged or permitted which is arranged or designed for other than one
of the following uses, except as provided herein and in §
156.395 of this chapter:
   (A)   Agricultural, but not including animal and poultry husbandry,
dairying, large and small kennels;
   (B)   A single one-family dwelling per parcel;
   (C)   Institutional as follows:
      (1)   Churches, rectories, parish house;
      (2)   Libraries, public;
      (3)   Parks, playgrounds, publicly owned;
      (4)   Schools; elementary and high, public, private and parochial;
      (5)   Museums;
      (6)   Public cultural recreation and exhibition; and
      (7)   Offices of professionals.
   (D)   Essential services as defined in §
156.044 of this chapter;
   (E)   Unit development projects in accordance with the provisions of §§
156.445 through
156.463; and
   (F)   Subdivision of land for residential purposes is permitted. Subdivision
for commercial or industrial purposes is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2015-002, passed 5-18-2015; Ord. 2023-02, passed
4-12-2023)
§ 156.166 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   Those uses listed as special exceptions for the R-S One-Family Residence
District in §
156.509 of this chapter may be permitted in accordance with the provisions of
§§
156.505 through
156.508 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.167 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses, buildings or structures customarily incidental to any
aforesaid principal use or special exception shall be permitted in conjunction
with such use, including the following:
   (A)   Fall-out shelter;
   (B)   The keeping of not more than two roomers or boarders by a resident
family;
   (C)   The keeping of domestic animals exclusively for the use and personal
enjoyment of the occupants of the principal building, but limited to cats, dogs
and smaller animals housed within the principal building but not including a
kennel;
   (D)   A private garage or parking area subject to the provisions of §§
156.396 through
156.400 of this chapter;
   (E)   Private swimming pools;
   (F)   Home occupations, as regulated by §§
156.420 through
156.422;
   (G)   Real estate signs, as regulated in §§
156.430 and
156.433 of this chapter; and
   (H)   Exterior on-premises signs as regulated in §§
156.430 and
156.432.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.168 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No principal structure shall exceed two and one-half stories or 30 feet and
no accessory structure shall exceed the height of the principal structure,
except as provided in §
156.526 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2003-002, passed 3-26-2003)
§ 156.169 LOT AREA, FRONTAGE AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   The following minimum requirements shall apply, except as provided in §§
156.525 through
156.527, 154.540 and 154.541 of this chapter:
 Minimum Lot Area Minimum Lot Minimum Front Minimum Side Yard Minimum Rear Yard
                  Width       Yard Depth    Width - Each      Depth
 Sq. Feet         Feet        Feet          Feet              Feet
               Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Minimum Front Minimum Side Minimum Rear
               Area        Width       Yard Depth    Yard Width - Yard Depth
                                                     Each
               Sq. Feet    Feet        Feet          Feet         Feet
Dwellings
1 and 1-1/
2 storie s (on 12,00 0     80          55            10           30
public sewer
and water )
(on septic )   1 acre      100         55            10           30
2 and 2-1/
2 storie s (on 14,00 0     80          55            14           35
public sewer
and water )
(on septic )   1 acre      100         55            14           35
Other Princi
pal Permi tted 20,00 0     100         55            20           40
Uses
 
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.170 COURTS.
   (A)   Whenever any room in which persons live or sleep cannot be reasonably
and adequately lighted and ventilated from a front, side or rear yard, a court,
conforming with the provisions of this section, shall be provided on which such
rooms shall open. Such court need not extend below the lowest story it is
required to serve.
   (B)   An outer court which extends directly to and opens for its full width
on a front, side or rear yard, shall be not less than six inches wide for each
foot of height above the sill of the lowest window served by it nor, in any
case, less than six feet wide. The length of such court, measured perpendicular
to the width, shall not exceed twice such width unless such width conforms to
the requirements of division (C) below.
   (C)   An inner court which does not extend directly to, nor open, for its
full width on a front, side or rear yard shall be not less than nine inches
wide for each foot of height above the sill of the lowest window served by it
nor, in any case, less than ten feet.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
R-1 ONE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 156.185 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   No building, use, structure or land shall be erected, altered, enlarged or
permitted which is arranged or designed for other than one of the following
uses, except as provided herein and in §
156.365 of this chapter:
   (A)   Any use permitted and as regulated in the R-S District; and
   (B)   Subdivision of land for residential purposes is permitted. No
subdivision for commercial or industrial is permitted.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.186 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   Those uses listed as special exceptions for the R-1 One-Family Residence
District in §
156.509 of this chapter may be permitted in accordance with the provisions of
§§
156.505 through
156.508 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.187 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses, buildings or structures customarily incidental to any
aforesaid principal use or special exception shall be permitted in conjunction
with such use, including the following:
   (A)   Fall-out shelter; and
   (B)   Any use permitted and as regulated in the R-S District, except as
modified herein.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.188 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No principal structure shall exceed two and one-half stories or 30 feet and
no accessory structure shall exceed the height of the principal structure,
except as provided in §
156.526 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2003-002, passed 3-26-2003)
§ 156.189 LOT AREA, FRONTAGE AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   The following minimum requirements shall apply, except as provided in §§
156.525 through
156.527,
156.540 and
156.451 of this chapter:
 Minimum Lot Area Minimum Lot Minimum Front Minimum Side Yard Minimum Rear Yard
                  Width       Yard Depth    Width - Each      Depth
 Sq. Feet         Feet        Feet          Feet              Feet
                Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Minimum Front Minimum Side Minimum Rear
                Area        Width       Yard Depth    Yard Width - Yard Depth
                                                      Each
                Sq. Feet    Feet        Feet          Feet         Feet
Dwellings
1 and 1-1/
2 stories (on   8,000       65          50            8            30
public sewer
and water )
(on septic )    1 acre      65          50            8            30
2 and 2-1/
2 stories (on   10,00 0     75          50            10           30
public sewer
and water )
(on septic )    1 acre      75          50            10           30
Other Principal 20,00 0     100         55            20           40
Permitted Uses
 
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.190 COURTS.
   (A)   Whenever any room in which persons live or sleep cannot be reasonably
and adequately lighted and ventilated from a front, side or rear yard; a court,
conforming with the provisions of this section, shall be provided on which such
rooms shall open. Such court need not extend below the lowest story it is
required to serve.
   (B)   An outer court which extends directly to and opens for its full width
on a front, side or rear yard, shall be not less than six inches wide for each
foot of height above the sill of the lowest window served by it nor, in any
case, less than six feet wide. The length of such court, measured perpendicular
to the width, shall not exceed twice such width unless such width conforms to
the requirements of division (C) below.
   (C)   An inner court which does nor extend directly to nor open for its full
width on a front, side or rear yard shall be not less than nine inches wide for
each foot of height above the sill of the lowest window served by it nor, in
any case, less than ten feet.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
R-2 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 156.205 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   No building, use, structure or land shall be erected, altered, enlarged or
permitted which is arranged or designed for other than one of the following
uses, except as provided herein and in §
156.365 of this chapter:
   (A)   Any use permitted and as regulated in the R-1 District, except as
modified herein;
   (B)   Multi-family dwellings, apartment hotels;
   (C)   Non-commercial clubs and lodges;
   (D)   Non-commercial recreation facilities;
   (E)   Town-house dwelling units; and
   (F)   Subdivision of land for residential purposes is permitted. No
subdivision of land for commercial or industrial is permitted.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.206 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   Those uses listed as special exceptions for the R-2 Multi-Family Residence
District in §
156.509 of this chapter may be permitted in accordance with the provisions of
§§
156.505 through
156.508 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.207 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses, buildings or structures customarily incidental to any
aforesaid principal use or special exception shall be permitted in conjunction
with such use, including the following:
   (A)   Fall-out shelter;
   (B)   The accessory uses permitted and as regulated in the R-1 District,
except as modified herein; and
   (C)   Home occupations, as regulated by §§
156.420 through
156.422.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.208 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   One-family or two-family dwellings shall not exceed two and one-half stories
or 30 feet in height; multi-family dwellings or other principal structures
shall not exceed a height of 60 feet; and accessory structures shall not exceed
two stories or 25 feet, except as provided in §
156.526 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.209 LOT AREA, FRONTAGE AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   The following minimum requirements shall apply, except as provided in §§
156.525 through 154.527,
156.540 and
156.541 of this chapter:
 Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Minimum Front Minimum Side Minimum Rear
 Area        Area per    Frontage    Yard Depth    Yard Width - Yard Depth
             Family                                Each
 Sq. Feet    Sq. Feet    Feet        Feet          Feet         Feet
                        Minimum Lot             Minimum    Minimum   Minimum
            Minimum Lot Area per    Minimum Lot Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard
            Area        Family      Frontage    Depth      Width -   Depth
                                                           Each
            Sq. Feet    Sq. Feet    Feet        Feet       Feet      Feet
One- and Two-Family Dwellings (with public sewer and water)
2-Family    10,000      5,000       80          50         10        30
One- and Two-Family Dwellings (with septic)
1-Family    1 acre      8,000       80          50         8         30
2-Family    1 acre      5,000       80          50         10        30
Multi-Family Dwelling (with public sewer and water)
1 and 1-1/  12,000      3,000       80          50         10        30
2 stories
   (with 1 acre      3,000       80          50         10        30
septic)
2 and 2-1/
2 stories
(with       12,000      3,000       100         50         12        30
public
sewer and
water)
   (on   1 acre      3,000       100         50         12        30
septic)
3 and 3-1/
2 stories
(with       12,000      3,000       120         50         14        35
public
sewer and
water)
   (on   1 acre      3,000       120         50         14        35
septic)
4 or more
stories
(with       14,000      3,000       140         50         20**      40
public
sewer and
water)
(with       1 acre      3,000       140         50         20        40
septic)
Other
Principal   20,000                  150         50         20**      40
Permitted
Uses
NOTES TO TABLE:
** 2 feet for each story in excess of 4 stories
 
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.201 COURTS.
   (A)   Whenever any room in which persons live or sleep cannot be reasonably
and adequately lighted and ventilated from a front, side or rear yard, a court,
conforming with the provisions of this section, shall be provided on which such
rooms shall open. Such court need not extend below the lowest story it is
required to serve.
   (B)   An outer court which extends directly to and opens for its full width
on a front, side or rear yard, shall be not less than six inches wide for each
foot of height above the sill of the lowest window served by it nor, in any
case, less than six feet wide. The length of such court, measured perpendicular
to the width, shall not exceed twice such width unless such width conforms to
the requirements of division (C) below.
   (C)   An inner court which does not extend directly to nor open for its full
width on a front, side or rear yard shall be not less than nine inches wide for
each foot of height above the sill of the lowest window served by it, nor, in
any case, less than ten feet.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS FOR
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
§ 156.225 REAR DWELLINGS IN R DISTRICT.
   In any R district, no building in the rear of a principal building on the
same lot shall be used for residential purposes.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.226 TRANSITIONAL USES IN R DISTRICT.
   In any R-S or R-1 District, a transitional use shall be permitted on a lot,
the side lot line of which adjoins either directly or across an alley any C or
M-District. The permitted transitional uses for any such lot in the R-
S District shall be any use permitted in the R-1 District, the permitted
transitional uses for any such lot in the R-1 District shall be any use
permitted in the R-2 District. The requirements governing lot area per dwelling
unit, off-street parking, yards and other open spaces shall be those of the R-
1 District for any such lot in the R-S District, those of the R-2 District for
any such lot in the R-1 District.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.227 ACCESSORY USES IN R DISTRICTS.
   (A)   An accessory building may be erected detached from the principal
building or may be erected as an integral part of the principal building, or it
may be connected therewith by a breezeway or similar structure. Except as
provided in §
156.231 of this chapter, no accessory building shall be erected in any required
yard or court, except a rear yard, and shall not occupy more than 35% of a
required rear yard. Accessory buildings shall be distant at least six feet from
any dwelling situated on the same lot, unless an integral part thereof, and at
least six feet from all lot lines of adjoining lots which are within any R
district unless located more than 50 feet from the front street line.
   (B)   In any R district, where a corner lot adjoins in the rear a lot
fronting on the side street and located in any R district, no part of an
accessory building on such corner lot within 25 feet of the common lot line
shall be nearer a side street lot line than the least depth of the front yard
required along such side street for a dwelling on such adjoining lot; and in no
case shall any part of such accessory building be nearer to the side street lot
line than the least width of the side yard required for the principal building
to which it is accessory.
   (C)   No necessary use or structure in any R-1 District, except an off-
street parking area subject to the provisions of §§
156.396 and
156.397 of this chapter, shall be permitted nearer to any front lot line than
50 feet, unless such use or structure is contained within, or connected to, the
principal building.
   (D)   Except as provided in §
156.527 of this chapter, an accessory building, if not located in the rear yard
shall be an integral part of, or connected with, the principal building to
which it is accessory, and shall be so placed as to meet all yard and court
requirements for a principal building of the same height and other dimensions
as said accessory building. Where an accessory building is located more than 50
feet from the front street line it may be located within three feet of the side
or rear lot lines.
   (E)   In any R district, no accessory building or structure shall be erected
or constructed prior to the erection or construction of the principal of main
building.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.228 SIDE YARDS.
   There shall be a side yard on each side of all buildings in the R district
as specified in each district. The side yard on the street side of corner lot
shall be six feet more than the side yard required in each district for an
interior lot.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.229 TRAFFIC VISIBILITY ACROSS CORNER LOTS.
   In any R district on any corner lot, no fence, structure or planting shall
be erected or maintained within 20 feet of the corner (the point of
intersection of the right-of-way lines) which interferes with traffic
visibility across the corner.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.230 PARKING OF TRUCKS IN R DISTRICTS.
   No moving van, tractor-trailer or similar vehicle of a rated weight of more
than one and one-half ton shall be parked on any street or on any residential
premises in any R district for any consecutive period of four hours or more,
unless loading and unloading; provided that, nothing herein shall prevent the
parking of such vehicle in a fully enclosed garage of similar permanent
structure.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.231 YARD SALES, PRIVATE OR RUMMAGE.
   No private or rummage yard sales shall be continued for longer than five
consecutive days, nor more than 15 days, of any calendar year by any of the
same persons or on the same property.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.232 MEASUREMENT OF BASEMENT AND CELLARS.
   A basement, when used as a dwelling, shall be counted as a story for
purposes of height measurement, and as a half-story for purposes of side yard
determination. A cellar shall not be considered in determining the height
measurements.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 156.245 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   No building, use, structure or land shall be erected, altered, enlarged or
permitted which is arranged or designed for other than one of the following
uses, except as provided herein and in §
156.365 of this chapter:
   (A)   Any use permitted and as regulated in the R districts, except as
modified herein;
   (B)   Retail and service uses as follows:
      (1)   Antique shops;
      (2)   Art galleries;
      (3)   Barber shops;
      (4)   Beauty shops;
      (5)   Book and stationery stores;
      (6)   Coin and philatelic stores;
      (7)   Camera and photographic supply stores;
      (8)   China and glassware stores;
      (9)   Clothes pressing establishments;
      (10)   Custom dressmaking and millinery shops;
      (11)   Domestic pet store;
      (12)   Drug stores;
      (13)   Dry cleaning and laundry receiving stations, processing to be done
elsewhere;
      (14)   Dry goods stores;
      (15)   Florist shops and conservatories;
      (16)   Food stores, including grocery stores, meat markets, bakeries,
candy and ice cream shops, delicatessens and frozen food stores including
locker rental in conjunction therewith;
      (17)   Garden supply and seed stores;
      (18)   Gift shops;
      (19)   Haberdasheries;
      (20)   Hardware stores;
      (21)   Hobby shops, for retail of items to be assembled or used away from
the premises;
      (22)   Jewelry stores, including watch repair;
      (23)   Kennel, small;
      (24)   Laundries and dry cleaners; automatic, self-service type or hand;
provided that, laundry machines and dry cleaning machines shall not exceed ten
pounds capacity each;
      (25)   Leather goods and luggage stores;
      (26)   Locksmith shops;
      (27)   Medical and dental clinics;
      (28)   Medical and dental offices;
      (29)   Optician shops;
      (30)   Paint and wallpaper stores;
      (31)   Schools; including music, dance or business;
      (32)   Shoe and hat repair stores;
      (33)   Tailor shops;
      (34)   Tobacco shops; and
      (35)   Trophy shops.
   (C)   Public parking areas subject to the provisions of §§
156.271 and
156.395 through
156.400 of this chapter;
   (D)   Commercial development unit projects in accordance with the provisions
of §§
156.445 through
156.451 of this chapter;
   (E)   Subdivision of land for non-residential and commercial purposes is
permitted, but the subdivision of land for residential purposes or for
industrial purposes is not permitted; and
   (F)   Wireless communications facilities, wireless communications facility
with wireless support structure and wireless support structure in accordance
with the provisions of §§
156.370 through
156.375 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2015-002, passed 3-18-2015; Ord. 2019-012, passed
8-21-2019)
§ 156.246 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   Those uses listed as special exceptions for the C-1 Neighborhood Business
District in §
156.509 of this chapter may be permitted in accordance with the provisions of
§§
156.505 through
156.508 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.247 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses, buildings or structures customarily incidental to any
aforesaid principal use or special exception shall be permitted in accordance
with the provisions of §§
156.505 through
156.508 of this chapter and as follows:
   (A)   Accessory uses permitted and as regulated in the R districts. See §
156.187 of this chapter; and
   (B)   Accessory uses and structures customarily accessory and incidental to
any of the foregoing permitted C-1 non-residential uses and including off-
street parking facilities subject to the provisions of §§
156.395 through
156.400 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.248 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   All businesses, services or processing shall be conducted wholly
within a completely enclosed building except for off-street parking; and such
outdoor display or storage of vehicles, materials and equipment as may be
authorized by the Commission.
   (B)   Processes and equipment employed and goods processed or sold shall be
limited to those which are not objectionable by any reason of odor, dust,
smoke, cinders, gas, fumes, noise, vibration, refuse matter or water-carried
waste.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.249 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No principal structure shall exceed two and one-half stories or 30 feet and
no accessory structure shall exceed the height of the principal structure
except as provided in §
156.526 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2003-002, passed 3-26-2003)
§ 156.250 LOT AREA, FRONTAGE AND YARD REGULATIONS.
   The following minimum requirements shall apply, except as provided in §
156.527 of this chapter:
 
             Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Minimum Front Minimum Side  Minimum Rear
             Area        Frontage    Yard Depth    Yard Width    Yard Depth
             Sq. Feet    Feet        Feet          Feet          Feet
                                                   None; except  None; except
                                                   when          when adjoining
Non-Resident None        None        45            adjoining an  an R district,
ial Uses                                           R district,   then not less
                                                   then not less than 20 feet
                                                   than 20 feet
Residential  Same as required in the R-1 District
                                     Certified     Certified     Certified fall
WCFWWSS, WSS 1           None        fall zone of  fall zone of  zone of WSS +
                                     WSS + 50 feet WSS + 50 feet 50 feet
 
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2019-012, passed 8-21-2019)
§ 156.251 COURTS.
   (A)   Whenever any room in which persons live or sleep cannot be reasonably
and adequately lighted and ventilated from a front, side or rear yard, a court
conforming with the provisions of this section, shall be provided on which such
rooms shall open. Such court need not extend below the lowest story it is
required to serve.
   (B)   An outer court which extends directly to and opens for its full width
on a front, side or rear yard, shall be not less than six inches wide for each
foot of height above the sill of the lowest window served by it nor, in any
case, less than six feet wide. The length of such court, measured perpendicular
to the width, shall not exceed twice such width unless such width conforms to
the requirements of division (C) below.
   (C)   An inner court which does not extend directly to nor open for its full
width on a front, side or rear yard shall be not less than nine inches wide for
each foot of height above the sill of the lowest window served by it nor, in
any case, less than ten feet.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
C-2 COMMUNITY BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 156.265 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   No building, use, structure or land shall be erected, altered, enlarged or
permitted which is arranged or designed for other than one of the following
uses, except as provided herein and in §
156.365 of this chapter:
   (A)   Any use permitted and as regulated in the C-1 Districts, except as
modified herein;
   (B)   Retail and service uses as follows:
      (1)   Ambulance service;
      (2)   Amusement establishments, including bowling alleys, pool halls,
dance halls, skating rinks and other similar places of recreation;
      (3)   Art and school supply stores;
      (4)   Auction rooms;
      (5)   Auto accessory stores;
      (6)   Automobile wash;
      (7)   Automotive service station;
      (8)   Bicycle stores, including rental and repair;
      (9)   Blueprinting and photostatting;
      (10)   Catering establishments;
      (11)   Carpet, rug, and linoleum stores;
      (12)   Clothing and costume rental shops;
      (13)   Currency exchanges;
      (14)   Department stores;
      (15)   Drive-in establishment;
      (16)   Drive-in movie;
      (17)   Electrical and household appliance stores, including radio and
television sales;
      (18)   Employment agencies;
      (19)   Exterminating shops;
      (20)   Flea market;
      (21)   Funeral home;
      (22)   Furniture stores, including upholstering when conducted as part of
the retail operations and secondary to the principal use;
      (23)   Furrier shops, including the incidental storage and conditioning
of furs;
      (24)   Hotel;
      (25)   Interior decorating shops, including upholstering and making of
draperies, slip covers and other similar articles, when conducted as part of
the retail operations and secondary to the principal use;
      (26)   Laundries, employing not more than four persons in addition to one
owner or manager;
      (27)   Liquor stores, package goods only;
      (28)   Loan offices;
      (29)   Machinery sales rooms, with no repair or servicing, provided that
storage and display of machinery, except of household appliances and office
machines such as typewriters, shall be restricted to new floor samples;
      (30)   Motel;
      (31)   Musical instrument stores, including minor repairs;
      (32)   Office supply stores, including minor repairs;
      (33)   Orthopedic, medical and surgical appliance stores, not including
the assembly or manufacture of such articles;
      (34)   Park, playground, game court;
      (35)   Pawn shops;
      (36)   Pet shops;
      (37)   Photograph developing and processing shops;
      (38)   Physical culture and health services, including gymnasiums,
swimming pools, reducing salons, masseurs, public baths;
      (39)   Picture framing establishments, when conducted for retail trade on
the premises only;
      (40)   Plumbing showrooms;
      (41)   Pool, swimming, public;
      (42)   Printing establishments for letter press, business cards,
mimeographing, and other similar custom services;
      (43)   Professional activities;
      (44)   Radio and television service and repair shops;
      (45)   Restaurant, hotel and bar fixture stores;
      (46)   Restaurants, including live entertain-ment and dancing and the
serving of liquor in conjunction therewith;
      (47)   Second-hand stores and rummage shops;
      (48)   Shoe stores;
      (49)   Sporting goods stores;
      (50)   Taxidermists shops;
      (51)   Telegraph offices;
      (52)   Ticket agencies, amusement;
      (53)   Toy shop;
      (54)   Travel bureaus and transportation ticket offices;
      (55)   Variety stores;
      (56)   Wearing apparel shops; and
      (57)   Environmental collection centers.
   (C)   Business and/or professional office; office buildings;
   (D)   Banks, including drive-in banks, savings and loan associations;
   (E)   Motor vehicle service station and garage, display, tire, sales and
general automobile repair not including major body or fender repairs, subject
to the provisions of §§
156.395 through
156.400;
   (F)   Drive-in eating and drinking places; provided, the principal building
is distant not less than 100 feet from any R district;
   (G)   Night clubs and theaters, but not within 100 feet of any R district
and subject to all applicable regulations and such permits as may be required
by law;
   (H)   Trade or business schools; provided, machinery which is used for
instruction purposes is not objectionable due to noise, fumes, smoke, odor or
vibration; photographic studios, dancing studios, radio and telecasting
studios;
   (I)   Commercial recreational facility, commercial entertainment facility;
   (J)   Shopping center; and
   (K)   Wireless communications facilities, wireless communications facility
with wireless support structure and wireless support structure in accordance
with the provisions of §§
156.370 through
156.375 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2019-012, passed 8-21-2019; Ord. 2023-02, passed
4-12-2023)
§ 156.266 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   Those uses listed as special exceptions for the C-2 Community Business
District in §
156.509 of this chapter may be permitted in accordance with the provisions of
§§
156.505 through
156.508 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.267 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses, buildings or structure customarily incidental to any
aforesaid principal use or special exception shall be permitted in conjunction
with such use:
   (A)   Fall-out shelter; and
   (B)   Accessory uses and structures as permitted and as regulated in the R-
2 and C-1 Districts, as well as accessory uses and structures not otherwise
prohibited customarily accessory and incidental to any of the foregoing
permitted C-2 uses.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.268 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   All conditions as specified for the C-1 District, except for new merchandise
in the case of art and antique shops.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.269 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No principal structure shall exceed three stories or 45 feet and no
accessory structure shall exceed the height of the principal structure, except
as provided in §
156.526 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2003-002, passed 3-26-2003)
§ 156.270 LOT AREA, FRONTAGE AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   The following minimum requirements shall apply except as provided in §§
156.525 through
156.527,
156.540 and
156.541 of this chapter:
 
              Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Minimum Front Minimum Side  Minimum Rear
              Area        Frontage    Yard Depth    Yard Width    Yard Depth
              Sq. Feet    Feet        Feet          Feet          Feet
                                      None; except  None; except  None; except
Non-                                  when          when          when
Residential   None        None        adjoining an  adjoining an  adjoining an
Uses                                  R district,   R district,   R district,
                                      then not less then not less then not less
                                      than 45 feet  than 30 feet  than 30 feet
Residential   Same as required in the R-2 District
Uses
                                      Certified     Certified     Certified
WCFWWSS , WSS 1           None        fall zone of  fall zone of  fall zone of
                                      WSS + 50 feet WSS + 50 feet WSS + 50 feet
 
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2019-012, passed 8-21-2019)
§ 156.271 GARAGES AND PARKING AREAS DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No motor vehicles service station, parking lot for 25 or more motor
vehicles, or parking garage or motor vehicle repair shop, shall have an
entrance or exit for vehicles within 200 feet along the same side of a street
of any school, public playground, church, hospital, public library or
institution for dependents or for children, except where such property is in
another block or on another street which the lot in question does not abut.
   (B)   No motor vehicles filling station or public garage shall be permitted
where any oil draining pit or visible appliance for any such purpose other than
filling caps, is located within ten feet of any street lot line or within 25
feet of any R district, except where such appliance or pit is within an
enclosed building.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.272 COURTS.
   (A)   Whenever any room in which persons live or sleep cannot be reasonably
and adequately lighted and ventilated from a front, side or rear yard, a court,
conforming with the provisions of this section, shall be provided on which such
rooms shall open. Such court need not extend below the lowest story it is
required to serve.
   (B)   An outer court which extends directly to and opens for its full width
on a front, side or rear yard, shall be not less than six inches wide for each
foot of height above the sill of the lowest window served by it nor, in any
case, less than six feet wide. The length of such court, measured perpendicular
to the width, shall not exceed twice such width unless such width conforms to
the requirements of §
156.271 of this chapter.
   (C)   An inner court which does nor extend directly to, nor open, for its
full width on a front, side or rear yard shall be not less than nine inches
wide for each foot of height above the sill of the lowest window served by it
nor, in any case, less than ten feet.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
C-3 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 156.285 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   No building, use, structure or land shall be erected, altered, enlarged or
used which is arranged or designed for other than one of the following uses,
except as provided herein and in §
156.365 of this chapter:
   (A)   Any use permitted and as regulated in the C-2 District, except as
modified herein and except that no dwellings are permitted;
   (B)   The following uses provided that buildings and outside storage or
display shall be at least 100 feet from any R-District and buildings shall have
no openings adjoining any R-District other than stationary windows and fire
escapes:
      (1)   Automobiles, trucks, trailers, farm implements, for sale, display,
hire, major or minor repair including sales, lots, used car lots, trailer lots,
body and fender shops, paint shops and bus storage;
      (2)   Battery and tire service stations;
      (3)   Building materials, sales;
      (4)   Commercial greenhouses;
      (5)   Contractor or construction shops, such as: building, cement,
electrical, roofing, refrigeration, heating and ventilating, masonry, painting,
plumbing, air-conditioning;
      (6)   Dry-cleaning establishments;
      (7)   Frozen food lockers;
      (8)   Garages, model display and sales;
      (9)   House trailer sales;
      (10)   Laundries;
      (11)   Linen, towel, diaper and other similar supply service;
      (12)   Machinery sales;
      (13)   Mail order house;
      (14)   Monument sales;
      (15)   Motorcycle sales, including servicing and repair;
      (16)   Repair of household or office machinery or equipment; and
      (17)   Trailers for motor vehicles, sales and rentals, not including
house trailers or mobile homes.
   (C)   Production and processing, limited to the following uses or products:
      (1)   Advertising displays;
      (2)   Art needle work and hand weaving;
      (3)   Awning, Venetian blinds, window shades;
      (4)   Bakeries, wholesale;
      (5)   Books, hand binding and tooling;
      (6)   Brushes and brooms;
      (7)   Carpenter shops for custom woodworking and custom furniture making;
      (8)   Clothing, custom manufacturing and alterations, for retail only;
      (9)   Cosmetics, drugs, and perfumes;
      (10)   Dentures;
      (11)   Food processing, packaging and distributing (except meat and fish,
sauerkraut, vinegar, yeast and the rendering or refinishing of fats or oils);
      (12)   Garages and parking lots, other than accessory, for the storage of
motor vehicles (but not including truck trailers) and subject to the provisions
of §§
156.395 through
156.400 of this chapter;
      (13)   Glass cutting and glazing;
      (14)   Jewelry (from precious metals);
      (15)   Laboratories, medical, dental, research, experimental and testing;
provided, there is no danger from fire or explosion nor of offensive noise,
vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat, glare or other objectionable influences;
      (16)   Light sheet metal products;
      (17)   Optical lenses;
      (18)   Packing and crating;
      (19)   Printing, commercial, including engraving and photo engraving;
      (20)   Soldering and welding;
      (21)   Tool, die and pattern making;
      (22)   Watches; and
      (23)   Wholesale offices and storerooms with storage.
   (D)   Animal hospitals, kennels, display and housing of boarding of pets and
other domestic animals, provided that any enclosure or building in which
animals are kept shall be at least 100 feet from any R district and at least 50
feet from any other C district. Exercise runs shall be enclosed on four sides
by pierced well-maintained fence or wall at least six feet in height;
   (E)   Bottling of soft drinks or milk and distribution stations therefor,
providing a building uses for such processing and/or distribution shall be at
least 100 feet from any R district;
   (F)   Advertising signs subject to the provisions of §§
156.430 and
156.431 of this chapter;
   (G)   Warehouses for the storage of merchandise and materials, trucking or
motor freight stations or terminals, carting, expressing or hauling
establishments, contractor and building material yards; providing, no such uses
are conducted within 200 feet of any R district;
   (H)   Public utility and communications buildings and structures, including
storage yards; and
   (I)   Wireless communications facilities, wireless communications facility
with wireless support structure and wireless support structure in accordance
with the provisions of §§
156.370 through
156.375 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2019-012, passed 8-21-2019; Ord. 2023-02, passed
4-12-2023)
§ 156.286 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   Those uses listed as special exceptions for the C-3 General Business
District in §
156.509 of this chapter may be permitted in accordance with the provisions of
§§
156.505 through
156.508 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.287 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses, buildings or structures customarily incidental to any
aforesaid principal use or special exception shall be permitted in conjunction
with such use, including the following:
   (A)   Fall-out shelter; and
   (B)   Accessory uses and structures as permitted and as regulated in the C-
2 District and such other accessory uses and structures not otherwise
prohibited which are customarily accessory and incidental to any of the
foregoing permitted C-3 uses.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.288 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   Processes and equipment employed and goods processed or sold shall be
limited to those which are not objectionable by reason of odor, dust, smoke,
cinders, gas, fumes, noise, vibration, refuse, matter or water-carried waste.
   (A)   All businesses, services or processing shall be conducted wholly
within a completely enclosed building, except for incidental display of
merchandise, sale of motor vehicles, fuel, lubricants and other fluids at
service stations, loading and unloading operations, parking and the outdoor
display or storage of vehicles, materials and equipment.
   (B)   No building customarily used for night operation, such as a bakery or
milk bottling and distribution station, shall have any opening, other than
stationary windows or required fire exits, within 100 feet of any A or R
district, and any space used for loading or unloading commercial vehicles in
connection with such an operation shall not be within 100 feet of any A or R
district.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.289 PROHIBITED USES.
   (A)   Schools, hospitals, clinics and other institutions for human care;
provided, however, that, any of the aforesaid uses legally existing in the C-
3 District at the time of the adoption of this chapter or any amendment
thereof, shall not be classified as a non-conforming use.
   (B)   No use shall be permitted or authorized to be established or
maintained which, when conducted under adequate conditions and safeguards, in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and any additional conditions or
requirements prescribed by the Board of Zoning Appeals is, or may become,
hazardous, noxious, or offensive due to the emission of odor, dust, smoke,
cinders, gas, fumes, noise, vibration, heat frequency, refuse matter or water-
carried waste.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.290 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No principal structure shall exceed three stories or 45 feet and no
accessory structure shall exceed the height of the principal structure, except
as provided in §
156.509 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2003-002, passed 3-26-2003)
§ 156.291 LOT AREA, FRONTAGE AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   The following minimum requirements shall apply as provided in §§
156.525 through
156.527,
156.450 and
156.541 of this chapter:
 
             Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Minimum Front Minimum Side  Minimum Rear
             Area        Frontage    Yard Depth    Yard Width    Yard Depth
             Sq. Feet    Feet        Feet          Feet          Feet
                                                   None; except
                                                   when
Non-                                               adjoining an
Residential  None        None        45            A or R        35
Uses                                               district,
                                                   then not less
                                                   than 30 feet
Residential  Not permitted
Uses
                                     Certified     Certified     Certified fall
WCFWWSS, WSS 1           None        fall zone of  fall zone of  zone of WSS +
                                     WSS + 50 feet WSS + 50 feet 50 feet
 
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2019-012, passed 8-21-2019)
M-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.305 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   No buildings, use, structure or land shall be erected, altered, enlarged, or
permitted which is arranged or designed for other than one of the following
uses, except as provided herein and in §
156.395 of this chapter:
   (A)   Any use permitted and as regulated in the C-3 District, except as
herein modified, except all residential uses are prohibited;
   (B)   The rendering of service or the manufacturing, compounding,
processing, packaging and assembling of products such as:
      (1)   Beverages, non-alcoholic;
      (2)   Blacksmith shop;
      (3)   Boat-building and repair of pleasure craft and other small craft,
but not including shipbuilding or ship repair;
      (4)   Bottling works, beverage;
      (5)   Buses, bus bodies;
      (6)   Cameras and other photographic equipment and supplies;
      (7)   Canvas and canvas products;
      (8)   Ceramic products such as pottery and small glazed tile;
      (9)   Electric appliances such as lighting fixtures, items, fans,
toasters and electric toys;
      (10)   Electrical equipment assembly such as home radio and television
receivers and home movie equipment, but not including electrical machinery;
      (11)   Electrical supplies, manufacturing and assembly of, such as wire
and cable assembly, switches, lamps, insulation and dry cell batteries;
      (12)   Fur goods, not including tanning or dyeing;
      (13)   Glass products from previously manufactured glass;
      (14)   Hair, felt and feather products (except washing, curing and
dyeing);
      (15)   Hat bodies of fur and wool felt;
      (16)   Hosiery;
      (17)   House trailers;
      (18)   Ice, dry and natural;
      (19)   Ink mixing and packaging and inked ribbons;
      (20)   Insecticides;
      (21)   Leather products, including shoes and machine belting;
      (22)   Luggage;
      (23)   Meat products;
      (24)   Metal finishing, plating, grinding, sharpening, polishing,
cleaning, rust-proofing and heat treatment;
      (25)   Metal stamping and extrusion of small products such as costume
jewelry, pins and needles, razor blades, bottle caps, buttons and kitchen
utensils;
      (26)   Musical instruments;
      (27)   Orthopedic and medical appliances such as artificial limbs,
braces, supporters and stretchers;
      (28)   Paper products, small, such as envelopes and stationery, bags,
boxes, tubes and wallpaper printing;
      (29)   Perfumes and perfumed soaps, compounding only;
      (30)   Pharmaceutical products, compounding only;
      (31)   Poultry and rabbits, slaughtering and retail sale for domestic and
family use but not for hotel, restaurant or other commercial use;
      (32)   Precision instruments such as optical, medical and drafting;
      (33)   Products from finished materials, including plastic, bone, cork,
feathers, felt, fiber, paper, fur, glass, hair, horn, leather, precious and
semiprecious stones, rubber, shell or yarn;
      (34)   Rubber products, small and synthetic treated fabrics, (excluding
all rubber and synthetic processing) such as washers, gloves, footwear, bathing
caps and atomizers;
      (35)   Silverware, plate and sterling;
      (36)   Soap, and detergents, packaging only;
      (37)   Sporting and athletic equipment such as balls, baskets, cues,
gloves, bats, racquets and rods;
      (38)   Statuary, mannequin, figurines and religious and church art goods,
excluding foundry operations;
      (39)   Textiles, including spinning, weaving, manufacturing, dyeing,
printing, knit goods, yarn, thread and cordage, but not including textile
bleaching;
      (40)   Tobacco curing and manufacturing and tobacco products;
      (41)   Tools and hardware such as bolts, nuts and screws, doorknobs,
drills, hand tools and cutlery, hinges and house hardware, locks, non-ferrous
metal castings and plumbing appliances;
      (42)   Toys;
      (43)   Umbrellas;
      (44)   Upholstering (bulk), including mattress manufacturing, rebuilding
and renovating;
      (45)   Vehicles, children’s such as bicycles, scooters, wagons and baby
carriages; and
      (46)   Wood products, such as furniture boxes, crates, baskets and
pencils and cooperage works.
   (C)   Any other business or industry which is determined by the Commission
to be of the same general character as the above principal permitted uses, but
not including any use which is first permitted or which is not permitted in the
M-2 District, except as modified herein;
   (D)   Any retail business or service establishment determined by the
Commission to have been clearly demonstrated as necessary to serve the needs of
the industrial area, including restaurants, cocktail lounges, motels, banks and
business or professional offices;
   (E)   Industrial park; and
   (F)   Wireless communications facilities, wireless communications facility
with wireless support structure and wireless support structure in accordance
with the provisions of §§
156.370 through
156.375 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2019-012, passed 8-21-2019)
§ 156.306 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   Those uses listed as special exceptions for the M-1 Light Industrial
District in §
156.509 of this chapter may be permitted in accordance with the provisions of
§§
156.505 through
156.508 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.307 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses, buildings, or structures customarily incidental to any
aforesaid principal use or special exception shall be permitted in conjunction
with such use, and home occupations as regulated by §§
156.420 through
156.422.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.308 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   Processes and equipment employed in goods processed or sold shall be limited
to those which are not objectionable by reason of odor, dust, smoke, cinders,
gas, fumes, noise, vibration, refuse matter or water-carried waste.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.309 PROHIBITED USES.
   (A)   Hotels, motels, residential uses or dwellings, mobile home parks,
schools, hospital, clinics and other institutions for human care; provided,
however, that, any of the aforesaid uses legally existing in this M-1 District
at the time of the adoption of this chapter or any amendment thereto, shall not
be classed as a non-conforming use.
   (B)   No use shall be permitted or authorized to be established or
maintained which, when conducted under adequate conditions and safeguards, in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and any additional conditions or
requirements prescribed by the Board of Zoning Appeals is, or may become
hazardous, noxious, or offensive due to the emission of odor, dust, smoke,
cinders, gas, fumes, noise, vibration, heat frequency, refuse matter or water-
carried waste.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.310 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No structure shall exceed three stories or 50 feet, except as provided in §
156.526 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.311 LOT AREA, FRONTAGE AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   The following minimum requirements shall apply except as provided in §§
156.525 through
156.527,
156.540 and
156.541 of this chapter:
 
             Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Minimum Front Minimum Side  Minimum Rear
             Area        Frontage    Yard Depth    Yard Width    Yard Depth
             Sq. Feet    Feet        Feet          Feet          Feet
                                                   None; except
                                                   when
Non-                                               adjoining an
Residential  None        None        55            A or R        40
Uses                                               district,
                                                   then not less
                                                   than 50 feet
Residential  Prohibited
Uses
                                     Certified     Certified     Certified fall
WCFWWSS, WSS 1           None        fall zone of  fall zone of  zone of WSS +
                                     WSS + 50 feet WSS + 50 feet 50 feet
 
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2019-012, passed 8-21-2019)
M-2 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.325 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   No building, structure or land shall be erected, altered, enlarged or used
which is arranged or designed for other than one of the following uses, except
as provided herein and in §
156.365 of this chapter:
   (A)   Any use permitted and as regulated in the M-1 District, except as
modified herein;
   (B)   Provide no part of a building occupied by such uses shall have any
opening other than stationary windows or required fire exits within 100 feet of
any A or R districts:
      (1)   Blacksmith, welding or other metal working shop, excluding punch
presses over 20 tons rated capacity, drop hammers and other noise- producing
machine-operated tools; machine shops;
      (2)   Foundry, casting lightweight non-ferrous metals or electric foundry
not causing noxious fumes or odor;
      (3)   Bag, carpet, rag cleaning; provided, necessary equipment is
installed and operated for the effective precipitation or recovery of dust; and
      (4)   Ice manufacturing and cold storage plant; creamery and bottling
plant.
   (C)   The following uses when located not less than 200 feet from any A or R
district:
      (1)   Inflammable liquids, underground storage only, not to exceed 25,000
gallons; and
      (2)   Building material sales yards including concrete mixing; lumber
yards including millwork, open yards for storage, sale of feed and/or fuel and
contractor’s equipment storage.
   (D)   The following uses are permitted when located not less than 300 feet
from any A or R district, and not less than 100 feet from any other district:
      (1)   Acetylene manufacturing in excess of 15 pounds pressure per square
inch;
      (2)   Acid manufacture;
      (3)   Asbestos manufacturing;
      (4)   Automobile assembly;
      (5)   Automobile wrecking;
      (6)   Bleaching, cleaning and dyeing plant of large scale production;
      (7)   Boiler shops, machine shops, structural steel fabricating shops,
railway car or locomotive shops, including repair, metal working shops
employing reciprocating hammers or presser over 20 tons’ rated capacity;
      (8)   Candle manufacturing;
      (9)   Charcoal and fuel briquettes;
      (10)   Chemicals, including carbide, caustic soda, cleaning and polishing
preparations, exterminating agents, hydrogen and oxygen, industrial alcohol,
nitrating of cotton or other materials, nitrates (manufactured and natural) of
an explosive nature, potash, plastic materials and synthetic resins;
      (11)   Coal, coke and tar products, including gas manufacturing;
      (12)   Coal yards;
      (13)   Cooperage works;
      (14)   Dextrin, starch or glucose manufacturing;
      (15)   Disinfectant, insecticide or poison manufacturing;
      (16)   Dye and dyestuffs manufacture;
      (17)   Electric central station power and steam generating plants;
      (18)   Emery cloth or sandpaper manufacturing;
      (19)   Enameling, lacquering or japanning;
      (20)   Environmental manufacturing or processing centers;
      (21)   Felt manufacturing;
      (22)   Film, photographic;
      (23)   Flour, feed and grain milling and processing;
      (24)   Forge or foundry works;
      (25)   Gas, generation or storage for illumination or heating;
      (26)   Gelatin, glue and size, animal;
      (27)   Grain drying or poultry feed manufacturing from refuse, mash or
grain;
      (28)   Hair or hair products manufacturing;
      (29)   Ink manufacturing;
      (30)   Junk yard;
      (31)   Lime or lime products manufacturing;
      (32)   Linoleum and oilcloth;
      (33)   Linoleum and oilcloth or oiled goods manufacturing;
      (34)   Magnesium foundries;
      (35)   Match manufacturing;
      (36)   Meat packing, but not including stockyards or slaughter houses;
      (37)   Metal and metal ores (except precious and rare metals), reduction,
refining, smelting and alloying;
      (38)   Paint, lacquer, shellac, varnishes, linseed oil and turpentine,
enamel;
      (39)   Paper and pulp manufacturing;
      (40)   Perfume manufacturing;
      (41)   Pickle, sauerkraut or sausage manufacturing;
      (42)   Plaster manufacturing;
      (43)   Poultry, slaughterhouse, including packing and storage for
wholesale;
      (44)   Radium extraction;
      (45)   Sandblasting or cutting;
      (46)   Sawmill, the manufacture or excelsior, wood fiber or sawdust
products;
      (47)   Shoddy manufacturing;
      (48)   Shoe blacking or polish or store polish manufacturing;
      (49)   Soaps, including fat and oil rendering;
      (50)   Starch;
      (51)   Steam power plants;
      (52)   Stone and monument works employing power-drive tools;
      (53)   Storage, drying, cleaning of iron, junk, rags, glass, cloth, paper
or clipping, including sorting, refining, baling, wood pulling and scouring;
      (54)   Sugar refining;
      (55)   Tar or asphalt roofing or water-proofing manufacturing;
      (56)   Tar distillation or manufacturing;
      (57)   Vinegar manufacturing;
      (58)   Wire or rod drawing; nut, screw or bolt manufacturing;
      (59)   Wood pulp and fiber, reduction and processing, including paper
mill operation; and
      (60)   Yeast manufacturing.
   (E)   Wireless communications facilities, wireless communications facility
with wireless support structure and wireless support structure in accordance
with the provisions of §§
156.370 through
156.375 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2019-012, passed 8-21-2019)
§ 156.326 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   Those uses listed as special exceptions for the M-2 General Industrial
District in §
156.509 of this chapter may be permitted in accordance with the provisions of
§§
156.505 through
156.508 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.327 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses, buildings, or structures customarily incidental to any
aforesaid principal use or special exception shall be permitted in conjunction
with such use, and home occupations as regulated by §§
156.420 through
156.422.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.328 REQUIRED CONDITION.
   (A)   Any use may be conducted in the M-2 District within or without a
building or enclosure, subject only to distance requirements where applicable.
   (B)   All junk yards shall be enclosed by a well maintained solid fence or
wall which will effectively conceal such yard from adjoining property, streets
and highways, but in any case, not less than six feet high.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.329 PROHIBITED USES.
   Same as specified in the M-1 District.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.330 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Within 200 feet of any A or R district, no structure shall exceed three
stories or 50 feet in height, and no structure in any case shall exceed in
height the distance measured to the center line of any adjoining street; except
as provided in §
156.526 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.331 LOT AREA, FRONTAGE AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   The following minimum requirements shall apply, except as provided in §§
156.228 through
156.232 of this chapter:
 
              Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Minimum Front Minimum Side  Minimum Rear
              Area        Frontage    Yard Depth    Yard Width    Yard Depth
              Sq. Feet    Feet        Feet          Feet          Feet
                                                                  1 story, 40
                                                    None; except  ft.; 2
                                                    when          stories, 50
Non-                                                adjoining an  ft.; 3
Residential   None        None        55            A or R        stories, 60
Uses                                                district,     ft.; 5 feet
                                                    then not less more each
                                                    than 50 feet  additional
                                                                  story
Residential   Dwellings or other residential uses are not permitted
                                      Certified     Certified     Certified
WCFWWSS , WSS 1           None        fall zone of  fall zone of  fall zone of
                                      WSS + 50 feet WSS + 50 feet WSS + 50 feet
 
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2019-012, passed 8-21-2019)
M-3 RURAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.345 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   No building, structure or land shall be erected, altered, enlarged or used
which is arranged or designed for other than one of the following uses, except
as provided herein and in §
156.365 of this chapter, prior uses – non-conforming permitted to continue:
   (A)   Provide no part of a building occupied by permitted uses shall have
any opening other than stationary windows or required fire exits within 100
feet of any A or R district:
      (1)   Blacksmith, welding or other metal working shop, excluding punch
presses over 20 tons rated capacity, drop hammers and other noise-producing
machine-operated tools; machine shops;
      (2)   Foundry, casting lightweight non-ferrous metals or electric foundry
not causing noxious fumes or odor;
      (3)   Bag, carpet, rag cleaning; provided, necessary equipment is
installed and operated for the effective precipitation or recovery of dust;
      (4)   Ice manufacturing and cold storage plant; creamery and bottling
plant; and
      (5)   Industrial park.
   (B)   The following uses when located not less than 200 feet from any A or R
district:
      (1)   Inflammable liquids, underground storage only, not to exceed 25,000
gallons; and
      (2)   Building material sales yards including concrete mixing, lumber
yards including millwork, open yards for storage, sale of feed and/or fuel and
contractor’s equipment storage.
   (C)   The rendering of service or the manufacturing, compounding,
processing, packaging and assembling of products are permitted when located not
less than 300 feet from any A or R district, and not less than 100 feet from
any other district:
      (1)   Acetylene manufacturing in excess of 15 pounds pressure per square
inch;
      (2)   Acid manufacture;
      (3)   Automobile assembly;
      (4)   Beverages, non-alcoholic;
      (5)   Blacksmith shop;
      (6)   Bleaching, cleaning and dyeing plant of large scale production;
      (7)   Boat-building and repair of pleasure craft and other small craft,
but not including shipbuilding or ship repair;
      (8)   Boiler shops, machine shops, structural steel fabricating shops,
railway car or locomotive shops, including repair, metal working shops
employing reciprocating hammers or presses over 20 tons’ rated capacity;
      (9)   Bottling works, beverage;
      (10)   Buses, bus bodies;
      (11)   Cameras and other photographic equipment and supplies;
      (12)   Candle manufacturing;
      (13)   Canvas and canvas products;
      (14)   Ceramic products such as pottery and small glazed tile;
      (15)   Charcoal and fuel briquettes;
      (16)   Cooperage works;
      (17)   Dextrin, starch or glucose manu-facturing;
      (18)   Disinfectant, insecticide or poison manufacturing;
      (19)   Dye and dyestuffs manufacturing;
      (20)   Electric appliances such as lighting fixtures, items, fans,
toasters and electric toys;
      (21)   Electric central station power and steam generating plants;
      (22)   Electrical equipment assembly such as home radio and television
receivers and home movie equipment, but not including electrical machinery;
      (23)   Electrical supplies, manufacturing and assembly of, such as wire
and cable assembly, switches, lamps, insulation and dry cell batteries;
      (24)   Emery cloth or sandpaper manu-facturing;
      (25)   Enameling, lacquering or japanning;
      (26)   Environmental manufacturing or processing centers;
      (27)   Felt manufacturing;
      (28)   Film, photographic;
      (29)   Flour, feed and grain milling and processing;
      (30)   Forge or foundry works;
      (31)   Fur goods, not including tanning or dyeing;
      (32)   Gas, generation or storage for illumination or heating;
      (33)   Gelatin, glue and size, animal;
      (34)   Glass products from previously manufactured glass;
      (35)   Grain drying or poultry feed manufacturing from refuse, mash or
grain;
      (36)   Hair, felt and feather products (except washing, curing and
dyeing);
      (37)   Hat bodies of fur and wool felt;
      (38)   Hosiery;
      (39)   House trailers;
      (40)   Ice, dry and natural;
      (41)   Ink manufacturing, mixing and packaging and inked ribbons;
      (42)   Insecticides;
      (43)   Leather products, including shoes and machine belting;
      (44)   Lime or lime products manufacturing;
      (45)   Linoleum and oil cloth or oiled goods manufacturing;
      (46)   Livestock, confined for immediate slaughter only, slaughter
houses, meat packing;
      (47)   Luggage;
      (48)   Magnesium foundries;
      (49)   Match manufacturing;
      (50)   Meat products processing;
      (51)   Metal finishing, plating, grinding, sharpening, polishing,
cleaning, rust-proofing and heat treatment;
      (52)   Metal and metal ores (except precious and rare metals), reduction,
refining, smelting and alloying;
      (53)   Metal stamping and extrusion of small products such as costume
jewelry, pins and needles, razor blades, bottle caps, buttons and kitchen
utensils;
      (54)   Musical instruments;
      (55)   Orthopedic and medical appliances such as artificial limbs,
braces, supporters and stretchers;
      (56)   Paint, lacquer, shellac, varnishes, linseed oil and turpentine,
enamel;
      (57)   Paper and pulp manufacturing;
      (58)   Paper products, small, such as envelopes and stationery, bags,
boxes, tubes and wallpaper printing;
      (59)   Perfume manufacturing;
      (60)   Perfumes and perfumed soaps, compounding only;
      (61)   Pharmaceutical products, compounding only;
      (62)   Pickle, sauerkraut or sausage manufacturing;
      (63)   Plaster manufacturing;
      (64)   Poultry, rabbits and exotic animal slaughterhouse, including
packing and storage for wholesale, also the breeding, raising and delivery of
laboratory animals for laboratory services;
      (65)   Precision instruments such as optical, medical and drafting;
      (66)   Products from finished materials, including plastic, bone, cork,
feathers, felt fiber, paper, fur, glass, hair, horn, leather, precious and
semiprecious stones, rubber, shell or yarn;
      (67)   Radium extraction;
      (68)   Rubber products, small and synthetic treated fabrics, (excluding
all rubber and synthetic processing) such as washers, gloves, footwear, bathing
caps and atomizers;
      (69)   Sandblasting or cutting;
      (70)   Sawmill, the manufacture or excelsior, wood fiber or sawdust
products;
      (71)   Silverware, plate and sterling;
      (72)   Shoddy manufacturing;
      (73)   Shoe blacking or polish or store polish manufacturing;
      (74)   Soap and detergents, packaging;
      (75)   Soaps, including fat and oil rendering;
      (76)   Sporting and athletic equipment such as balls, baskets, cues,
gloves, bats, racquets and rods;
      (77)   Starch;
      (78)   Statuary, mannequins, figurines and religious and church art
goods, excluding foundry operations;
      (79)   Steam power plants;
      (80)   Stone and monument works employing power-driven tools;
      (81)   Sugar refining;
      (82)   Tar or asphalt roofing or water-proofing manufacturing;
      (83)   Tar distillation or manufacturing;
      (84)   Textiles, including spinning, weaving, manufacturing, dyeing,
printing knit goods, yarn, thread and cordage, but not including textile
bleaching;
      (85)   Tobacco curing and manufacturing and tobacco products;
      (86)   Tools and hardware such as bolts, nuts and screws, doorknobs,
drills, hand tools and cutlery, hinges, and house hardware, locks, non-ferrous
metal castings and plumbing appliances;
      (87)   Toys;
      (88)   Umbrellas;
      (89)   Upholstering (bulk), including mattress manufacturing, rebuilding
and renovating;
      (90)   Vehicles, children’s such as bicycles, scooters, wagons and baby
carriages;
      (91)   Vinegar manufacturing;
      (92)   Wire or rod drawing; nut, screw or bolt manufacturing;
      (93)   Wood products, such as furniture boxes, crates, baskets, pencils
and cooperage works;
      (94)   Wood pulp and fiber, reduction and processing, including paper
mill operation; and
      (95)   Yeast manufacturing.
   (D)   Wireless communication facilities, wireless communication facility
with wireless support structure and wireless support structures in accordance
with the provisions of §§
156.370 through
156.375 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. passed 2-5-1997; Ord. 2004-006, passed 12-23-2003;
Ord. 2019-012, passed 8-21-2019)
§ 156.346 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   Those uses listed as special exceptions for the M-3 Rural Industrial
District in §
156.509 of this chapter may be permitted in accordance with the provisions of
§§
156.505 through
156.508 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. passed 2-5-1997)
§ 156.347 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses, buildings, or structures customarily incidental to any
aforesaid principal use or special exception shall be permitted in conjunction
with such use, and home occupations as regulated by §§
156.420 through
156.422.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. passed 2-5-1997; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.348 REQUIRED CONDITION.
   Any permitted use may be conducted in the M-3 District within or without a
building or enclosure, subject only to distance requirements where applicable.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. passed 2-5-1997)
§ 156.349 PROHIBITED USES.
   (A)   Automotive wrecking yards, junk, and salvage yards; and
   (B)   Asbestos manufacturing.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. passed 2-5-1997; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.350 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No structure shall exceed 95 feet, except as provided in §
156.526 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. passed 2-5-1997; Ord. 2004-010, passed 8-11-2004)
§ 156.351 LOT AREA, FRONTAGE AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
 
              Minimum Lot Minimum Lot Minimum Front Minimum Side  Minimum Rear
              Area        Frontage    Yard Depth    Yard Width    Yard Depth
              Feet        Feet        Feet          Feet          Feet
                                                                  1 story, 40
                                                    None; except  ft.; 2
                                                    when          stories, 50
Non-                                                adjoining an  ft.; 3
Residential   None        None        55            A or R        stories, 60
Uses                                                district,     ft.; 5 feet
                                                    then not less more each
                                                    than 50 feet  additional
                                                                  story
                                      Certified     Certified     Certified
WCFWWSS , WSS 1           None        fall zone of  fall zone of  fall zone of
                                      WSS + 50 feet WSS + 50 feet WSS + 50 feet
 
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. passed 2-5-1997; Ord. 2019-012, passed 8-21-2019)
NON-CONFORMING USES
§ 156.365 PRIOR USES; NON-CONFORMING PERMITTED TO CONTINUE.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter specified, any use, building or structure,
existing at the time of the enactment of this chapter may be continued, even
though such use, building or structure may not conform with the provisions of
this chapter for the district in which it is located.
   (B)   No existing building or lot devoted to a use not permitted by this
chapter in the district in which such building or lot is located, except when
required to do so by law or order, shall be enlarged, extended, reconstructed,
substituted or structurally altered, unless the use thereof is changed to a use
permitted in the district in which such building or premises is located and
except as follows.
      (1)   When authorized by the Board, in accordance with the provisions of
§§
156.570 through
156.578 of this chapter, the substitution for a non-conforming use of another
not more objectionable non-conforming use or an extension or a non-conforming
use may be made, but not both a substitution and an extension.
      (2)   When authorized by the Board in accordance with the provisions of
§§
156.570 through
156.578 of this chapter, the extension or completion of a building devoted to a
non-conforming use upon a lot occupied by such building or on a lot in question
on the date the use of such building became non- conforming and where such
extension is necessary and identical to the existing use of such building.
      (3)   When authorized by the Board in accordance with the provisions of
§§
156.570 through
156.578 of this chapter, a non-conforming use may be extended throughout those
parts of a building which were manifestly designed and arranged for such use
prior to the date when such use of said building became non-conforming, if no
structural alterations, except those required by law, are made therein.
         (a)   Whenever a non-conforming use has been changed to a conforming
use, such use shall not thereafter be changed to a non-conforming use.
         (b)   No building, structure or lot where a non-conforming use has
ceased for one year or more shall again be put to a non-conforming use.
         (c)   Such repairs and maintenance work as required to keep it in
sound condition may be made to a non-conforming building or structure;
provided, no structural alterations shall be made, except such as are required
by law or authorized by the Board.
         (d)   Variances may be authorized by the Board of Zoning Appeals in
the event that a non-conforming use existed on 10-30-1967 and the use has
ceased for a period of one continuous year. The variance can include the use in
effect on 10-30-1967 or a substitution of a use not less restrictive than that
use that was non-conforming on 10-30-1967. While a substitution of a non-
conforming use that is less restrictive may be granted, and an extension of a
non- conforming use that has ceased to exist for one continuous year cannot be
granted or approved.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.366 MINIMUM LIVING AREA OF A RESIDENCE.
   The minimum living area of a residence (excluding attached garages, patios,
porches, decks, and unfinished basements) shall be 576 square feet.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2003-002, passed 3-26-2003; Ord. 2023-02, passed
4-12-2023)
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS AND
SUPPORT STRUCTURES
§ 156.370 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to:
   (A)   Regulate the design, construction, placement, modification, and
removal of wireless communications facility, wireless communications facility
with wireless support structure and wireless support structure;
   (B)   Allow the providers of wireless communications services to provide for
adequate coverage and capacity while minimizing the overall impact of
additional towers and protecting the fundamental characteristics of the various
zoning districts;
   (C)   Encourage co-location, the use of attached facilities, concealed
facilities, and the use of appropriate public and semi-public properties
whenever feasible;
   (D)   Require designs and parameters compatible with adjacent land uses, and
to conserve the scenic, historic, aesthetic and environmental quality of Wayne
County and the tourism industry based thereon from the adverse impacts of
wireless communications facilities development;
   (E)   Promote long-range planning and cooperation between the citizens and
property owners of Wayne County, the Wayne County Advisory Plan Commission, the
Board of Zoning Appeals, the County Commissioners, and the wireless
communications services providers;
   (F)   Protect, wherever possible, the public health, safety and general
welfare of the community; and
   (G)   Give due regard to the policies of Wayne County's Comprehensive Plan
when evaluating proposals for wireless communications facility, wireless
communications facility with wireless support structure or wireless support
structure.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 8-21-2019)
§ 156.371 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Permitted uses without a special exception or an improvement location
permit.
      (1)   Co-location: Placement of an antenna array, wireless communications
facility, micro wireless facility, small cell facility and small cell network,
on a legally existing or previously approved wireless communications facility,
wireless communications facility with wireless support structure or wireless
support structure, including water towers or other permitted structures, that
does not increase the engineer certified fall zone requirement of the wireless
support structure or enlarges the size of a compound is exempt from BZA
approval and from the requirement to obtain an improvement location permit.
   (B)   Permitted uses without a special exception, but with an improvement
location permit.
      (1)   New wireless communications facility, wireless communications
facility with wireless support structure or wireless support structure are
permitted uses in the A-1, A-2, C-1, C-2, C-3, M-1, M-2 and M-3 Districts,
subject to all requirements of this subchapter.
      (2)   Attached wireless communications facility. An antenna array may be
integrated with/within another existing structure (e.g., a building facade or
water tower) as long as the attachment would not constitute a substantial
modification.
      (3)   Replacement or expansion of a legal, existing wireless
communications facility, wireless communications facility with wireless support
structure or wireless support structure that would constitute a substantial
modification. This replacement is subject to the application procedures,
general requirements and abandonment provisions of this subchapter.
      (4)   (a)   The use of cell on wheels/carrier on wheels (COW) facilities*
shall be permitted in any zone district, outside of a designated floodway,
after administrative review and approval, subject to all federal requirements,
and meeting the following requirements:
            1.    Non-emergency COWs may be placed for not more than 120
consecutive days.
            2.   Special event COWs may be installed up to 45 consecutive days
before such event, for the duration of the event, and for up to 14 consecutive
days thereafter.
         (b)   *Exception: After a declaration of an emergency or disaster by
federal, state, county government, or a determination of public necessity by
the director of planning, COWs are authorized without permitting.
   (C)   Permitted uses with a special exception and an improvement location
permit.
      (1)   Wireless communications facility, wireless communications facility
with wireless support structure or wireless support structure are permitted in
the A-1-CP, R-S, R-1 and R-2 by special exception through the Board of Zoning
Appeals or by the Hearing Officer for the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (D)   Conditions of approval. The following conditions apply to all
permitted uses:
      (1)   Applicants and/or petitioners agree to make a good faith effort on
terms consistent with any applicable national agreement or on terms common to
the region, to accommodate requests for co-location that originate from a
service provider, from the wireless communications facility owner, wireless
communications facility with wireless support structure owner, wireless support
structure owner, or from the Board of Zoning Appeals;
   (E)   Exemptions. Wireless communications facilities that serve police,
fire, ambulance and other emergency dispatch; amateur (HAM) radio; antennas
used solely for residential household television and radio reception and
satellite dishes measuring two feet or less in diameter are exempt from the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (F)   Prohibitions. Any wireless communications facility, wireless
communications facility with wireless support structure or wireless support
structure not expressly permitted under division (A), (B) or (C) are
prohibited. Speculative construction of towers for future leasing (i.e.,
without a specific requirement for antennas at the time the application for the
tower is submitted) is specifically prohibited.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 8-21-2019)
§ 156.372 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements apply to all wireless communications facility,
wireless communications facility with wireless support structure or wireless
support structure that are erected or placed within the county's jurisdictional
area, outside of a designated right-of-way, upon the adoption of Ordinance No.
2019-012:
   (A)   For each application under §
156.371(A) through (C), the property owners, wireless communications facility,
wireless communications facility with wireless support structure or wireless
support structure owners, and wireless communications service provider(s) shall
be considered co-applicants and shall be jointly and severally subject to the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The co-location of small cell facilities on privately owned utility
pole, privately owned wireless support structure or private property without
the consent of the owner is not permitted.
   (C)   Each notification to co-locate to an existing wireless communications
facility, wireless communications facility with wireless support structure or
wireless support structure shall be accompanied by the following information:
      (1)   A completed notification that:
         (a)   Identifies the property and business owner's names and addresses
and points of contact for the applicants;
         (b)   Includes original signature(s) from the property owners and/or
the applicant* acting as the authorized agent of the property owners. *wireless
communications facility, wireless communications facility with wireless support
structure or wireless support structure owners or wireless communications
service providers;
         (c)   States the location (address if available) of the proposed co-
location of a wireless communications facility on an approved wireless
communications facility, wireless communications facility with wireless support
structure or wireless support structure;
         (d)   States any change in the engineer's certified fall zone
requirement of the wireless support structure and/or enlarges the size of a
compound.
   (D)   An application to apply for an improvement location permit, an
application for a special exception for placement of a new wireless
communications facility, wireless communications facility with wireless support
structure or wireless support structure or an application for a variance from
the development standards for same, shall be accompanied by the following
information:
      (1)   A completed application that:
         (a)   Identifies the property and business owner's names and addresses
and points of contact for the applicants;
         (b)   Includes original signature(s) from the property owners and/or
the applicant* acting as the authorized agent of the property owners. *wireless
communications facility, wireless communications facility with wireless support
structure or wireless support structure owners or wireless communications
service providers (notarized as applicable);
         (c)   States the parcel address (if available), brief legal
description, acreage, easements, access to roadways, lot width, length of
frontage, a current aerial photograph of the parcel and the site plan drawn to
scale with the front, side and rear yard setback distances, the type, height,
width and engineer's certified fall zone of the wireless support structure and
distances to off premises structures, as may be required, and all other
information necessary to demonstrate compliance with this subchapter.
      (2)   For new wireless communications facility with wireless support
structure and wireless support structure evidence showing that the application
complies with the special exception criteria set forth in this subchapter.
      (3)   For new wireless communications facility with wireless support
structure and wireless support structure that also require variance approval,
evidence showing that the application complies with the variance criteria set
forth in this subchapter.
   (E)   If an applicant submits the information required by this section, the
application shall be deemed to be complete.
   (F)   An applicant may submit a single special exception petition
application to establish multiple small cell facilities as part of a single
small cell network.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 8-21-2019)
§ 156.373 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Security. For all wireless communications facility with wireless
support structure, excepting attached WCF, a perimeter fence at least eight
feet high shall be installed to circumscribe and contain the wireless
communications facility with wireless support structure, along with all
accessory structures and equipment. Use of razor wire is prohibited.
   (B)   Lighting.
      (1)   Security lighting is not required. However, if security lighting is
installed it shall be confined to accessory structure(s), directed downward to
minimized glare or intrusion into adjoining properties.
      (2)   Any wireless communications facility, wireless communications
facility with wireless support structure or wireless support structure or
antenna array that requires illumination shall meet FAA requirements. When
there is a choice between red and white strobe lights on the tower, red lights
with maximum intervals between flashes shall be required. All lighting shall be
shielded underneath or on the bottom of the bulb, so as to reduce glare on
adjoining and nearby uses.
      (3)   Other illumination is prohibited.
   (C)   Signage. Identification signage, no more than three square feet in
total area, shall be required for each wireless communications facility with
wireless support structure. identification signage shall include the name(s) of
the facility owner(s) or operator(s) and a 24-hour emergency telephone number
and shall be affixed to a perimeter fence or entrance where possible.
Advertising signage is prohibited.
   (D)   Attached WCF. Attached WCF shall be appropriately integrated with, or
within, existing structures with due consideration given to sitting/placement,
color, camouflage, size and type of construction. Attached WCF shall be
designed to minimize visual impact and antenna arrays shall not exceed the
height of the existing structure by more than 20 feet.
   (E)   Color and camouflage. The Planning Director shall reserve the right to
require architectural camouflage, or "stealth design," if a proposed site is
deemed sensitive for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   The prospective site is located in, or within 300 feet of, property
officially designated as "Historic" by the State of Indiana or is listed with
the Indiana Historic Site and Structures Inventory or listed with the National
Register of Historic Places.
      (2)   The prospective site lies in, or within 300 feet of a right-of-way
classified as a scenic corridor by the Wayne County Comprehensive Plan or the
State of Indiana.
   (F)   Health and safety.
      (1)   All wireless communications facility, wireless communications
facility with wireless support structure or wireless support structure shall be
constructed, operated, maintained and monitored in compliance with all
applicable federal (i.e., FCC and FAA) and state standards and requirements.
      (2)   Wireless communications facility, wireless communications facility
with wireless support structure or wireless support structure that would be
classified as a hazard to air navigation, as defined by the Federal Aviation
Administration, shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 8-21-2019)
§ 156.374 TEMPORARY WCF.
   (A)   Temporary WCF or antennas shall be permitted for test purposes,
emergency communications or in the event of equipment failure for a maximum
period of two weeks, subject to the requirements of §
156.372.
   (B)   If the application is investigating co-location opportunities for a
proposed antenna array and demonstrates with written documentation that good
faith co-location negotiations are in process, a temporary WCF may be approved
by the Planning Director for a period not to exceed six months subject to the
requirements of §
156.372.
   (C)   An improvement location permit shall be required for each temporary
WCF.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 8-21-2019)
§ 156.375 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Any wireless communications facility, wireless communications facility
with wireless support structure or wireless support structure that is no longer
needed or used for its intended purpose shall be considered abandoned and shall
be reported immediately by the service provider to the Planning Director. All
abandoned wireless communications facility, wireless communications facility
with wireless support structure or wireless support structure shall be
completely removed by, and at the expense of, the service provider and/or owner
within six months from the date of abandonment and the surface of the site
shall be restored to a condition suitable for development.
   (B)   The county may remove any discontinued wireless communications
facility, wireless communications facility with wireless support structure or
wireless support structure that is not completely removed within six months
from the date of abandonment. Costs associated with the dismantling and removal
of an abandoned wireless communications facility, wireless communications
facility with wireless support structure or wireless support structure and site
restoration shall be paid by the service provider and/or owner as described in
§
156.999.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 8-21-2019)
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
§ 156.380 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The development of the areas of the county could
result in the potential loss of life and property, create health and safety
hazards, and lead to extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and
relief. Since development of these areas is not essential to the orderly growth
of the community and since these lands are suitable for open space uses that do
not require structure or fill, the following shall apply.
   (B)   Mobile home tie-down. See §
156.415 of this chapter.
   (C)   Regulations. Regulation for county flood control and flood hazard
areas, floodplain districts, the uses in floodplain districts, non-conforming
uses, the variances, duties of the Zoning Administrator and Administration,
elevation determination, national flood insurance program compliance and all
other matters pertaining to the flood insurance study of the County of Wayne,
Indiana, the administration of Federal insurance for flood areas, and
compliance with the State Department of Natural Resources are subject to a
separate Flood Insurance and Flood Hazard Area Ordinance adopted by the county
on 6-23-1993. All sections and divisions of this chapter are governed by that
ordinance, as they pertain to the Floodplain or Flood Hazard Ordinance. In the
event that any portions of the development or zoning matters for the county are
not covered by the Flood Ordinance, then the terms of this chapter will
prevail. In the event of conflicting sections of the ordinances, then the most
strict of the sections will apply, unless they effect the compliance with the
federal or state regulation, in which event the section providing for
compliance will prevail.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. passed 12-21-1994)
OFF-STREET LOADING AND PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 156.395 OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE.
   (A)   (1)   In any district in connection with any building or part thereof,
hereafter erected or altered, which is to be occupied by industrial,
warehousing, wholesale commercial, retail commercial, service or other uses
requiring the receipt or distribution by truck of materials or merchandise,
there shall be provided and maintained off-street loading space in accordance
with the following schedule:
 
Floor Area of Building Sq. Feet Required Number of Off-Street Loading Spaces
Less than 10,000                0
10,000 to 19,999                1
20,000 to 39,999                2
40,000 to 59,999                3
80,000 to 99,999                5
 
      (2)   Where the floor area of the building is 100,000 feet or more the
number of off-street loading spaces shall be determined by the Board.
   (B)   Each loading space shall be not less than ten feet in width, 25 feet
in length and 14 feet in height.
   (C)   Loading space shall be on the same lot with the building they are
intended to serve and may occupy all or any part of any required yard;
provided, no such space shall be closer than 50 feet from any other lot located
in any R district unless wholly within a completely enclosed building or
enclosed on all sides by a well maintained wall or uniformly painted solid
board fence not less than six feet in height.
   (D)   There shall be adequate provision for ingress or egress. Where a lot
does not abut on a public or private street, alley or easement of access, there
shall be provided an access drive leading to the loading spaces required
hereunder; such access drive shall not be less than 18 feet in width, and shall
not be located in any R district, except where provided in connection with a
use permitted in an R district.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.396 ACCESSORY OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE.
   (A)   In all districts, in connection with every residential, office, retail
commercial, service, wholesale commercial, industrial, institutional,
recreational or other use, there shall be provided, at the time any use and/or
building or structure is erected or enlarged, or increased in capacity, off-
street parking spaces for automobiles in accordance with the requirements
herein. Such spaces may be provided either in garages or parking areas
conforming with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Accessory off-street parking spaces shall be located in the same or a
less restricted district as those in which the principal use is permitted;
provided, however, that, the Commission may authorize, as a special exception
subject to the provisions of §§
156.505 through
156.509 of this chapter, the establishment and operation of accessory off-
street parking facilities in such sections of any R district which abut either
directly or across an alley, any C or M district subject to the following
requirements.
      (1)   Such parking area shall be accessory to one or more business or
industrial establishments located in said adjoining C or M district.
      (2)   Each entrance and exit of such parking area shall be distant at
least 20 feet from any adjacent lot in any R district.
      (3)   No sign of any kind shall be established and maintained on such
parking area, except signs used for the direction of traffic.
      (4)   No motor vehicle repair work or other service shall be conducted on
such parking area.
      (5)   Such parking area shall be subject to all applicable requirements
of this section and to any additional requirements or conditions which may be
determined necessary by the Commission for the protection of adjacent property.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.397 NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   (A)   The number of off-street parking spaces required shall be as set forth
in the following:
Use Parking Spaces Required
Use                                     Parking Spaces Required
Bowling alleys                          5 for each alley
Churches, auditoriums, theaters,        1 for each 8 seats or 100 square feet
arenas, dance and assembly halls        of floor space, whichever is greater
Dwellings, 1-, 2- and multi-family      1 for each family or dwelling unit
                                        4 for each parlor or 1 for each 50
Funeral home                            square feet of floor area, whichever is
                                        greater
Hospitals                               1 for each 4 beds
Hotels                                  1 for each 2 bedrooms
Libraries, museums, art galleries and   1 for each 500 square feet of floor
similar cultural facilities             area
Medical or dental clinics               1 for each 200 square feet of floor
                                        area
Mobile home parks                       1 for each mobile home space, plus 1
                                        additional for each 4 spaces
Motels                                  1 for each living or sleeping unit
Restaurants, beer parlors and night     1 for each 200 square feet of floor
clubs, over 500 square feet in area     area
Retail businesses, service              1 for each 400 square feet of floor
establishments and offices under 2,000  area
square feet in floor area
Retail businesses, service
establishments and offices 2,000 square 1 for each 200 square feet of such area
feet or over in floor area
                                        1 for each 3 faculty and staff members,
Schools                                 plus 1 for each 10 students at the high
                                        school or college level
Wholesale, commercial, warehousing      1 for each 3 employed on the maximum
manufacturing and industrial uses       shift or for each 3,000 square feet of
                                        floor area, whichever is greater
 
   (B)   In the case of any building, structure or premises, the use of which
is not specifically mentioned herein the provisions for a use which is so
mentioned and to which said use is similar shall apply.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following units of measurement
shall apply.
      (1)   In the case of offices, merchandising or service types of uses,
FLOOR AREA shall mean the gross floor area used or intended to be used by
tenants or for service to the public as customers, patrons, clients or
patients, including areas occupied by fixtures and equipment used for the
display or sale of merchandise. It shall not include areas used principally for
non-public purposes, such as storage, incidental repair, processing or packing
of merchandise, for show windows, for offices incidental to the management of
maintenance of stores or buildings, for toilet or restrooms, for utilities or
for dressing rooms, fitting or alteration rooms.
      (2)   In hospitals, bassinets shall not be counted as beds.
      (3)   In places of public assembly in which patrons or spectators occupy
benches, pews or other such seating facilities, each 20 inches of such seating
facilities shall be counted as one seat.
   (D)   Whenever on any lot or in any building there is a change in use or an
increase in floor area or in the number of employees or other unit of
measurement hereinbefore specified for the determination of required off-street
parking spaces, additional off-street parking facilities shall be provided on
the basis of the increased requirements of the new use or other unit of
measurement; provided, however, that, in case such change in use creates a need
for increase in off-street parking spaces of less than 10% of the parking
facilities previously required, no additional parking facilities shall be
required.
   (E)   Nothing in the section shall be construed to prevent collective
provision of accessory off-street parking facilities for two or more buildings
or uses; provided that, the total of such off-street parking spaces supplied
collectively shall not be less than the sum of the requirements for the various
uses computed separately; and, further provided that, the requirements set
forth in §
156.398 of this chapter as to the maximum distances between parking areas and
establishments served shall apply to each such establishment participating in
the collective provision of parking.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.398 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Each off-street parking space shall have an area of not less than 180
square feet exclusive or access drives or aisles and shall be of usable shape
and condition. Except in the case of dwellings, no parking area provided
hereunder shall be less than 1,000 square feet in area.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be adequate provision for ingress and egress. Where
a lot does not abut on a public or private street, alley or easement of access,
there shall be provided an access drive leading to the parking areas or spaces
required hereunder; such access drive shall not be less than eight feet in
width in the case of a dwelling and not less than 18 feet in width in all other
cases; provided, however, that, one-way aisles for either egress or ingress for
uses other than dwellings may be reduced to not less than ten feet in width.
      (2)   Such access drives shall not be located in any R district, except
where provided in connection with a use permitted in an R district.
   (C)   Accessory off-street parking facilities shall be located as
hereinafter specified; where a distance is specified such distance shall be the
walking distance measured from the nearest point of the parking facility to the
nearest point of the building such facility is required to serve:
      (1)   For one and two-family dwellings: on the same lot with the building
they are required to serve;
      (2)   For office, retail commercial, service, institutional and other
residential uses: not more than 300 feet from the building they are required to
serve; and
      (3)   For all other uses: no more than 1,000 feet from the building they
are intended to serve.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.399 DEVELOPMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF OFF-STREET PARKING AREAS.
   Every lot hereinafter used as a public or private parking area including a
public parking lot as well as motor vehicle and trailer sale lots shall be
developed and maintained in accordance with the following requirements.
   (A)   Off-street parking areas for more than five vehicles shall be
effectively screened on each side which adjoins or faces institutional premises
or premises situated in any R district by a masonry wall or solid fence. Such
wall or fence shall not be less than four feet in height and shall be
maintained in good condition. Where the capacity of the parking area exceeds 30
vehicles, it shall be screened by a masonry wall of at least the height herein
above prescribed.
   (B)   No part of any parking area for more than five vehicles shall be
closer than ten feet to any dwelling, school, hospital or other institution for
human care located on an adjoining lot unless screened by an unpierced masonry
wall; provided, however, that, parking areas for 25 or more automobiles or for
trucks and buses shall not have an entrance or exit for vehicles within 200
feet along the same side of the street of any school, public playground,
church, hospital, public library or institution for dependents or for children,
except where such property is in another block or on another street which the
lot in question does not abut.
   (C)   Any off-street parking area for more than five vehicles shall be
surfaced with an asphaltic or portland cement binder pavement so as to provided
a durable, dustless surface; shall be so graded and drained as to dispose of
all surface water accumulated within the area; and shall be so arranged and
marked as to provide for orderly and safe loading and unloading and parking and
storage of self-propelled vehicles.
   (D)   Any lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking area shall be
so arranged as to reflect the light away from adjoining premises.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.400 MODIFICATIONS.
   The Board may, on appeal, authorize a modification, reduction or waiver of
the foregoing requirements if it should find that, in the particular case
appealed, the peculiar nature of the residential, office, retail commercial,
service, wholesale commercial, industrial, institutional, recreational or other
use, or the exceptional shape or size of the property or other exceptional
situation and condition would justify such an action.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
SITING REGULATIONS
§ 156.405 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the solar energy systems siting regulations is
to regulate the safe, effective, and appropriate development and production of
solar-generated electricity within the jurisdiction of the Wayne County,
Indiana, Advisory Plan Commission (APC) by the development of standards for
solar generated energy. To achieve this goal, these regulations: a) encourage
utilization of natural resources and ecologically sound energy sources; b)
support Indiana's alternative energy sources potential; and c) maintain
economic opportunities for local residents.
   (B)   Intent. The intent of the solar energy systems siting regulations is
to provide a regulatory plan for the development, construction and operation of
solar energy systems (SES) within the jurisdiction of the APC; to establish
reasonable guidelines and restrictions on SES development, construction,
operation, rehabilitation, and decommission (including site restoration); and
to preserve the health, safety and general welfare of local residents and the
general public, in accordance with the Wayne County, Indiana Comprehensive
Plan.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.406 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter are applicable to those zoning
districts that allow or may allow a solar energy system (SES). See §
156.414.
   (B)   Provisions of this subchapter that are specifically applicable to a
noncommercial solar energy system (SESNC) shall apply to an SES-NC only.
   (C)   Provisions of this subchapter that are specifically applicable to a
commercial solar energy system (SES-C) shall apply to an SES-C only.
   (D)   (1)   Provisions without reference to a specific type of SES shall
apply to either type of SES, unless determined otherwise by the Plan
Administrator of the APC.
      (2)   An applicant for a SES may appeal the requirement, decision, or
determination of the Administrator in the manner prescribed by applicable Rules
of the Wayne County, Indiana Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA), the Wayne County
Zoning Ordinance (Zoning Ordinance), and statute(s).
   (E)   When any part of the development, construction, rehabilitation,
operation, decommissioning, or restoration of a SES requires action,
recommendations, hearing and/or decision pursuant to the provisions of the
Zoning Ordinance, notice shall be given pursuant to the Zoning Ordinance and
the applicable By-Laws of the APC and the Rules of Procedure (Rules) of the
BZA.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.407 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   An SES-NC with an aggregate collection area of eight square feet or
less is exempt from this subchapter.
   (B)   An SES constructed prior to the effective date of this subchapter
shall not be required to meet the terms and conditions of this subchapter.
      (1)   Any physical modifications to an existing SES - even an SES
existing prior to the effective date of this subchapter - that materially
alters the SES shall require approval under this subchapter.
      (2)   Routine maintenance or like-kind replacements do not require a
permit.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.408 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall construct, operate, or locate an SES within the
jurisdiction of the APC without having fully complied with the provisions of
this subchapter and all other applicable provisions of said Zoning Ordinance
and any applicable Rules of the BZA and By-Laws of the APC.
   (B)   A concentrated solar thermal power system is prohibited and is not
considered an SES-C for the purposes of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.409 CONFLICT WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter is intended to pre-empt other applicable
state and federal laws or regulations. Nor shall any provisions of this
subchapter interfere with, abrogate, or annul any other ordinance, rule,
regulation, statute, or other provision of law.
   (B)   If any provision of this subchapter imposes restrictions different
from any other ordinance, rule, regulation, statute, or provision of law, the
provision which is more or most restrictive or which imposes the higher or the
highest standard(s) shall take precedence.
   (C)   Standards specified in this subchapter that conflict with standards
found in other subchapters of the Wayne County Zoning Ordinance take
precedence, as this subchapter relates to a solar energy system.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.410 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   An SES-NC or an SES-C, as defined in this subchapter, is allowed, may be
allowed by special exception, or shall not be allowed in zoning districts as
prescribed by §
156.414.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.411 NONCOMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES-NC) GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permitted accessory use for SES-NC.
      (1)   A noncommercial solar energy system that meets the requirements of
this subchapter is a permitted accessory use in all zoning districts where
structures of any sort are allowed. See §
156.414.
      (2)   A solar carport is a permitted accessory use, including on a
surface parking lot, in all districts regardless of the existence of another
building.
   (B)   Safety, design, and installation standards for SES-NC.
      (1)   Interference from adjacent or nearby properties.
         (a)   When selecting a site for solar panels, an applicant shall take
into consideration the potential maximum allowable structure height and
possible landscaping of the adjacent and nearby properties to avoid
interference and potential loss of efficiency from the sun to the solar panel
surface.
         (b)   As part of the application process, a written disclaimer is
required acknowledging an issued permit does not imply any solar access rights.
See §
156.411(D) "Disclaimer and Solar Easement For SES-NC".
      (2)   Roof-mounted and wall-mounted SES-NC.
         (a)   A roof-mounted or wall-mounted SES-NC may be located on a
principal or accessory building.
            1.   Any such system shall be installed in accordance with
applicable building codes.
         (b)   A roof-mounted system on a flat roof that is visible from the
nearest edge of the building's front right-of-way shall not be more than five
feet in height above the finished roof.
      (3)   Building-integrated photovoltaic SES-NC.
         (a)   A building-integrated photovoltaic SES-NC may be utilized in the
construction of a principal or accessory building.
         (b)   Any such system shall be installed in accordance with applicable
building codes.
      (4)   Ground-mounted SES-NC.
         (a)   A ground-mounted SES-NC shall not be placed:
            1.   Within any legal easement or right-of-way location;
            2.   Within any storm water conveyance system or floodplain;
            3.   In any other manner that would alter or impede storm water
runoff from collecting in a constructed storm water conveyance system. This
includes but is not limited to state, county and privately owned waterways,
ditches, drainage tiles, retention areas, and designed swells.
         (b)   A solar energy system must meet the accessory structure setback
for the zoning district and principal land use associated with the lot on which
the system is located.
         (c)   In a nonresidential district, a ground-mounted SES-NC shall not
exceed 15 feet in height above the ground elevation surrounding the system,
when oriented at maximum vertical tilt.
         (d)   In a residential district, a ground-mounted SES-NC shall not
exceed ten feet in height above the ground elevation surrounding the system,
when oriented at maximum vertical tilt.
         (e)   Safety/warning signage as required by applicable law concerning
voltage shall be placed at ground-mounted electrical devices, equipment, and
structures.
      (5)   Variance.
         (a)   In the event any provision in §
156.411 has the effect of prohibiting the installation of a solar energy
system, the applicant shall have the right to petition the BZA for a variance
from the development standards.
            1.   A site plan shall be submitted with the variance request.
      (6)   Electrical components standards.
         (a)   Electrical system components of an SES-NC shall conform to
applicable local, state, and federal safety codes for similar SES-NCs.
         (b)   Electric system components of an SES-NC shall have an
Underwriters Laboratory (UL), or equivalent listing and a solar hot water
system must have a Solar Rating & Certification Corporation (SRCC) or
equivalent rating.
         (c)   All on-site utility, transmission lines, and plumbing shall be
placed underground to the extent feasible.
         (d)   When solar storage batteries are included as part of the solar
energy collector system, they must be placed in a secure container or enclosure
and installed and maintained as required by applicable law.
      (7)   Utility interconnection.
         (a)   An SES-NC, if interconnected to a utility system, shall meet the
requirements for interconnection and operate as required by applicable law.
      (8)   Visibility.
         (a)   Visibility standards do not apply to a system in a non-
residential district.
         (b)   A solar energy system in residential district shall be designed
to minimize visual impacts from the public right-of-way to the extent that
doing so does not affect the cost or efficacy of the system, consistent with
I.C. 36-7-2-8.
         (c)   A building-integrated photovoltaic solar energy system is exempt
from any visibility standard.
      (9)   Aesthetic restrictions.
         (a)   A roof-mounted or ground-mounted solar energy system shall not
be restricted for aesthetic reasons.
         (b)   A roof-mounted system on a flat roof is exempt from any
screening requirement for aesthetic reasons.
      (10)   Lot coverage.
         (a)   A ground-mounted system shall meet the existing lot coverage
restrictions as defined for the zoning district.
      (11)   Color, finish, and glare.
         (a)   Color and finish.
            1.   To the extent reasonably possible, an SES-NC shall be designed
using such features as color, material, texture, screening, and landscaping to
blend into its setting and avoid significant visual impact.
            2.   An SES-NC shall remain painted or finished in the color and/or
finish that was originally applied by the manufacturer.
            3.   The exterior surface of any visible components shall be a non-
reflective, neutral color (e.g., white, gray) or another non-obtrusive color.
            4.   Finishes shall be matte or non-reflective.
         (b)   Glare.
            1.   To the extent reasonably possible, solar energy panels,
regardless of how they are mounted, shall be oriented and/or screened year-
round so that glare is directed away from adjacent properties and streets.
            2.   An SES-NC using a reflector to enhance solar production shall
minimize glare from the reflector affecting adjacent or nearby properties,
roads, or streets.
            3.   The applicant has the burden of mitigating any glare produced
so as not to have significant adverse impact on adjacent land uses. NOTE:
Mitigation can be accomplished by panel siting, panel orientation, landscaping
and/or other means.)
      (12)   Signage.
         (a)   No portion of an SES-NC shall contain or be used to display
advertising.
            1.   The manufacturer's name and equipment information or
indication of ownership shall be allowed on any equipment of an SES-NC provided
it complies with the prevailing Sign Ordinance.
            2.   Appropriate warning signs will be allowed.
      (13)   Trees and landscaping.
         (a)   Trees or other landscaping required by a county ordinance or
attached as a condition of approval to any non-SES-NC plan, application, or
permit shall not be removed for the installation or operation of an SES-NC.
   (C)   Permit application requirements for SES-NC.
      (1)   Ground-mount SES-NC.
         (a)   An application for a ground-mounted solar energy system requires
an improvement location permit, electrical permit, and any other required
permit or approval from Wayne County and any other agency having jurisdiction
shall include a site plan for review and approval.
            1.   The site plan may be a mechanical drawing or hand-drawn
sketch, but the plan shall show the location of the proposed system, property
lines, lot dimensions, and setback distances, and the maximum height above
grade of the proposed system.
         (b)   Plan approval does not indicate compliance with applicable
building codes or electric codes.
      (2)   Roof-mount or wall-mount SES-NC.
         (a)   An application for a roof-mounted or wall-mounted SES-NC
requires an electrical permit and shall include an engineering certification
from a qualified registered professional engineer that the structure to which
the solar technology will be affixed will tolerate the installed weight and
wind load of said technology.
      (3)   Description of SES-NC.
         (a)   The description of the proposed SES-NC shall include at a
minimum the following:
            1.   Type of solar technology (e.g., solar panels, thermal solar,
solar shingles).
            2.   Solar panel mounting technique (e.g., ground-mount, roof-
mount, wall-mount).
            3.   Solar panel installation height.
            4.   Name plate generating capacity.
            5.   The means of interconnecting with the electrical grid, if
applicable.
            6.   Any accessory structure required by the installation (e.g.,
equipment shed).
   (D)   Disclaimer and solar easement for SES-NC.
      (1)   Disclaimer.
         (a)   Prior to the issuance of an improvement location permit, the
applicant(s) must acknowledge - in writing - that the issuing of said permit
for a solar energy system shall not and does not create in the property owner,
its-his-her-their successors and assigns in title, or create in the property
itself:
            1.   The right to remain free of shadows and/or obstructions to
solar energy caused by development of adjacent or other properties, or the
growth of any trees or vegetation on such property(s); or
            2.   The right to prohibit the development on adjacent or other
properties, or the growth of any trees or vegetation on such properties.
      (2)   Solar easement.
         (a)   This disclaimer is subordinate to any solar easement agreement
entered into with another landowner(s).
            1.   A solar easement is a private agreement between landowners and
does not fall under the purview of this ordinance.
            2.   Any term or condition stated in a solar easement agreement
that conflicts with any requirement set forth in the Wayne County Zoning
Ordinance (e.g., minimum setback requirements, height restrictions) does not
supersede the ordinance.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.412 COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES-C) GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Applicability for SES-C.
      (1)   The provisions of §
156.412 are applicable to those zoning districts that allow or may allow a
solar energy system (SES). See §
156.414.
   (B)   Safety, design, and installation standards for SES-C.
      (1)   Horizontal extension.
         (a)   The furthest horizontal extension of an SES-C, excepting the
SES-C collection system, SES-C transmission lines, point(s) of ingress/egress
and SES-C perimeter access roads/lanes:
            1.   Shall not extend into a setback which is otherwise required
for the zoning district in which the SES-C is located;
            2.   Shall not extend into a setback required for an adjacent
zoning district; and
            3.   Shall not be less than 15 feet from any structure or public
right-of-way easement for any above-ground telephone fine, electrical
transmission line, electrical distribution fine or other above-ground
communication or transmission fine.
      (2)   Height.
         (a)   Ground-mounted SES-C arrays shall not exceed 25 feet in height
when oriented at maximum tilt.
      (3)   Setback requirements.
         (a)   Minimum setbacks.
            1.   The minimum setbacks for an SES-C's above-ground equipment and
structures are measured in a straight-line distance from the outer edge of said
equipment or structure that is nearest to the point of concern, as defined in
Table 1.
            2.   Setbacks apply to solar panels, racking, accessory buildings,
and other power equipment. These do not apply to underground cabling, fencing,
point(s) of ingress/egress or perimeter access roads/lanes.
         (b)   SES-C substation.
            1.   The substation setbacks shall be the same as those of an SES-
C. An adjacent landowner may waive this set back requirement by execution of a
written waiver.
         (c)   Poles and underground wiring.
            1.   For all poles carrying overhead wiring and for any underground
wiring connecting the racks and components of an SES-C and/or to connect an
SES-C to a substation for connection to or other direct connection to a
utility's electric transmission line, there are no setback requirements from
property lines of adjoining landowners so long as the poles and underground
wiring are located within a recorded easement for such purpose or within a
right-of-way.
         (d)   Ground-mounted SES-C.
            1.    Ground-mounted SES-C shall not be placed within any legal
easement or right-of-way location, or be placed within any storm water
conveyance system, or floodplain, or in any other manner that would alter or
impede storm water runoff from collecting in, and/or conveyance through, and/or
discharge from, a constructed storm water conveyance system (including, without
limitation any swale, legal drain, water course or drainage the) except as
permitted in writing by the Wayne County Surveyor and/or Wayne County Drainage
Board, and/or Floodplain Administrator, and owner of the land and/or right-of-
way and/or easement. This would include, but not be limited to, state, county
and/or privately owned waterways, ditches, drainage tiles, retention areas and
designed swells.
               a.    Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in the preceding
division (B)(3)(d)1. shall prevent the replacement, repair, reconstruction and/
or relocation of any such water conveyance system as necessary to develop and
install the SES-C with any necessary approvals from the County Surveyor and/or
County Drainage Board.
         (e)   Any inverter shall be a minimum of 250 feet from any dwelling.
         (f)   Any point of ingress/egress into an SES-C shall be no closer
than 50 feet to the property line of an adjoining nonparticipating parcel.
            1.   The 50 feet is measured from the edge of the entrance at the
road that is nearest to the property line.
         (g)   An SES-C is not permitted on a parcel of less than 40 acres, nor
in residential subdivisions, campgrounds, recreational area, wildlife
preserves, and conservation areas.
TABLE 1 MINIMUM SETBACKS
Straight-Line Distance From: Minimum Setback
TABLE 1 MINIMUM SETBACKS
Straight-Line Distance From:             Minimum Setback
Nearest outer edge of SES-C's above-
ground equipment and structures1 to      Must conform to setback requirement of
middle of any road bordering the         zoning district but at least 45 feet2
property
Nearest outer edge of SES-C's above-
ground equipment and                     20 feet (buffer)
structures1 to any side or rear property
line3, 4
                                         
Nearest outer edge of SES-C's above-
ground equipment and structures1 to
nearest point of the outer wall of a     250 feet
dwelling or public use building of a
nonparticipating property
Point(s) of ingress/egress to any        50 feet
adjoining nonparticipating property
1   e.g., setbacks apply to solar panels, racking, accessory buildings, and
other power equipment. Fences are exempt.
2   In no case may any above-ground feature of the SES-C be within a designated
right-of-way, including fences.
3   Where two participating parcels adjoin in A-1, no setbacks to the property
lines are required.
4   Required fences may be placed on the property line in A-1.
 
      (4)   Ground cover, trees, and landscaping.
         (a)   A natural vegetative ground cover shall be maintained under and
around the solar arrays.
            1.   Only non-invasive species shall be used, and native species
are recommended.
            2.   In interest of protecting pollinators seed mixes consisting of
native meadow grasses and pollinator-friendly wildflower and/or clover species
shall be used in consultation with a USDA Farm Bill biologist or local Soil and
Water Conservation District professional on the area under and around the solar
arrays.
            3.   Maintenance shall include eradication of all noxious weeds and
plants prior to the weeds seeding and spreading.
         (b)   No trees or other landscaping otherwise required by county
ordinances or attached as a condition of approval of any plan, application, or
permit may be removed for the installation or operation of an SES-C.
         (c)   The setback from the middle of the road or from a side or rear
property line constitutes a buffer. The landscaping, screening, and vegetation
within a buffer shall comply with the following design and developmental
standards:
            1.   A natural vegetative ground cover shall be maintained within
the buffer.
               a.   Only non-invasive species shall be used, and native species
are recommended.
               b.    Maintenance shall include eradication of all noxious weeds
and plants prior to the weeds seeding and spreading.
            2.   Where a 250-foot setback is required, a visual barrier will be
required in the buffer to screen the residential use or public use building
from the SES-C.
               a.   A visual barrier shall provide a year-round barrier of
evergreens or other similar plantings.
               b.   The visual barrier shall extend along the length of the
shared property line between the SES-C and the nonparticipating property.
            3.   Only the following improvements shall be permitted within the
buffer:
               a.    Vehicular point(s) of ingress/egress which tie into
approved access points as determined by INDOT and/or Wayne County Highway
Department.
               b.    Landscaping and landscaping fixtures.
               c.    Lighting.
               d.    Fencing.
               e.    Signage.
               f.    Underground utility lines.
               g.    Overhead utility lines.
               h.    Drainage or storm water detention or retention areas.
            4.   The perimeter access road/lane shall be adjoining the fence
which shall adjoin the buffer strip. The visual order of placement shall be
solar panels, perimeter access road/lane, fence then buffer strip (extending to
the property line or right-of-way).
         (d)   Visual barrier.
            1.   A right-of-way in A-1 does not require a visual barrier. A
right-of-way in all other districts, except C-3, M-1, and M-2 require a 45-foot
buffer with a visual barrier.
               a.    Applicant may receive a reduction in density with a
Landscaping and Screening Plan approved by the BZA, with proper notice and
hearing.
            2.   Visual barrier requirements.
               a.   A visual barrier shall be provided for any adjacent
residential or public use building within 400 feet of solar equipment.
               b.   A parcel that has an existing residential use and/or is
parceled to five acres or less with the intent of future residential use shall
be provided a visual barrier.
                  (i)    The five-acre maximum dimension required to be
landscaped along any one side of a residential or public use property line
shall be 726 feet (726 feet by 300 feet = 5 acres).
               c.    Landscaping/screening shall be placed on all sides
adjacent to the SES-C.
                  (i)    If the property owner is unresponsive within 60 days
of the mailing of a certified letter to the taxing address informing them of
their choice (and said 60-day limit) then the location of the visual barrier
along the property line shall be made by the developer.
               d.   A visual barrier is intended to exclude visual contact with
the solar equipment from any protected property.
                  (i)    A visual barrier may be composed of landscaping,
landscaped berm, or combination thereof.
                  (ii)    Solid fencing shall not be used as part of the visual
barrier where the adjacent zoning is Residential, C-1, or C-2.
                  (iii)    The density, buffer width, and method of screening
may be waived by the adjacent property owner(s).
               e.    Natural areas on the same parcel as the solar farm may
also be used to meet screening requirements. A natural area is an existing
vegetated area. The natural area:
                  (i)    Shall be within or include the required buffer;
                  (ii)    Shall be of sufficient height, length, and depth;
                  (iii)    And contain adequate and sufficient healthy
vegetation to provide a visual barrier where required.
                  (iv)    The Administrator may determine that further
screening improvements shall not be required.
               f.   The developer may choose to enter into a waiver agreement
with the adjoining landowner to place the visual barrier on the adjoining
property.
            3.   Buffers adjoining C-1 and C-2 districts and parcels where C-
1 and C-2 permitted uses exist, may use a visual barrier composed of
landscaping, landscaped berm, or any combination thereof to screen from those
districts as approved by the Administrator.
               a.   The Administrator should take into consideration the design
wishes of the adjacent property owner/operator.
               b.    Fencing and walls shall not be used for screening;
however, this requirement may be waived by the adjoining property owner(s).
               c.   The width and density requirements may be waived by the
adjacent property owner(s) to a reduction of landscaping no less than that
required in transition yard density for the district and/or a reduction of
width equal to the greater of 50% of the required buffer width shown in Table 1
(see §
156.412(B)(3), or the required transition yard width for the district (an SES-
C shall be considered a M-1 use as it pertains to transition yards and
screening in 6.07, 6.10 and 6.12).
            4.   Landscaping required within buffer strips shall be done in
accordance with a certified landscape plan that shows a visual barrier for
which a predicted minimum height of seven feet within three years will be
achieved by the selected species and planting size and density during normal
growing conditions.
               a.   A minimum height of 15 feet is to be maintained over the
life of the project.
               b.   Height is measured from original grade.
            5.   Grass or ground cover shall be planted on all portions of the
required buffer areas not occupied by other landscaped material.
               a.   Only non-invasive species shall be used, and native species
are recommended.
               b.   All noxious weeds and plants shall be eradicated prior to
the weeds seeding or spreading.
            6.   All landscaping materials shall be installed and maintained
according to accepted nursery industry procedures.
               a.   The owner of the property shall be responsible for the
continued property maintenance of all landscaping materials and shall keep them
in a proper, neat, and orderly appearance free from refuse and debris at all
times.
            7.   Unhealthy and dead plants shall be replaced within one year of
being provided written notice from the Administrator of the violation.
               a.   The determination of whether a plant is unhealthy shall be
at the discretion of the Administrator or a recognized landscape professional.
            8.   The effectiveness of screening shall be maintained as the
plant materials mature.
            9.   A clear line of sight shall be maintained at all intersections
and point(s) of ingress/egress.
      (5)   Equipment type.
         (a)   An SES-C shall be constructed of commercially available
equipment and in conformance with §
156.411(B)(7).
            1.   Material safety data sheets and/or safety data sheets shall be
submitted for each model of solar panel to be used.
         (b)   Experimental or proto-type equipment still in testing which does
not fully comply with industry standards, may be approved by the BZA after
notice and hearing pursuant to the variance procedures of this Zoning
Ordinance.
         (c)   When solar storage batteries are included as part of the solar
energy collector system, these must be placed in a secure container or
enclosure meeting the requirements of the Indiana Building Code and IDEM
regulations when in use and when no longer used shall be disposed of in
accordance with all applicable laws and regulations.
         (d)   An SES-C shall conform to applicable industry standards, as well
as all local, state, and federal regulations.
            1.   An applicant shall submit certificate(s) of design compliance
that solar manufacturers have obtained from Underwriters Laboratories, Det
Norske Veritas, Germanlshcher Lloyed Solar Energie, or an equivalent third
party.
      (6)   Electrical components.
         (a)   Electrical components of an SES-C shall conform to applicable
local, state, and national safety codes for similar SES-Cs.
         (b)   Cables and lines:
            1.   All cables and lines on site within the fenced area shall
follow the current Indiana Electric Code (identified in 675 I.A.C. 17).
            2.   Transmission cables and lines outside the fenced site shall be
buried no less than 48 inches underground with a warning mesh located at 36
inches deep.
               a.   No plow type installations are permitted, only open
trenching or boring installations.
            3.   All underground cabling will be marked at road crossings,
creeks, riverbeds and property lines with a metal or fiberglass post at least
five feet in height.
            4.   For any installation method of cables and lines except as
provided herein, the applicant shall apply for a variance before the BZA,
pursuant to this Zoning Ordinance.
      (7)   Color, finish, and glare.
         (a)   In addition to any applicable FAA requirements that now exist
and are amended from time to time, the following shall also apply.
         (b)   The solar energy systems shall remain painted or finished in the
color or finish that was originally applied by the manufacturer provided the
exterior surface of any visible components are non-reflective, a neutral color
like white, grey or another non-obtrusive color. Finishes shall be matte or
non-reflective.
         (c)   To the extent reasonably possible, solar energy panels,
regardless of how these are mounted, shall be oriented and/or screened year-
round so that glare is directed away from adjacent properties, structures, and
roadways.
         (d)   The applicant has the burden of mitigating any glare produced so
as not to have significant adverse impact on adjacent uses. Mitigation is
accomplished by panel siting, panel orientation, landscaping and/or other
means.
      (8)   Materials handling, storage, and disposal.
         (a)   Solid wastes. All solid wastes whether generated from supplies,
equipment, parts, packaging, operation, maintenance, rehabilitation,
decommissioning, restoration of the facility, or otherwise, including, but not
limited to, old parts and equipment related to the maintenance, rehabilitation,
decommissioning, or restoration of any SES-C shall be removed from the site
promptly and disposed of in accordance with all local, state, and federal
regulations, laws and ordinances. The SES-C owner and SES-C operator shall have
the same responsibility for compliance hereof.
         (b)   Hazardous materials. All hazardous materials or hazardous waste
related to the construction, operation, maintenance, rehabilitation,
decommissioning, or restoration of any SES-C or otherwise generated by the
facility shall be handled, stored, transported, and disposed of In accordance
with all applicable local, state, and federal regulations and laws. The SES-
C owner and the SES-C operator shall have the same responsibility for
compliance hereof.
      (9)   Sewer and water.
         (a)   An SES-C facility shall comply with the septic system and well
regulations as currently required or as hereinafter amended, of the Wayne
County Health Department and the State of Indiana Department of Public Health.
      (10)   Utility interconnection.
         (a)   An SES-C, if interconnected to a utility system, shall meet the
requirements for interconnection and operate as prescribed by the
interconnection agreement with the electrical utility, asany applicable local,
state, and federal regulations now exist and as the same are from time to time
amended.
      (11)   Signage.
         (a)   Signs will comply with the Sign Standards provided in applicable
subchapters of the Zoning Ordinance.
         (b)   Development signs: An identification sign relating to an SES-
C may be located on each side of the fenced facility area, provided that there
shall be no more than one sign located on any side of the SES-C fenced facility
area, unless additional Identification signs are required to provide reasonable
notice to the general public.
         (c)   A sign shall be securely posted on each gate entry point clearly
displaying an emergency telephone number(s) and other contact Information.
         (d)   Each point of ingress/egress to an SES-C shall have posted In a
conspicuous location a 911 address road sign indicating the assigned address
for that location.
         (e)   Warning signs shall comply with applicable laws.
         (f)   No portion of the SES-C shall contain or be used to display
advertising. The manufacturer's name and equipment information or indication of
ownership shall be allowed on any equipment of the SES-C provided these comply
with the prevailing sign regulations.
         (g)   All signage required or permitted by this subchapter shall be
made of materials and constructed in a manner to be durable and long lasting.
The same shall be painted or made of material with a distinct, high contrast
background and be weatherproof paint or other weatherproof material to promote
safety and protect the public from hazards and potential hazards.
      (12)   Collection cables/lines.
         (a)   Collection cables, collection lines, and communication lines
installed as part of any SES-C shall not be considered essential services.
      (13)   Other appurtenances.
         (a)   No appurtenances other than those associated with the SES-
C construction, operations, maintenance, repair, replacement, rehabilitation,
decommissioning, restoration, removal, and permit requirements shall be
connected to the SES-C area except after notice of hearing and the hearing
before the BZA pursuant to the applicable section(s) of this Zoning Ordinance.
      (14)   Fencing.
         (a)   For security, all ground-mounted SES-C shall be completely
enclosed by a minimum six foot high fence with a locking gate accessed by a
keypad or lock box with key.
         (b)   Signage will be permitted as specified in §
156.412(B)(10).
         (c)   The fence should be located immediately adjacent to the
perimeter access road/lane and between any required landscaping in the buffer
and said access.
         (d)   A fence installed on the property line is the sole
responsibility of the SES-C owner/operator.
      (15)   Noise.
         (a)   No operating SES-C shall produce noise that exceeds any of the
following limitations except during construction. Adequate setbacks, barriers,
enclosures, use of quieter equipment, or other effective means of reducing
noise shall be used to comply with these limitations:
            1.   Fifty dBA, as measured at the property line of any adjacent
residentially zoned lot;
            2.   Forty-five dBA, as measured at any existing adjacent residence
between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
            3.   Sixty dBA, as measured at the property lines of the project
boundary, unless the owner of the affected property agrees to a higher noise
level, as follows:
               a.   The owner of an adjacent property that would otherwise be
protected by the 60 dBA noise limitations may voluntarily agree, by written
waiver, to a higher noise level.
                  (i)    Any such agreement must specifically state the noise
standard being modified, the extent of the modification, and be in the form of
a legally binding contract or easement between the landowner (including
assignees in interest) and the solar energy system developer, effective for the
life of the project.
               b.   This waiver must be recorded and cross-referenced with the
affected property (properties).
      (16)   Point(s) of ingress/egress and perimeter access road/lane.
         (a)   At a minimum:
            1.   A 20 foot wide point of ingress/egress must be provided from a
public street, legally established access drive, road, or other roadway into
the site.
               a.   Each point of ingress/egress shall be graveled or paved,
and must meet all local, state, and federal regulations.
               b.   A minimum 12 foot wide perimeter access road/lane shall be
provided in the buffer around the perimeter of the SES-C between the solar
arrays and required fence to allow access for maintenance vehicles and
emergency management vehicles, including fire apparatus and emergency vehicles.
                  (i)    The perimeter access road/lane may be a mown, well-
maintained grass lane.
      (17)   Lighting.
         (a)   Ground-mounted SES-C shall not be artificially lit except to the
extent required for safety or applicable local, state, or federal authority.
            1.   Such lighting shall be shielded and downcast so as not to
affect adjacent properties.
   (C)   Operation and maintenance for SES-C.
      (1)   Repair.
         (a)   The SES-C owner and/or operator shall repair, maintain, and
replace the SES-C and related solar equipment during the term of the permit in
a manner consistent with industry standards as needed to keep the SES-C in good
repair and operating condition.
      (2)   Operation and maintenance plan.
         (a)   The applicant shall submit a plan for the operation and
maintenance of the SES-C, which shall include measures for maintaining safe
access to the installation, storm water controls, general procedures for
operation and maintenance of the installation as well as maintenance of
vegetation within the buffer strip and underneath the ground-mounted solar
arrays.
      (3)   Physical modifications.
         (a)   Any physical modification to any SES-C or a part thereof which
materially alters the mechanical load, mechanical load path, or major
electrical components shall require recertification by all appropriate
regulatory authorities.
            1.   Like-kind replacements shall not require re-certification,
unless required by a regulatory authority.
         (b)   Prior to making any material physical modification, other than a
like-kind modification, the owner or operator of such SES-C shall confer with
the Wayne County Building Commissioner, Plan Administrator of the APC, Wayne
County Surveyor, Wayne County Highway Department Superintendent, and any other
appropriate regulatory authority as to whether the proposed physical
modification requires re-certification of such SES-C.
      (4)   Declaration of public nuisance/unsafe premises.
         (a)   An SES-C declared a public nuisance/unsafe premises by the
County Commissioners, acting as the Unsafe Hearing Authority, (UHA hereafter in
§
156.412(C)(4)) by being in breach of, or, out of compliance with Its SES-
C permit(s) may seek to be rehabilitated and declared safe by appropriate
repair(s) and other essential steps necessary to eliminate the breach(es) so as
to be in compliance with such SES-C permit(s).
         (b)   An SES-C declared a public nuisance/unsafe premises by the UHA
by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, fire hazard,
damage, abandonment, or as provided herein, Is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance/unsafe premises. A Rehabilitation Plan should be submitted to the UHA
within 60 days.
            1.   This plan shall provide procedures to rehabilitate the SES-
C in a time not to exceed 365 days except in the event of force majeure,
including but not limited to unavailability of components or parts, strikes,
and moratoriums which said majeure extends said time to 18 months total or a
reasonable extension agreed to by the UHA.
            2.   In the absence of an approved Rehabilitation Plan or meeting
the agreed to time schedule(s), or failure to execute the required repair(s) in
the time determined reasonable by the UHA, such SES-C shall be demolished and
removed in accordance with the Decommissioning-Restoration Plan and Agreement.
      (5)   Public nuisance/unsafe premises waiver.
         (a)   In the instance that an unavoidable act of God inhibits,
damages, or destroys part of, or most of the SES-C, the 365-day public
nuisance/unsafe premises removal timeline will be waived so long as the SES-
C owner and/or SES-C operator provides a Rehabilitation Plan to remedy the
damage and said plan is submitted to, and approved by, the County
Commissioners, acting as the Unsafe Hearing Authority, (UHA hereafter in §
156.412(C)(5)).
            1.   Said plan will outline the necessary protocol and time
schedule for returning the SES-C to energy production and must be submitted to
the UHA within 60 days of the date the damage was incurred, or a time
determined reasonable by the UHA.
      (6)   Contact information.
         (a)   The SES-C owner and/or operator shall maintain a phone number
and identify a person responsible for accepting calls of inquiries and
complaints from the public throughout the life of the project.
            1.   This number and the name of the responsible person shall be
provided to the Administrator.
            2.   The SES-C owner and/or operator shall make reasonable efforts
to respond to the public's inquiries and complaints.
   (D)   Application for SES-C.
      (1)   Contact information of SES-C applicant.
         (a)   The name(s), address(es), telephone number(s), and email address
(es) (if available) of the applicant(s), together with a description of the
applicant's business structure and overall role in the proposed project.
      (2)   Contact information of SES-C owner.
         (a)   The names(s), address(es), telephone number(s), and email
address(es) (if available) of the SES-C owner(s), together with a description
of the owner's business structure and overall role In the proposed SES-C, and
documentation of real estate ownership of any real property upon which any part
of the proposed SES-C is to be located.
            1.   The SES-C owner shall inform the Plan Administrator of the APC
of any change of SES-C ownership, in whole or in part, and shall furnish the
required information regarding such owner.
      (3)   Contact information of SES-C operator.
         (a)   The name(s), address(es), telephone number(s), and email address
(es) (if available) of the operator(s), as well as a description of the
operator's business structure and overall role in the proposed project.
            1.   The SES-C operator shall inform the Plan Administrator of the
APC of any change of the SES-C operator and furnish the required information
regarding such operator.
      (4)   Legal description.
         (a)   The legal description and the 911 emergency address of the real
property upon which the SES-C is to be located.
      (5)   SES-C description.
         (a)   The SES-C description and information including, but not limited
to, the following:
            1.   Type of solar technology (e.g., solar panels, solar shingles).
            2.   Solar panel mounting technique (e.g., ground-mount, roof-
mount).
            3.   Solar panel installation height.
            4.   Name plate generating capacity.
            5.   The means of interconnecting with the electrical grid.
            6.   The potential equipment manufacturer(s); including information
sheets and installation manuals.
            7.   Accessory structures and other appurtenances.
      (6)   Preliminary site plan.
         (a)   A site plan, drawn to scale, including distances pertaining to
all applicable setback and buffer requirements. All drawings shall be at a
scale of one inch equals 30 feet (1 inch = 30 feet). Any other scale must be
approved by the Plan Administrator of the APC. No individual sheet or drawing
shall exceed 24 inches by 36 inches (24 inches by 36 inches) without the prior
consent of said Plan Administrator.
         (b)   The preliminary site plan shall illustrate the following:
            1.   Property lines upon tract(s) subject to the application,
together with property lines and with the names of owners of record of each
adjacent tract(s).
            2.   Location and name/number of public roads surrounding,
abutting, and/or traversing the SES-C and any SES-C point(s) of ingress/egress.
            3.   Substations: location.
            4.   Location of electrical cabling outside of fenced areas.
            5.   Ancillary equipment.
            6.   Location and height of fencing, perimeter access roads/lanes,
berms and landscaping associated with any buffer zone.
            7.   Location and spacing of panels/arrays and key components.
            8.   Setback lines: Distances from the solar energy system to each
setback requirement defined In Table 1 in §
156.412(B)(3).
            9.   Any structure within one-quarter mile of the proposed SES-
C boundary.
            10.   The location of any airport within one mile of the proposed
SES-C boundary.
            11.   The location of any historic or heritage sites as recognized
by the Division of Historic Preservation and Archeology of the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources, within one mile of a proposed SES-C.
            12.   The location of any wetlands based upon a delineation plan
prepared in accordance with the applicable U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
requirements and guidelines, within one mile of a proposed SES-C.
            13.   All other information reasonably requested by the BZA, APC
and Plan Administrator of the APC.
      (7)   Topographic map.
         (a)   A United States Geological Survey (USGS) topographical map, or
map with similar data, of the property and the surrounding area, with contours
of not more than five-foot intervals.
      (8)   Landowner agreements.
         (a)   A memorandum of agreement for all agreements of any description
signed by participating landowners authorizing the placement of the identified
SES-C on landowner's property.
         (b)   Fully executed setback waiver agreements, if applicable, signed
by adjacent landowners.
         (c)   An executed copy of any other waiver agreement signed by
adjacent landowner(s).
         (d)   A copy of any recorded solar easements from adjacent landowners.
      (9)   Engineering certification.
         (a)   For an SES-C, the manufacturer's engineer or another qualified
registered professional engineer shall certify, as part of the building permit
application, that all structural aspects of the SES-C design are within
accepted professional standards, and the structure or substrate the solar
technology will be affixed to will tolerate the installed weight of said
technology (e.g., roof structure, soils).
      (10)   Proof of correspondence and cooperation with wildlife agencies.
         (a)   For the purposes of demonstrating compliance with required
permits, the applicant shall provide written documentation that the applicant
is in direct correspondence, cooperation and in compliance and shall remain in
compliance with all applicable regulations and requirements of the U.S. Fish
and Wildlife Service and the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      (11)   Disclaimer.
         (a)   Prior to the issuance of an improvement location permit (ILP),
SES-C applicants must acknowledge in writing that the issuing of said permit
shall not and does not create in the property owner, its, his, her or their
successors and assigns in title or, create in the property itself: (a) the
right to remain free of shadows and/or obstructions to solar energy caused by
development of adjacent or other property or the growth of any trees or
vegetation on such property; or (b) the right to prohibit the development on or
growth of any trees or vegetation on such property.
            1.   This disclaimer is subordinate to any solar easements entered
into with adjacent landowners and subject to the terms agreed to therein.
      (12)   Solar easement.
         (a)   Solar easement may be entered into between affected parties (see
§
156.412(F)(1)(e)) and must be submitted with the SES-C application.
      (13)   Additional required documents.
         (a)   Prior to the issuance of an improvement location permit (ILP)
and a building permit, and in addition to all other application requirements
and any other requirements for the applicant, owner and/or operator to be in
compliance with the Zoning Ordinance, the following shall be submitted to the
Plan Administrator of the APC:
            1.   Form, content and title of agreements. NOTE: The plans and
agreements set forth in divisions may be merged into one or more agreements.
               a.    Decommissioning- Restoration Plan and Agreement (see §
156.412(F)(1)(a)).
               b.    Drainage agreement (see §
156.412(F)(1)(b)).
               c.   Road use and maintenance agreement (see §
156.412(F)(1)(c)).
               d.    Erosion control plan (see §
156.412(F)(1)(d)).
               e.    Pre-construction requirements (see §
156.412(G)).
               f.    Construction requirements (see §
156.412(H)).
               g.   Any agreement title or document name/designation made by
the parties shall be sufficient provided such plans and agreements are in
compliance with the requirements of the Zoning Ordinance and all other
requirements of applicable local, state, and federal laws, rules, regulations,
and ordinances.
      (14)   Waivers.
         (a)   All waiver agreements shall be in writing and follow the
requirements specified in definitions. Copies of all waivers are required as
part of the SES-C application.
      (15)   Aggregated SES-C applications.
         (a)   Aggregated SES-Cs may be jointly submitted as a single
application and be reviewed under joint proceedings, including notices,
hearing, and reviews, and as appropriate, approvals.
         (b)   All permits shall be issued pursuant to §
156.412(E).
   (E)   Required permits for SES-C.
      (1)   Issuance of permits: All application requirements as set forth in §
156.412(D), together with all other applicable requirements of this subchapter
and the Zoning Ordinance, shall be completed and approved by all required
authorities (local, state, and federal) before an improvement location permit,
building permit, or electrical permit is issued.
         (a)   For an aggregated SES-C, improvement location permits, building
permits, and electrical permits shall be issued individually per parcel.
      (2)   An improvement location permit (ILP) is required for the following:
         (a)   An SES-C facility, accessory buildings and structures.
         (b)   Meteorological tower.
         (c)   Operational support meteorological tower.
         (d)   Application for and acceptance of an ILP is an agreement by the
applicant to be bound by the terms of this subchapter.
      (3)   A building permit is required for the following:
         (a)   An SES-C accessory building and/or structure.
      (4)   An electrical permit is required for an SES-C facility.
         1.   More than one permit may be required.
   (F)   Plans and agreements for SES-C.
      (1)   Plans and agreements for a single SES-C or in aggregate must be
approved by the County Commissioners and shall include all the following:
         (a)    Decommissioning/restoration plan and agreement.
            1.   Prior to receiving an improvement location permit and building
permit, under this subchapter, the applicant, owner, and operator shall submit
and shall enter into a Decommissioning-Restoration Plan and Agreement with the
county.
            2.    Commissioners outlining the anticipated means, costs, and
method of payment of all costs in carrying out such Decommissioning-Restoration
Plan and Agreement at the end of the SES-C life or the life of any part of an
SES-C, upon becoming an abandoned use, or being declared a public nuisance (see
§
156.412(C)(4) and (C)(5)).
            3.    Discontinuation and abandonment.
               a.   Owner operator shall give written notice of intent to
abandon use of an SES-C facility 60 days prior to the discontinuation of
electrical production to the County Commissioners and Advisory Plan Department.
               b.   An SES-C or portion of an SES-C shall be considered an
abandoned use after one year without energy production, unless a Rehabilitation
Plan developed by the SES-C owner and SES-C operator is submitted to and
approved by the County Commissioners outlining the necessary procedures and
time schedule for commencing or returning the SES-C to energy production (see §
156.412(C)(4) and (C)(5)).
               c.    Failure by the SES-C owner and/or operator to commence
energy production at such SES-C or return such SES-C to energy production
within the time schedule which has been approved by the County Commissioners,
said SES-C or portion of SES-C shall be considered an abandoned use and/or a
public nuisance (see §
156.412(C)(4) and (C)(5)).
               d.    Removal and restoration.
                  (i)    The SES-C owner and/or the SES-C operator is required
to remove all physical material pertaining to the SES-C above-ground level and
all improvements of said SES-C below-ground level to a depth of 36 inches for
an SES-C declared irreparably damaged, and/or an abandoned use and/or a public
nuisance.
                  (ii)    All materials shall be so removed, and the SES-C site
restored within 365 days of the discontinuation of energy production, or in
accordance with agreements developed under §
156.412(C)(4) and (G)(1)(b).
                  (iii)    An SES-C which is irreparably damaged, abandoned or
declared to be a public nuisance shall, within said time limit (365 days),
require the SES-C owner and/or SES-C operator to have completed restoration of
the SES-C site to as near as practicable to the original condition of the SES-
C site prior to the development of such SES-C.
                  (iv)    If any portion of the SES-C is found to be hazardous
in nature by state, or federal regulatory agency(s) or required to be recycled,
the SES-C owner and/or SES-C operator is required to remove said portion in a
manner as prescribed by law.
               e.    Identification and removal of hazardous materials.
                  (i)    During removal and restoration, the SES-C owner and/or
operator shall identify all hazardous materials and non-hazardous materials,
and indicate the appropriate handling, storage and transport during disposal
and/or diversion of both kinds of material.
                     A.   Hazardous materials are identified by and regulated
by state and federal regulatory agencies, such IDEM and the EPA.
               f.    Performance guarantee.
                  (i)    Prior to issuance of an ILP or building permit, the
applicant must provide the county with a performance guarantee in the form of a
bond, irrevocable letter of credit and agreement, or other financial security
acceptable to the County Commissioners in the amount of 125% of the estimated
decommission and restoration cost minus the salvageable value, or $50,000
whichever is greater. Estimates shall be determined by a licensed engineer.
                  (ii)    Unless otherwise agreed to by all parties, every five
years a new engineer's estimate of probable cost of decommissioning and
restoration shall be submitted for approval in the same manner as the initial
submission, and the bond, letter of credit, or other financial security
acceptable to the county shall be adjusted upward or downward as necessary. A
new estimate will be submitted to the Commissioners prior to the sale of any
portion of the SES-C and the performance guarantee adjusted appropriately and
made part of the sales contract.
                  (iii)    All expenses involved in such removal and
restoration shall be paid by the SES-C owner and SES-C operator, or removal and
restoration will be completed by Wayne County at the SES-C owner's expense and
SES-C operator's expense as specifically provided by the Decommissioning-
Restoration Plan and Agreement.
               g.    Written notices.
                  (i)    Prior to implementation of any procedures or remedy
for the resolution of any SES-C owner's and/or operator's failure to
decommission the SES-C pursuant to the Decommissioning-Restoration Plan and
Agreement, and/or Rehabilitation Plan and/or the Ordinance, the County
Commissioners shall first provide written notice to the owner and/or operator,
setting forth the alleged default(s).
                  (ii)    Such written notice shall provide the owner and/or
operator a reasonable time period not to exceed 60 days, except upon such
longer time to which all said parties agree, for good faith negotiations
between the SES-C owner and/or operator and the County Commissioners or its
duly appointed representative, to resolve the default(s).
                  (iii)    In the event the negotiations fail to resolve the
default issue(s), either party may pursue any and all remedies available by the
terms of the Zoning Ordinance and/or Decommissioning-Restoration Plan and
Agreement and/or Rehabilitation Plan.
               h.   Costs incurred by the county.
                  (i)    In the event, after written notice, the owner and/or
operator shall fail to enter into a rehabilitation agreement (§
156.412(C)(4)) or decommission the SES-C in accordance with the Zoning
Ordinance and the Decommissioning-Restoration Plan and Agreement, the owner
and/or operator shall pay all reasonable cost, including reasonable attorney
fees, incurred by the county to remove the SES-C. The county shall be entitled
to apply the salvage value of the SES-C to the costs of removal, subject to any
rights of the SES-C owner's lenders.
         (b)   Drainage agreement.
            1.   A drainage agreement approved by the Wayne County Drainage
Authority, or their designees must prescribe or reference provisions to address
field tile damages and repairs thereof for any field tile owned by Wayne
County.
            2.   Except as otherwise allowed by I.C. 36-7-4-1109, all damages
to waterways, drainage ditches, field tiles, or other drainage related
infrastructure caused by the construction, installation, or maintenance of an
SES-C must be completely repaired by the project owner or remedied with the
installation of new drainage infrastructure so as to not impede the natural
flow of water.
               a.   All repairs must be completed within a reasonable period of
time and:
                  (i)    to the satisfaction of the Wayne County Drainage
Board;
                  (ii)    As stated in an applicable lease or another agreement
with the landowner; and
                  (iii)    Subject to applicable local, state, and federal
drainage laws and regulations.
         (c)   Road use and maintenance agreement.
            1.   A road use and maintenance agreement shall be submitted for
approval and include the requirements of §
156.412(G)(1) and (I)(1).
               a.   Said plan shall be approved by the County Commissions and/
or the County Highway Department.
         (d)   Erosion control plan.
            1.   An erosion control plan developed In accordance with the
Natural Resources Conservation Services (NRCS) guidelines, and any storm water
quality management plan adopted by the applicable jurisdiction(s).
            2.   The area beneath a ground-mounted SES-C is considered pervious
cover, therefore, natural (pervious) ground covers are required beneath the
solar arrays.
         (e)   Solar easements.
            1.   Where a land development proposes an SES-C, solar easements
may be provided. Said easements and any subsequent amendments shall be in
writing and shall be subject to the conveyance and instrument recording
requirements prescribed in I.C. 32-23-2-5.
            2.   Any such easements shall be appurtenant; shall run with the
land benefitted and burdened; and shall be defined and limited by conditions
stated in the instrument of conveyance. Instruments creating solar easement
shall include but not be limited to:
               a.   A description of the dimensions of the easement including
vertical and horizontal angles measured in the degrees at which the solar
easement extends over the real property that is subject to the solar easement,
and a description of the real property to which the solar easement is
appurtenant;
               b.    Restrictions on the placement of vegetation, structures,
and other objects which may impair or obstruct the passage of sunlight through
the easement;
               c.    Enumerate any terms and conditions under which the
easement is granted and may be revised or terminated.
            3.   If necessary, an SES-towner and/or operator must obtain any
solar easements necessary to guarantee unobstructed solar access by separate
civil agreement(s) with adjacent property owner(s). Copies of such easements
shall be submitted as part of the application process with proof of appropriate
recording in the Wayne County Recorder Office.
   (G)   Pre-construction requirements for SES-C.
      (1)   Avoidance and mitigation of damages to public infrastructure.
         (a)   In addition to complying with the approved road use and
maintenance agreement, an applicant, owner, and/or operator proposing to use
any county road(s) for the purposes of transporting any component of an SES-C,
substation, and/or any other equipment for the construction, operation or
maintenance of an SES-C shall comply with the following pre-construction
requirements:
            1.   Identification of roads and services.
               a.   All roads and services, to the extent that all proposed
routes that will be used for transportation of construction materials,
construction of the SES-C, and/or maintenance of the SES-C shall be identified.
If the route includes a public road, such route shall be approved by the Wayne
County Highway Department Superintendent. To the extent possible state or
federal highways shall be utilized for the purposes of transporting any
component of an SES-C, substation and/or any other equipment for the
construction, operation, or maintenance of an SES-C.
            2.    Pre-construction survey.
               a.   The applicant, owner and/or operator shall conduct a pre-
construction baseline survey in coordination with, and acceptable to, the Wayne
County Highway Superintendent and such survey shall be a part of the road use
and maintenance agreement to determine existing road conditions for assessing
current needed improvements and potential future damage.
               b.   The survey shall include, but not be limited to,
photographs, and/or video, or a combination thereof, and a written agreement to
document the condition of the public facility as the same exists on the date of
the baseline survey.
               c.   This survey shall be the basis for determining the minimum
width of roads (not platted width) when repair or replacement is required in
the road use and maintenance agreement (see §
156.412(F)(1)(c)).
      (2)   Amendments and changes to the preliminary site plan.
         (a)   Any material change of location of the SES-C fenced boundary and
any material change in the location of SES-C facilities outside of the SES-
C fenced boundary shall be furnished to the Plan Administrator of the APC,
Building Commissioner, Highway Superintendent, County Surveyor, and any other
person(s) designated and authorized by the County Commissioners.
         (b)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the applicant, owner
and/or operator to obtain any variance required by such change and to comply
with any other requirement necessitated by such change.
            1.   Any variance required by this section shall be obtained prior
to construction or implementation of such change.
   (H)   Construction requirements for SES-C.
      (1)   During construction, the applicant shall demonstrate and document
to the satisfaction of the Building Commissioner, Highway Superintendent,
County Surveyor, Plan Administrator of the APC, and any other person(s)
designated and authorized by the County Commissioners, that the following
requirements are being met:
         (a)   Dust control.
            1.   All reasonable dust control measures required by the County
Commissioners during construction of the SES-C are being followed together with
any additional steps or adjustments for dust control which may from time to
time be required by the County Commissioners.
         (b)   Drainage.
            1.   Reasonable storm water best management practices as required
by the approved drainage plan/agreement.
         (c)   Noise.
            1.   Near a residence or public use parcel noise shall be kept to a
minimum during the hours of 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
   (I)   Post-construction requirements for SES-C.
      (1)   Post-construction, the applicant shall comply with the following
provisions:
         (a)   Road repairs.
            1.   Any road damage caused by the transport of any matter or
material utilized in any way regarding the SES-C, in the construction of the
SES-C, the installation of the same, and/or the removal and decommissioning of
the same, shall be repaired to the satisfaction of the Wayne County Highway
Department Superintendent and the Wayne County Engineer.
            2.   The Superintendent or Engineer may choose to require either
remediation of road(s) upon completion of the SES-C or said Superintendent is
authorized to collect fees for oversized load permits.
            3.   A surety bond or letter of credit in an amount to be
determined by a professional highway engineer selected by the Wayne County
Commissioners may be required by the County to ensure that future repairs are
completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent and/or Engineer.
               a.   The cost of such bond or letter of credit shall be paid by
the SES-C owner and said bond shall remain in full force and affect until the
decommissioning and restoration is fully completed as prescribed by this Zoning
Ordinance and the Decommissioning-Restoration Plan and Agreement.
         (b)   As-built plans requirement.
            1.   Where upon completion of all development, the exact
measurements of the location of utilities, structures, and components erected
during the development are necessary for public record and shall, therefore, be
recorded.
            2.   The applicant, owner, and/or operator shall submit a copy of
the final as-built survey to the Plan Administrator of the APC with the
locations of the SES-C facilities shown thereon.
            3.   Said Plan Administrator, after being satisfied that the
locations of the SES-C facilities are substantially similar to the locations on
the originally approved final plan(s) or as the same were from time to time
amended, shall approve, date, and sign said as-built survey for the SES-C.
            4.   Once the Plan Administrator approves the as-built survey, the
survey will then be reviewed by the Wayne County Drainage Board for its
approval.
            5.   The applicant, owner, and/or operator shall then record and
provide to the Plan Administrator a copy of said recorded plans.
         (c)   Change in ownership.
            1.   It is the duty and responsibility of the SES-C applicant, SES-
C owner, and/or SES-C operator and any subsequent SES-C owner and SES-
C operator, in addition to the notice requirements of any SES-C plan(s) and
SES-C agreement(s) to notify by written notice the Wayne County Commissioners
and the Plan Administrator of the APC of any change in the ownership of the
SES-C or any part of the ownership thereof to and through the time that the
final Decommissioning Restoration Plan and Agreement are concluded and all
applicable acceptances, releases and performance standards of any description
have been met and concluded and accepted by the appropriate local, state,
federal or private authority, department, agency, and person(s) and all
financial payments or other financial obligations are fully satisfied and all
appropriate parties are in receipt thereof.
            2.   The written notice shall be sent by certified mail with
certified funds for any required recording fees and any other applicable fee(s)
to:
               a.   Wayne County Board of County Commissioners, 401 E. Main
Street, Richmond, IN 47374,and
               b.   Plan Administrator of the Advisory Plan Commission of Wayne
County, 401 E. Main Street, Richmond, IN 47374, or
               c.    Personally delivered to said County Commissioners and Plan
Administrator.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.413 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADJACENT. Lying near, close; contiguous; adjoining; neighboring.
   ADJOINING. Being In contact at some point or line; contiguous; bordering.
   BATTERY BACK-UP. A battery system that stores electrical energy from a solar
PV system, making the electricity available for future use. A battery back-up
system is common in off-grid systems and hybrid systems.
   BUILDING-INTEGRATED PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM. A solar energy system that is an
integral part of a principal or accessory building rather than a separate
mechanical device. This type of system replaces or substitutes for an
architectural or structural component of the building. A building-integrated
system includes, but is not limited to, a photovoltaic or hot water solar
energy system that is contained within roofing materials, windows, skylights,
and awnings.
   BUFFER. The required space between the solar energy equipment and structures
and a property line or right-of-way on the SES-C site.
   CONCENTRATED SOLAR THERMAL POWER SYSTEM. A solar energy system that uses
lenses or mirrors, and often tracking systems, to focus or reflect a large area
of sunlight into a small area. The concentrated energy is absorbed by a
transfer fluid or gas and used as a heat source for either a conventional power
plant or a power conversion unit.
   GLARE, SOLAR GLARE. The potential for solar panels to reflect sunlight, with
intensity sufficient to cause annoyance, discomfort, or loss in visual
performance and visibility.
   GROUND-MOUNT SYSTEM. A solar energy system that is directly installed on
specialized solar racking systems, which are attached to an anchor in the
ground and wired to connect to an adjacent home, building or utility. A ground-
mount system may be applicable when insufficient space, structural and shading
issues, or other restrictions prohibit a rooftop solar system.
   HYBRID SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM (AKA, GRID-TIED PV WITH BATTERY BACK-UP). A
solar photovoltaic electricity generation system designed to serve the
electricity needs of the building to which it is connected, thus offsetting a
dwelling or business's electricity usage, while also utilizing a battery back-
up in the event of a power outage. This is the only system that provides the
ability to have power when the utility grid is down.
   I.A.C. Indiana Administrative Code.
   INDIANA ELECTRIC CODE. Identified in 675 I.A.C. 17.
   INDIANA BUILDING CODE. Identified in 675 I.A.C. 13.
   INVERTER. A device that converts the direct current (DC) electricity
produced by a solar photovoltaic system into usable alternating current (AC).
   LARGE-SCALE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A commercial solar energy system that
converts sunlight into electricity for the primary purpose of wholesale sales
of generated electricity. A large-scale solar energy system will have a project
size of not less than 40 acres and is the principal land use for the parcel(s)
on which it is located. It can include collection and feeder lines,
substations, ancillary buildings, solar monitoring stations and accessory
equipment or structures thereto, that capture and convert solar energy into
electrical energy, primarily for use in locations other than where it is
generated.
   OFF-GRID SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM WITH BATTERY BACK-UP. A solar
photovoltaic electricity system designed to operate independently from the
local utility grid and provide electricity for noncommercial uses. This system
typically requires a battery bank to store the solar-generated electricity for
use during nighttime or cloudy weather.
   PASSIVE SOLAR. Techniques, design, and materials designed to take advantage
of the sun's position throughout the year (and the local climate) to heat,
cool, and light a building with the sun.
   PASSIVE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A structure specifically designed to retain
heat that is derived from solar energy.
   PHOTOVOLTAIC (PV) SYSTEM. A solar energy system that produces electricity
using semiconductor devices, called photovoltaic cells, which generate
electricity when exposed to sunlight. A PV system may be roof-mounted, ground-
mounted, or pole-mounted.
   PLAN ADMINISTRATOR. The departmental head of the Wayne County Planning and
Zoning Office.
   POLLINATOR-FRIENDLY SOLAR ENERGY. A community or large-scale solar energy
system that meets the requirements of the 2020 Indiana Solar Site Pollinator
Habitat Planning Scorecard, developed by Purdue University as a solar-
pollinator standard designed for Midwestern ecosystems, soils, and habitat.
   RACKING. A system of installation that securely attaches and anchors a solar
energy system to structural sections of a roof-mounted or pole-mounted system.
   ROOF-MOUNT SYSTEM (AKA ROOFTOP MOUNTED, BUILDING MOUNTED). A solar energy
system consisting of solar panels installed directly on the roof of a home,
commercial building, and/or an accessory structure. Solar panels are mounted
and secured using racking systems. Roof- mount systems can be mounted flush
with the roof or tilted toward the sun at an angle.
   SES-C. See SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, COMMERCIAL (SES-C).
   SES-C OPERATOR. The authorized person or entity responsible for the
operation of the SES-C facility. The operator may or may not also be the SES-
C owner.
   SES-C OWNER. The person or entity who has legal ownership of the SES-
C facility.
   SES-NC. See SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, NON-COMMERCIAL (SES-NC).
   SOLAR ACCESS. The ability of one property to continue to receive sunlight
across property lines without obstruction from an adjacent property's
buildings, foliage, or other impairment.
   SOLAR ARRAY. Multiple solar panels combined to create one system.
   SOLAR CARPORT. A solar energy system of any size that is installed on a
carport structure that is accessory to a parking area, and which may Include
electric vehicle supply equipment or energy storage facilities.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR. A solar PV cell, panel, or array, or solar thermal
collector device that relies upon solar radiation as an energy source for the
generation of electricity or transfer of stored heat.
   SOLAR EASEMENT. An easement recorded pursuant to I.C. 32-23-4, obtained to
ensure exposure of a solar energy device or a passive solar energy system to
the direct rays of the sun.
   SOLAR ENERGY. Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected in
the form of heat or light by a solar collector.
   SOLAR ENERGY DEVICE. An instrument or the equipment designed to receive the
direct rays of the sun and convert the rays into heat, electricity, or another
form of energy to provide heating, cooling, or electrical power.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES). The components and subsystems required to convert
solar energy into electric or thermal energy suitable for use. The area of the
system includes all the land inside the perimeter of the system, which extends
to any fencing, buffer, and landscaping. The term applies to, but is not
limited to, a solar photovoltaic (PV) system, solar thermal system, and solar
hot water system. A regulated system fits into one of two system types:
Commercial (SES-C) or Noncommercial (SES-NC).
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, COMMERCIAL (SES-C). A utility-scale commercial facility
that converts sunlight into electricity with the primary purpose of wholesale
or retail sales of generated electricity (see LARGE-SCALE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM).
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, NONCOMMERCIAL (SES-NC). A photovoltaic, solar thermal,
or solar hot water device that is accessory to, and incorporated into the
development of an authorized use of the property, and which is designed for the
purpose of reducing or meeting on-site energy needs.
   SOLAR HOT WATER SYSTEM. See SOLAR THERMAL SYSTEM.
   SOLAR PANEL. A device for the direct conversion of sunlight into useable
solar energy (including electricity or heat).
   SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC (SOLAR PV) SYSTEM. A solar energy system consisting of
photovoltaic cells, made with semiconducting materials, which produce
electricity when exposed to sunlight.
   SOLAR THERMAL SYSTEM (AKA, SOLAR HOT WATER OR SOLAR HEATING SYSTEM). A solar
energy system that directly heats water or other liquid using sunlight. The
heated liquid is used for such purposes as space heating and cooling, domestic
hot water, and heating pool water.
   WALL-MOUNTED SYSTEM. A solar energy system consisting of solar panels
installed directly on the exterior wall(s) of a home, commercial building, and/
or an accessory structure. Wall-mounted solar panels are typically installed as
modules on a south-facing wall.
   VISUAL BARRIER. A density of landscaping equal to Thuja Green Giant
Arborvitae spaced four feet apart which initial planting size and density is
expected to attain a height of seven feet in three years under normal growing
conditions. A minimum height of 15 feet is to be maintained thereafter. The
intent is to completely exclude visual contact with solar panels and equipment.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.414 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS: ZONING DISTRICTS.
Zoning District SES-C1, 2 SES-NC
Zoning District SES-C1, 2 SES-NC
A-1             SE3       P
A-2             SE3       P
R-S, R-1,       X         P
R-2, R-3
C-1             SE3       P
C-2             SE3       P
C-3             SE3       P
M-1             SE3       P
M-2             SE3       P
M-3             SE3       P
KEY:
P: permitted use
SE: special exception use
X: not permitted, no variance allowed
NOTES:
1   An SES-C is not permitted on a parcel of less than 40 acres.
2   An SES-C is not permitted in residential subdivisions, campgrounds,
recreational area, wildlife preserves, and conservation areas.
3   The provisions of this subchapter, including but not limited to, those set
out in § 156.412(G), are subject to limitation, waiver, modification, or
variance pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-918.2 and I.C. 36-7-4-
918.5, as part of the BZA's exercise of its authority to impose reasonable
conditions on the granting of special exceptions, as well as on the granting
of variances from the development standards, and after compliance with the
applicable provisions of the Wayne County Zoning Ordinance and the Ordinance
for Flood Hazard Areas for Wayne County, Indiana.
 
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 4-12-2023)
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE
HOME PARKS, MOTEL AND
MOTOR HOTELS
§ 156.415 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The regulations prescribed by the State Board of Health or other authority
having jurisdiction and as may be otherwise required by law, shall be complied
with, in addition to the following regulations.
   (A)   Mobile home parks shall comply with all area and yard requirements
prescribed herein; motels shall also comply with all area and yard requirements
prescribed for such uses in the district in which located.
   (B)   The buildings, cabins and mobile homes in any tourist camp, mobile
home park or motel, together with any non-accessory buildings already on the
lot, shall not occupy in the aggregate more than 25% of the area of the lot.
   (C)   All areas used for automobile access and parking shall comply with the
applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   No vehicular entrance to or exit from any mobile home park or motel,
wherever such may be located, shall be within 200 feet along streets from any
school, public playground, church, hospital, library or institution for
dependents or for children, except where such property is in another block or
another street which the premises in question do not abut.
   (E)   (1)   All areas not used for access, parking, circulation, buildings
and service shall be completely and permanently landscaped and the entire site
maintained in good condition.
      (2)   A landscaped strip of land not less than ten feet in width shall be
established and maintained within the mobile home park along its exterior
boundaries.
      (3)   Such strip of land shall be planted with coniferous or evergreen
trees or a privacy-type fence, not less than six feet in height and properly
maintained shall be constructed.
   (F)   (1)   Tie downs: sufficient anchorage to resist flotation, collapse or
lateral movement of any mobile home.
      (2)   At a minimum, such anchorage shall consist of over-the-top ties be
provided at each of the four corners of the mobile home, with two additional
ties per side at intermediate locations, with mobile homes less than 50 feet
long requiring only one additional tie per side; frame ties be provided at each
corner of the home with five additional ties per side at intermediate points
and mobile homes less than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per
side; all components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a force of
4,800 pounds; and any additions to the mobile home be similarly anchored.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.416 ENLARGEMENT.
   No enlargements or extensions to any motel, mobile home park or a tourist
camp shall be permitted unless the existing one is made to conform
substantially with all the requirements for new construction for such an
establishment.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.417 MOBILE HOMES RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The placement of manufactured or mobile homes outside of manufactured
home or mobile home parks is as follows.
      (1)   Manufactured Home Type I is permitted in all zone districts that
permit a residence.
      (2)   Manufactured Home Type II and Type III and mobile homes are
permitted only by special exception as outlined in §§
156.505 through
156.509 of this chapter.
      (3)   The parking of an unoccupied manufactured or mobile home in an
accessory private garage, or in a rear yard, in any district, shall be
permitted; providing, no living quarters are maintained or any business
conducted in such unit while so parked or stored; further providing that, a
maximum of 90 days will be allowed for outside storage of such manufactures or
mobile home.
   (B)   Emergency or temporary stopping or parking of a mobile home shall be
permitted on any street, alley or highway for not longer than four hours,
subject to any other and further prohibitions, regulations or limitations
imposed by the traffic and parking regulations or laws for such street, alley
or highway.
   (C)   In any mobile home park, the wheels of any mobile home shall not be
removed, except for repairs, nor shall any mobile home be otherwise permanently
fixed to the ground in a manner that would prevent its removal.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.418 MOBILE HOME PARKS; SUBMISSION OF PLANS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An application for the establishment of a mobile home park in a
district where a mobile home park is permitted, shall be filed with the Zoning
Inspector and must be accompanied by a scale drawing certified by a registered
engineer or surveyor. Such drawing shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Accurate dimensions of the proposed mobile home park;
      (2)   All roads and approaches and the method of ingress and egress;
      (3)   The complete electric service installation, wire service outlets
and lighting facilities;
      (4)   The complete location of any natural gas facilities to serve the
mobile home park;
      (5)   A complete layout of unit parking spaces and the number of square
feet therein, together with the dimensions thereof; and
      (6)   The location of electrical power of gas distribution systems, water
mains or wells for water supply outlets for domestic water users; location of
sanitary facilities, washrooms, garbage disposal units, incinerators, sanitary
sewers or septic tanks, sewer drain lines, leeching beds and other buildings or
structure contemplated to be used by such applicant in connection with said
mobile home park.
   (B)   Mobile home parks shall be designed and maintained in accordance with
the following requirements.
      (1)   The minimum park area shall be two acres.
      (2)   The minimum area of a mobile home unit space within the mobile home
park shall be 3,000 square feet.
      (3)   The minimum width of a mobile home unit space within the mobile
home park shall be 40 feet.
      (4)   Each mobile home park shall abut upon a public street and each
mobile home unit space shall have direct access to a private, hard surface
drive.
      (5)   The minimum distance for each mobile home from the exterior
property lines shall not be less than 50 feet.
      (6)   The minimum distance between neighboring mobile homes shall be not
less than 20 feet.
      (7)   Each mobile home unit space shall be equipped with concrete slab of
sufficient size to support the wheels and the front parking jack. Such slabs
shall have a minimum thickness of four inches.
      (8)   Each mobile home space shall be equipped with one electric outlet.
A sanitary system and water system shall be installed in accordance with
applicable county and state specifications, and each mobile home unit space
shall be served by such sewer and water systems.
      (9)   The minimum roadway width of interior one-way streets with parking
permitted on one side shall be 20 feet. The minimum roadway width of two-way
streets with parking permitted on one side shall be 26 feet. The minimum width
of two-way street without parking permitted shall be 20 feet. Such streets
shall be paved according to the county’s specifications for residential
streets, maintained in good condition and lighted at night.
      (10)   There shall be provided within each mobile home park an adequate
site or sites for recreation, for the exclusive use of the park occupants. Such
recreation site or sites shall have a minimum area in the aggregate of 100
square feet for each mobile home unit space. The recreation sites shall be
appropriate design and provided with appropriate equipment.
      (11)   No mobile home shall remain in a mobile home park for a period
exceeding five days without connection to the sanitary sewer system and water
system of the park.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.419 PROCEDURE FOR ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In addition to the foregoing, the Board of Zoning Appeals may impose
such other conditions, requirements or limitations concerning the design,
development and operation of such mobile home parks as it may deem necessary
for the protection of adjacent properties and the public interest.
   (B)   The terms MANUFACTURED HOME and/or MOBILE HOME, as defined and used in
this chapter, have the same connotation.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
HOME OCCUPATION
§ 156.420 LEVEL 1 HOME OCCUPATION.
   (A)   Where permitted. Residential use properties within the Agricultural,
Residential, Commercial, and Industrial districts.
   (B)   Definition. A Level 1 home occupation is a skilled service offered to
clients within a dwelling, and which meets all the following conditions:
      (1)   The service is provided by only one resident of the dwelling.
      (2)   The practitioner is limited to no more than one paid assistant.
      (3)   The home occupation service is limited to those listed in this
section.
      (4)   The home occupation is clearly secondary to the residential use of
the property.
      (5)   The home occupation does not change the residential character of
the property or the zone district's character or function.
      (6)   The home occupation must meet the requirements of the development
standards of this section and the zone district regulations.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   A Level 1 home occupation is limited to no more than 25% of the
floor area of the dwelling.
      (2)   No retail or wholesale sales are permitted.
         (a)   Exception: The retail sale of items commonly sold by a
chiropractor, photographer, beautician, or barber is permitted.
      (3)   Exterior signage is limited to a single name plate affixed to the
dwelling.
         (a)   Signage is limited to no more than two square feet in area
(e.g., 16 inches by 18 inches, 12 inches by 24 inches).
   (D)   List of Level 1 home occupations.
      (1)   A Level 1 home occupation includes:
         (a)   Medical practitioner (i.e., physician, surgeon, dentist,
chiropractor);
         (b)   Mental health practitioner (i.e., psychiatrist, psychologist);
         (c)   Family/marriage counselor;
         (d)   Licensed massage therapist;
         (e)   Lawyer;
         (f)   Photographer;
         (g)   Real estate professional (i.e., agent, broker, appraiser);
         (h)   Insurance agent;
         (i)   Financial advisor/tax consultant;
         (j)   Tax preparer;
         (k)   Tailor;
         (l)   Beautician or barber;
         (m)   Instructor/tutor in the liberal arts and/or performing arts
(limited to a single student at a time); and
         (n)   Other skilled or professional occupation.
      (2)   The following occupations are not Level 1 home occupations:
         (a)   Group instruction of the liberal arts and/or performing arts;
         (b)   Tea room;
         (c)   Tourist home or bed-and-breakfast;
         (d)   Real estate office (more than one agent, broker, or appraiser);
         (e)   Convalescent home;
         (f)   Mortuary establishment;
         (g)   Store, trade, or business of any kind not herein excepted.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 165.421 LEVEL 2 HOME OCCUPATION.
   (A)   Where permitted. Residential use properties within the A-1, A-2, C-1,
and C-2 zone districts, except:
      (1)   Within a platted subdivision with two or more lots; or
      (2)   Where restrictive covenants prohibit such use.
   (B)   Definition. A Level 2 home occupation is a service trade in which a
residential use property is used, in part, as a base of operation for a
business, and which meets all the following conditions:
      (1)   The home occupation is operated by residents of the dwelling only.
      (2)   The home occupation provides its services off-site and not at the
residence.
      (3)   The home occupation service is limited to those listed in this
section.
      (4)   The home occupation is clearly secondary to the residential use of
the property.
      (5)   The home occupation does not change the residential character of
the property or the zone district's character or function.
      (6)   The home occupation must meet the requirements of the development
standards of this section.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Level 2 home occupation operations must meet:
         (a)   For zone districts A-1 and A-2, the minimum lot area, width, and
yard requirements for other permitted uses.
         (b)   For Zone District C-1, the minimum lot area, frontage, and yard
regulations for residential uses.
         (c)   For Zone District C-2, the minimum lot area, frontage, and yard
requirements for residential uses.
      (2)   Level 2 home occupation operations are limited to:
         (a)   No more than 25% of the dwelling; and/or
         (b)   An attached garage.
      (3)   A maximum 2,400 square foot, permitted, detached accessory
building. Outside storage of any items related to the operation is not
permitted, except for road-legal vehicles and hauling trailers used in the
operation.
      (4)   Non-resident employees are not permitted to work on the property.
         (a)   Off-site, non-resident employees are permitted to pick-up and
drop off items for the Level 2 home occupation operation.
      (5)   Retail or wholesale sales are not permitted.
      (6)   Public access is not permitted.
      (7)   Signage is not permitted.
   (D)   List of Level 2 home occupations. A Level 2 home occupation includes:
      (1)   Construction trade contractors;
         (a)   Building and carpentry;
         (b)   Cement or concrete;
         (c)   Masonry (i.e., brick, block, stone);
         (d)   Roofing;
         (e)   Siding and guttering;
         (f)   Painting;
         (g)   Electrical;
         (h)   Plumbing;
         (i)   HVAC;
         (j)   Refrigeration.
      (2)   Lawn maintenance provider;
      (3)   Exterminator and pest control;
      (4)   Satellite dish installer; and
      (5)   Other occupations that provide services off-site.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.422 LEVEL 3 HOME OCCUPATION.
   (A)   Where permitted. Residential use properties within the A-1, A-2, C-1,
and C-2 zone districts, except:
      (1)   Within a platted subdivision with two or more lots; or
      (2)   Where restrictive covenants prohibit such use.
   (B)   Definition. A Level 3 home occupation is a service trade in which a
dwelling and/or accessory structure is used as the only place of operation for
the business, and which meets all the following conditions:
      (1)   The home occupation is operated by residents of the dwelling only.
      (2)   The home occupation provides its services on-site to customers who
bring items to the business.
      (3)   The home occupation service is limited to those listed in this
section.
      (4)   The home occupation is clearly secondary to the residential use of
the property.
      (5)   The home occupation does not change the residential character of
the property or the zone district's character or function.
      (6)   The home occupation must meet the requirements of the development
standards of this section.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Level 3 home occupation operations must meet:
         (a)   For Zone Districts A-1 and A-2, the minimum lot area, width, and
yard requirements for other permitted uses.
         (b)   For Zone District C-1, the minimum lot area, frontage, and yard
regulations for residential uses.
         (c)   For Zone District C-2, the minimum lot area, frontage, and yard
requirements for residential uses.
      (2)   Level 3 home occupation operations are limited to:
         (a)   No more than 25% of the dwelling;
         (b)   An attached garage; and/or
         (c)   A maximum 2,400 square foot, permitted, detached accessory
building.
      (3)   Outside storage of any items related to the operation is not
permitted, except for road-legal vehicles and hauling trailers used in the
business.
      (4)   Limited public access.
      (5)   Retail or wholesale sales are not permitted.
      (6)   A single, double-sided, non-illuminated, sign is permitted.
         (a)   The maximum height of the sign is four feet.
         (b)   The maximum total area of the sign is three square feet (e.g.,
18 inches by 24 inches, 12 inches by 36 inches), exclusive of border, trim,
base, support, etc.
         (c)   A minimum 30-foot setback from the centerline of any street is
required.
         (d)   The sign must not be in a designated right-of-way.
         (e)   The sign must not be located within 25 feet of the side lot line
of any adjoining lot in any R-District.
   (D)   List of Level 3 home occupations.
      (1)   A Level 3 home occupation includes:
         (a)   Metal sharpening (sharpening of scissors, knives, axes, saw
blades, lawnmower blades, etc.).
         (b)   Soldering, welding, metal working and repair of agricultural
related items.
         (c)   Furniture repair and upholstery.
         (d)   Shoe and leather repair.
         (e)   Computer and electronic device repair and customization.
         (f)   Appliance repair.
         (g)   Bicycle repair.
      (2)   The following occupations are not Level 3 home occupations:
         (a)   Metal manufacturing.
         (b)   The repair or manufacturing of vehicles, including upholstery.
         (c)   The manufacturing of furniture, including custom furniture
making.
         (d)   Custom woodworking.
         (e)   Shoe or boot making or leather goods production.
         (f)   Computer or electronic device manufacturing.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 156.430 GENERALLY.
   The provisions contained herein shall constitute the minimum acceptable
standards for the control of outdoor advertising, signs, displays and devices
where permitted.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.431 ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   Permitted locations. Areas where non- electronic/digital advertising
signs are permitted:
      (1)   In A-1 Agriculture Zone;
      (2)   In C-2 Community Business, C-3 General Business, M-1 Light
Industrial and M-2 General Industrial Zoned Areas; and
      (3)   In C-1 Neighborhood Business District as a special exception in
accordance with the provisions of §§
156.505 through
156.509 of this chapter.
   (B)   Areas where advertising sign, including electronic/digital signs, are
permitted:
      (1)   In C-2 Community Business, C-3 General Business, M-1 Light
Industrial, M-2 General Industrial, and M-3 Rural Industrial Zoned Areas.
      (2)   In C-1 Neighborhood Business District as a special exception in
accordance with the provisions of §§
156.505 through
156.509.
   (C)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   In A-1 Agriculture Zone District adjacent to the interstate and
federal aid primary system: 660 feet from right-of-way;
      (2)   In A-1 Agriculture Zone District adjacent to other than interstate
and federal aid primary system: 50 feet from the right-of-way;
      (3)   In A-1 Agriculture Zone District: all sign structures shall be
located at least 20 feet from adjoining property lines; and
      (4)   In Commercial and Industrial Zone Districts: the minimum setback
from established right-of-way lines and adjoining property lines shall be as
far as the requirements for a principal building in the district where located.
   (D)   Space of signs.
      (1)   No advertising sign structure shall be permitted within 300 feet of
any building used as a residence or any resident district.
      (2)   No advertising sign or structure shall be within 500 feet of any of
the following: public park entrance, public or parochial school, library,
church, any museum or historical monument, any safety rest or recreation area,
any sanitary or other facility for the accommodation of the motorist, publicly
owned, controlled and maintained.
      (3)   On the interstate and limited access highway.
         (a)   No sign structure shall be erected within 500 feet of another
sign structure on the same side of the highway.
         (b)   No sign structure may be located adjacent to or within 500 feet
of an interchange, intersection at grade or rest area, said 500 feet to be
measured along the interstate or limited access highway from the beginning or
ending of pavement widening at the exit from or entrance to the main traveled
way.
      (4)   On other routes of the federal aid primary system, no sign
structure shall be erected within 300 feet of another sign structure on same
side of the highway.
      (5)   Official and on premises signs shall not be counted, nor shall
measurements be made from them for purposes of determining compliance with
spacing requirements.
      (6)   The minimum distance between signs shall be measured along the
nearest edge of the pavement between points directly opposite the signs along
each side of the highway.
   (E)   Size of signs.
      (1)   In A-1 Agriculture Zone District, if the sign structure is beyond
660 feet of the right-of-way of interstate and federal aid primary system, the
maximum area for any one advertising sign shall be 2,000 square feet exclusive
of any border, trim, base, supports and the like. The height shall not exceed
30 feet and the length shall not exceed 80 feet.
      (2)   The maximum area for any one advertising sign in other areas
adjacent to interstate and federal aid primary systems where permitted, shall
be 1,000 square feet exclusive of any border, trim, base, support and the like.
The maximum height shall be 25 feet and the maximum length shall be 60 feet.
      (3)   The maximum size of advertising signs where permitted adjacent to
highways other than the interstate and federal aid primary systems shall not
exceed 600 square feet exclusive of any border, trim, base, support and the
like. The sign shall not exceed 25 feet in height and 50 feet in length.
      (4)   The sign structure may contain one or two advertisements per
facing, not to exceed the maximum area.
      (5)   Double faced structures will be permitted with the maximum area
being allowed for each facing.
   (F)   Lighting.
      (1)   Signs which contain, include or are illuminated by any flashing,
intermittent or moving light are prohibited, except those giving public service
information such as time, date, temperature, weather or similar information.
      (2)   Signs which are not effectively shielded to prevent beams or rays
of light from being directed at any portion of the traveled ways, and which are
of such intensity or brilliance as to cause glare or to impair the vision of
the driver of any motor vehicle, or which otherwise interfere with any driver’s
operation of a motor vehicle, are prohibited.
      (3)   No sign shall be so illuminated as to obscure or interfere with the
effectiveness of an official traffic sign, device or signal.
      (4)   All other state laws relating to lighting of signs presently
applicable to highways shall be met.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.432 SIGNS; EXTERIOR ON-PREMISES.
   Exterior on-premises signs (hereafter "signs") are used for businesses,
institutional uses (e.g., church, parochial school or charitable organization)
and community uses (e.g., public library, public school, hospital, community
center, public park, sports facility). Exterior electronic/digital on-premises
signs are permitted in Commercial and Industrial districts and for
institutional and community uses.
   (A)   Agricultural and Residential Districts. Where permitted in the
Agricultural and Residential Districts, signs shall not exceed in the aggregate
50 square feet, unless regulated by special exception, variance from the
development standards and/or a variance of use.
   (B)   Commercial and Industrial Districts. Where permitted in the Commercial
and Industrial Districts, signs shall not exceed in the aggregate three square
feet of area for each linear foot of lot frontage.
   (C)   Location.
      (1)   Signs, where permitted, shall be integral with or attached to the
principal building and shall not project more than two feet from the front
thereof unless attached to a marquee or sidewalk canopy, nor more than three
feet above the parapet wall or roof line except as provided in division (D).
      (2)   (a)   Freestanding signs, where permitted, shall be set back a
minimum of 30 feet from the centerline of any street and outside of a
designated right-of-way.
         (b)   They shall not be located within less than 25 feet of the side
of any adjacent lot in any R-District and shall not project above a horizontal
plane 20 feet above the average level of the ground at the front lot line;
except as provided in division (D).
   (D)   For any motor vehicle service station, motel, restaurant, or planned
commercial development where these are permitted, an exterior business sign
displaying only the identifying name or symbol of such use or the planned
commercial development as a whole may be supported on a freestanding structure
located in front of such use or development but such sign shall not project
over the street line and shall not be located within 25 feet of the side lot
line of any adjoining lot in any R-District. Such freestanding or pedestal
signs shall not exceed 125 feet in height and 300 square feet in area.
   (E)   On premise signs means those signs advertising an activity conducted
or maintained on the property on which they are located.
   (F)   Lighting.
      (1)   Signs are prohibited from utilizing flashing, pulsing, and swirling
lights as part of the sign or its illumination. Electronic/digital signs are
permitted to display messages that have motion or change with regularity or
intermittently.
      (2)   Signs:
         (a)   Which are not effectively shielded to prevent beams or rays of
light from being directed at any portion of the traveled ways;
         (b)   Which are of such intensity or brilliance as to cause glare or
to impair the vision of the driver of any motor vehicle; and
         (c)   Which otherwise interfere with a driver's operation of a motor
vehicle, are prohibited.
      (3)   No sign shall be so illuminated as to obscure or interfere with the
effectiveness of an official traffic sign, device, or signal.
      (4)   No illuminated sign shall be within 300 feet of any off-site
building used as a residence or any residential district.
      (5)   All other Indiana laws relating to lighting of signs presently
applicable to highways shall be met.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.433 REAL ESTATE SIGNS.
   Real estate signs advertising the sale, rental or lease of the premises on
which they are maintained shall be set back from the right-of-way line of any
street at least one-half the depth of the required front yard in the districts
where located; provided, however, that, such sign shall not exceed six square
feet in area and when attached flat against the building to which it pertains
shall be permitted in any case. Such real estate signs on any one lot shall not
exceed in the aggregate, 15 square feet in area.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.434 HOME OCCUPATION SIGN.
   Professional or announcement signs accessory to a Level 1 and Level 3 home
occupation shall be subject to their associated development standards in §§
156.420 through
156.422.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
UNIT DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
§ 156.445 CREATION AND EFFECT.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners may, by ordinance, establish
development plan or planned unit development requirements for a described tract
of real estate.
   (B)   The procedure for establishing these districts are the same as that
for the amendment of the Zone Map.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.446 COMMERCIAL UNIT DEVELOPMENT ESTABLISHMENT.
   A commercial unit development project may be established; provided, the
tract of land is located in any commercial zone district.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.447 RESIDENTIAL UNIT DEVELOPMENT ESTABLISHMENT.
   A residential unit development project may be established provided it is
located in any residential zone district.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.448 COMMUNITY UNIT DEVELOPMENT ESTABLISHMENT.
   A community unit development project may be established; provided, the tract
of land is located in such part of any A or R district where public water
supply and sanitary sewer facilities are available, and provided it abuts and
has access from a federal or state highway or a principal thoroughfare.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.449 INDUSTRIAL UNIT DEVELOPMENT ESTABLISHMENT.
   An industrial unit development project may be established provided the tract
of land is located in an industrial zone district.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.450 SINGLE DISTRICT UNIT.
   The established unit development district may be imposed as an addition to a
single tract of land with one zoning district for the entire tract. (As an
example, it could be A-1-DP or A-1-PUD District.)
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.451 OVERLAY MULTIPLE DISTRICT UNIT.
   The unit development district may also be imposed over a tract of land,
which has more than one zoning classification in which event this “overlay
district” would be in addition to each of the zoning districts in the tract.
(For example, there could be A-1-DP and B-1-DP, all in the same ordinance for
the same tract.)
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.452 EFFECT OF THE UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   After the imposition of the unit development district, the land will then be
subject to all of the basic requirements of the primary zoning district, plus
any of the conditions that are imposed by reason of the development plan or
PUD.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.453 VARIANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   The unit development ordinance may, in addition to imposing additional
standards, vary or waive certain of the standards of the subdistrict including
the permission of a different zoning classification of up to 20% of the real
estate included in the development plan.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.454 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to the foregoing, the Commission may impose such other
conditions, requirements or limitations concerning the design, development and
operation of such development unit projects as it may deem necessary for the
protection of adjacent properties and the public interest.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.455 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The specific development plan or planned unit development requirements shall
include the following standards which must be met and must be included in any
development plan.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.456 REQUIRED COMPONENTS.
   The development plan or planned unit development shall:
   (A)   Be consistent with the Comprehensive Master Plan;
   (B)   Not adversely affect neighboring property;
   (C)   Meet all the requirements of the zoning ordinance, unless specifically
varied or waived;
   (D)   Be subject to all conditions on the approval which are imposed; and
   (E)   Satisfy any requirement of written assurances or financial
responsibility to assure the completion of proposed improvement.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.457 PERMITTED ADDITIONAL COMPONENTS.
   In addition to these minimum standards, it is permissible for the ordinance
to impose standards relative to the following requirements.
   (A)   Prior to submitting any request for development unit projects, the
tract of land shall be in the proper zone classification for the proposed
project.
   (B)   Development unit projects shall comply with all area and yard
requirements prescribed herein.
   (C)   The proposed development unit project is at a location where traffic
congestion does not exist at present on the streets to be utilized in
conjunction therewith, and where undue congestion will not likely be created as
a result of the project.
   (D)   The development unit project provides for integrated and harmonious
design of buildings and for adequate and properly arranged facilities for
internal traffic circulation, off-street parking and loading, landscaping and
such other features and facilities as
may be necessary to make the project attractive and efficient from standpoint
of the developer as well as from standpoint of the adjoining or surrounding
existing or potential developments.
   (E)   The streets within the development unit project shall be paved
according to the county’s specifications, maintained in good condition and
lighted at night. The minimum roadway width be determined by the County
Engineer.
   (F)   The development unit project shall be started within one year of the
approval.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.458 PROCEDURE FOR DEVELOPMENT.
   The procedure development, once the ordinance has been imposed on the land,
will be identical to that procedure imposed for a subdivision and will be
administered by the Plan Commission. The original creation of the unit
development district may only be done by ordinance, but thereafter the
subdivision procedures and rules relative thereto will prevail in the
administration and approval of the districts, where applicable.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.459 SUBMISSION OF PLANS.
   (A)   An application for a development unit project shall be filed with the
Zoning Administrator and must be accompanied by scale drawings certified by a
registered engineer or surveyor.
   (B)   Such drawings shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Accurate dimensions of the develop-ment unit project;
      (2)   Topographic date:
         (a)   U.S. Geological Survey topo-graphic date may be used; and
         (b)   Watercourses, marshes, wooded areas and other natural or human-
made features which would affect the development unit project.
      (3)   Streets and right-of-way on or adjoining the site, including
dedicated right-of-way widths, roadway widths, approximate gradients, types and
widths of pavements, curbs, sidewalks or other pertinent data; and
      (4)   A general layout of the proposed structures and related facilities.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.460 COMMERCIAL UNIT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS.
   If the proposed development unit project is for an integrated commercial
center, the Commission shall be guided by the following requirements and
standards.
   (A)   The minimum site area for a neighborhood commercial development
project shall be five acres and the minimum site area for a commercial center
larger than the neighborhood type shall not be less than ten acres.
   (B)   The permitted uses in the case of a neighborhood commercial center
shall be those permitted in the C-1 Neighborhood Business District and also a
motor vehicle service station; provided, at least three other permitted
commercial uses have been completed and occupied in the same center; the uses
permitted in larger commercial centers shall be those in the C-3 General
Business District.
   (C)   Building height limits shall be the same as prescribed for the zoning
district in which the proposed project is located; provided that, no building
shall be less than 50 feet distant from any boundary of the site of the center.
   (D)   The ground area occupied by all the buildings shall not exceed in the
aggregate 25% of the total area of the site.
   (E)   Off-street parking and loading spaces shall meet the requirements in
§§
156.395 through
156.400 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.461 RESIDENTIAL UNIT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS.
   If the proposed development is to be a residential development unit project,
the Commission shall be guided by the following requirements and standards.
   (A)   The minimum site area for a residential development unit project shall
be determined by the Commission.
   (B)   Permitted uses shall be those permitted in the district in which the
project is located.
   (C)   Building height and density requirements shall be the same as in the
district in which the project is located; provided, however, that, the minimum
lot area per family or dwelling unit otherwise required in the district may be
reduced by the Commission by not more than 20% when, in its opinion, justified
by superior design and other favorable characteristics or features of the
proposed project.
   (D)   Yards and courts shall be of such size as to be in concert with and
appropriate relative to the requirements in the R-2 Zone District.
   (E)   If the project contains 20 acres or more, at least 5% of the acreage
of such site shall be developed as a neighborhood playground or playgrounds. If
the site contains less than 20 acres, the required area of play lots shall be
2,000 square feet for the first 50 dwelling units or fraction thereof, plus 30
square feet for each additional dwelling unit in excess of 50. Such recreation
areas shall be maintained in good order by the owner of the development.
   (F)   There shall be at least one and one-half off-street parking spaces for
each dwelling unit. Service drives and other service facilities shall be
located entirely within the project site and all such parking area and related
facilities shall be maintained in good order by the owner of the development.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.462 RESIDENTIAL UNIT COMMUNITY PROJECT REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS.
   If the proposed development is to be a residential community unit project,
the Commission shall be guided by the following requirements.
   (A)   The minimum site area of a residential community unit project shall be
100 acres; the site shall abut for a distance of not less than 1,000 feet and
have access from a federal or state highway, or a principal thoroughfare so
designated on the Major Highway Plan, and shall be located in such part of an A
or R district where public water supply and sanitary sewage facilities are
available in connection with the proposed development.
   (B)   Any of the uses permitted as regulated in the R-2 District, except as
stipulated in this section; provided that, the number of dwelling units in such
multi-family buildings as are first permitted in the R-2 District may not
exceed 25% of the total number of dwelling units in the entire development
project.
   (C)   The overall residential density in any community unit project shall
not exceed ten dwelling units per gross acre, excluding rights-of-way of public
roads.
   (D)   The height of one-family homes, two-family, three-family and four-
family dwellings and town houses shall not exceed two and one-half stories or
35 feet, and of any other residential buildings six stories or 60 feet.
   (E)   Yards and courts for one- and two- family dwellings and related uses
shall be the same as required in the R-2 District.
      (1)   All multi-family dwellings fronting on a collector street shall
have a front yard not less than 35 feet in depth, and those fronting on a
principal or secondary thoroughfare, not less than 45 feet in depth.
      (2)   The distance between principal buildings, front to front, shall not
be less than the sum of the heights of the buildings, but in no case less than
80 feet, and the distance between such buildings, back to back, shall be not
less than 60 feet. The distance between buildings in any other relationship to
one another shall be not less than 30 feet.
   (F)   (1)   There shall be provided at least one and one-half off-street
parking spaces, in buildings or parking areas, for each dwelling unit in the
development project; service drives and other facilities in connection
therewith shall be located entirely within the project area, and all such
parking areas and related facilities shall be maintained in good order by the
owner of the development or a properly constituted neighborhood association.
      (2)   Off-street parking and service facilities for other than
residential uses shall meet the requirements in §§
156.395 through
156.400 of this chapter.
   (G)   At least 10% of the gross area of the project shall be developed and
property equipped as playgrounds, playfields, parks or other recreation areas.
Such areas and facilities shall be maintained in good order by the owner of the
development or by a properly constituted neighborhood association, or, if
accepted by the Commission may be dedicated to the county.
   (H)   In case the site of the proposed residential community development
project contains all or a part of a proposed school site, shown on the Master
Plan or when, in the judgment of the Commission, provisions for a school site
within the site of the development project is or will be needed to serve the
anticipated population, such school site or part thereof shall be conveyed to
the school corporation within whose jurisdiction the site is located.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.463 INDUSTRIAL UNIT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS.
   If the proposed development unit project is for an industrial center, the
Commission shall be guided by the following requirements and standards.
   (A)   The minimum site area for an industrial unit development shall be five
acres.
   (B)   The permitted uses in the case of a neighborhood commercial center
shall be those permitted in the M-1 and M-2 Zones.
   (C)   The building height limits shall be the same as those described in the
zoning districts in which the project is located; provided that, no building
shall be less than 50 feet distance from any boundary of the site of this
development.
   (D)   The ground area occupied by all of the buildings shall not exceed in
the aggregate of 50% of the total area of the site.
   (E)   Off-street parking and loading space shall meet the requirements of §§
156.395 and
156.396 of this chapter.
   (F)   The Commission may require that in the front yard setbacks along any
public road, that appropriate screening and planting may be established as a
part of the site plan.
   (G)   In establishing an industrial site, the site shall abut for a distance
of not less than 500 feet, and have access to a federal or state highway, or
principal thoroughfare so designated on the major highway plan. It shall be
located where public water and sanitary sewer facilities are available in
connection with the proposed project. If this is not available, then it must
provide for its own sewer package system, which is acceptable to the state
regulatory authorities and to the Commission.
   (H)   There shall be provided at least one off-street parking spaces for
each 300 square foot of the building provided; service drives and other
facilities connection therewith shall be located entirely within the project
area, and all such parking areas and related facilities shall be maintained in
good order by the owner of the industrial development or the industrial
building located therein.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
EXTRACTION OF MINERALS
§ 156.475 PROCEDURES, APPLICATION AND PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Any owner, lessee or other person, firm or corporation having an
interest in mineral resources within lands where the extraction or mining of
such minerals is not prohibited under the provision of §
156.047 of this chapter may file with the Board of Zoning Appeals an
application for authorization to extract minerals therefrom.
   (B)   An application for such operation shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   Name of the owner or owners of the land from which removal is to be
made;
      (2)   Name of applicant making request for such a permit;
      (3)   Name of the person or corporation conducting the actual removal
operation;
      (4)   Location, description and size of the area from which the removal
is to be made;
      (5)   Location of processing plant used;
      (6)   Type of resources or materials to be removed;
      (7)   Proposed method of removal and whether or not blasting or other use
of explosives will be required;
      (8)   Description of equipment to be used; and
      (9)   Method of rehabilitation to be used.
   (C)   Upon receipt of such application, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
set the matter for a public hearing in accordance with the provisions of §§
156.570 through
156.578 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.476 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Structures and equipment, their use and operation shall comply with
all requirements of the district in which said property is located.
   (B)   No quarrying operation shall be carried on or any stock pile placed
closer than 75 feet to any property line, unless a greater distance is
specified by the Board of Zoning Appeals where such is deemed necessary for the
protection of adjacent property; provided that, this distance requirement may
be reduced to 50 feet by written consent of the owner or owners of the abutting
property.
   (C)   In the event that the site of the mining or quarrying operation is
adjacent to the right-of-way of any public street or road, no part of such
operation shall take place closer than 75 feet to the nearest line of such
right-of-way.
   (D)   Fencing shall be erected and maintained around the entire site or
portions thereof where in the opinion of the Board of Zoning Appeals such
fencing is necessary for the protection of the public safety, and shall be of a
type specified by the County Highway Supervisor.
   (E)   All equipment and machinery shall be operated and maintained in such
manner as to minimize dust, noise and vibration. Access roads shall be
maintained in dust-free condition by surfacing or other treatment as may be
specified by the County Engineer.
   (F)   The crushing, washing and refining or other similar processing may be
authorized by the Board of Zoning Appeals as an accessory use; provided,
however, that, such accessory processing shall not be in conflict with the use
regulations of the district in which the operation is located, and shall not be
located within 200 feet of any boundary of the site.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.477 REHABILITATION; BONDS.
   To guarantee the restoration, rehabilitation and reclamation of mined-out
areas, every applicant granted a mining permit as herein provided shall furnish
a performance bond running to the county as a guarantee that such applicant, in
restoring, reclaiming and rehabilitation such land, shall within a reasonable
time and to the satisfaction of the County Commissioners, meet the following
minimum requirements.
   (A)   All excavation shall be made either to a water producing depth, such
depth to be not less than five feet below water mark, or shall be graded or
back-filled with non-noxious, non-inflammable and non-combustible solids, to
secure that the excavated area shall not collect and permit to remain therein
stagnant water; or that the surface of such area which is not permanently
submerged is graded or back-filled as necessary so as to reduce the peaks and
depressions thereof so as to produce a gently running surface that will
minimize erosion due to rainfall and which will be in substantial conformity to
the adjoining land area.
   (B)   Vegetation shall be restored by appropriate seeds of grasses or
planting of shrubs or trees in all parts of said mining area where such area is
not to be submerged under water as herein above provided.
   (C)   The banks of all excavations not back-filled shall be sloped to the
waterline at a slope which shall not be less than three feet horizontal to one
foot vertical and said bank shall be seeded.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.478 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to the foregoing the Board of Zoning Appeals may impose such
other conditions, requirements or limitations concerning the nature, extent of
the use and operation of such mines, quarries or gravel pits as the Board of
Zoning Appeals may deem necessary for the protection of adjacent properties and
the public interest. The said conditions and the amount of the performance bond
shall be determined by the Board of Zoning Appeals prior to issuance of the
permit.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS
§ 156.490 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   No land or structure, in any district shall be used or occupied in any
manner so as to create any dangerous, injurious, noxious or otherwise
objectionable fire, explosive or other hazard, including potential hazards,
noise or vibration; smoke, dust, odor or other form of air pollution, heat,
cold, dampness, electrical or other substance, condition or element (referred
to herein as dangerous or objectionable elements); in such manner or in such
amount as to adversely affect the adjoining premises or surrounding area;
provided that, any use permitted or not expressly prohibited by this chapter
may be undertaken and maintained if it conforms to the provisions of this
section limiting dangerous and objectionable elements; provided, however, this
section shall not apply to customary and reasonable agriculture uses.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.491 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Types of pools and locations.
      (1)   Public swimming pools. A public pool in any district may not be
located within less than 200 feet of any other lot in any R district.
      (2)   Private swimming pools. A private pool may be located anywhere on
the premises, except in required front yards; provided, it shall not be located
closer than ten feet to any property line of the property on which located;
and, provided that, pump and filter installation shall not be located closer
than 20 feet to any such property line.
      (3)   Farm pond or stock tank. A farm pond or stock tank shall not be
considered to be a swimming pool; however, if such an installation is used for
commercial recreational purposes, then, it shall be classified as a swimming
pool.
   (B)   General requirements. All swimming pools must comply with the
following requirements.
      (1)   The swimming pool, or the entire property on which it is located,
shall be so walled or fenced as to prevent uncontrolled access by children from
the street or from adjacent properties.
      (2)   Adequate provision for drainage shall be made subject to approval
by the County Surveyor.
      (3)   Any lighting used to illuminate the pool area shall be so arranged
as to deflect the light from adjoining properties.
      (4)   No person, firm or corporation shall construct or install a
swimming pool or make any alteration thereon or in the appurtenances thereof
without having first obtained an improvement location permit for such
construction, installation or alteration.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS
§ 156.505 DETERMINATION BY BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   Special exceptions may be permitted by the Board of Zoning Appeals after
public hearing, only in accordance with procedures set forth in this section
and the requirements listed herein. No special exception shall be granted
unless the Board shall have first found that the public convenience and welfare
will substantially be served and that the proposed use will not be unduly
detrimental to the surrounding area. In the exercise of its approval the Board
may impose such additional conditions regarding the location, character and
other features of the proposed building or structure or use as it may deem
advisable in the furtherance of the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.506 FILING PROCEDURE.
   A petition for a special exception shall be filed with the County Plan
Administrator upon such form and accompanied by such information as shall be
established by the Board. The Plan Administrator shall then proceed to process
the application. The Board shall then proceed with a hearing in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.507 CONFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Board may impose conditions to assure that the special exception
will conform to the intent of this chapter.
   (B)   These conditions may include, but are not limited to, the provisions
of the following:
      (1)   Off-street parking and loading areas, with particular attention to
the economic, noise, glare or odor effects of the special exception on
adjoining properties;
      (2)   Refuse and service areas;
      (3)   Special screening and buffering with reference to type, dimensions
and character;
      (4)   Signs and proposed exterior lighting with reference to glare,
traffic safety, economic effect and compatibility and harmony with properties
in the area;
      (5)   Additional setback distances, yards and open spaces;
      (6)   (a)   General compatibility with adjoining properties, with
reference to site development standards designed for their mutual protection
and the environmental harmony of the area.
         (b)   A confined feeding operation, a concentrated animal feeding
operation, and a satellite manure storage structure shall meet any applicable
requirements of the federal, state or local government. Also, in addition to
those requirements for special exceptions found in divisions (B)(1) through (B)
(6) above, the following requirements may apply, as determined by the Board, to
a confined feeding operation, a concentrated animal feeding operation and a
satellite manure storage structure.
      (7)   The minimum lot size on which a confined feeding operation,
concentrated animal feeding operation, and a satellite manure storage structure
may be permitted is 40 acres;
      (8)   A minimum setback distance of 1,320 feet from any other zone
district, including zone districts located in adjoining counties, is required
for the placement of a confined feeding operation, a concentrated animal
feeding operation and a satellite manure storage structure;
      (9)   A minimum setback distance shall be 660 feet from any lot line of a
parcel containing an existing residence, business, public recreation area, golf
course or any non-agricultural principle permitted use in the A-1 Agricultural
Zone District for the placement of a confined feeding operation, a concentrated
animal feeding operation, and a satellite manure storage structure. Exception
#1: the minimum setback distance may be reduced upon having a written agreement
with the owner(s) of the existing residence, business, public recreation area,
golf course or any non-agricultural principle use permitted in the A-
1 Agricultural Zone District. Any such agreement shall contain the legal
description of the property owned by the agreeing property owner(s), be in
recordable form, and duly recorded in the office of the county recorder of each
county in which that property is located;
      (10)   A manure storage capacity of at least 225 days is required for all
confined feeding operations, and concentrated animal feeding operations;
      (11)   A minimum setback distance shall be 1,000 feet from any private or
public water supply well, public water supply surface intake structure or
drinking water supply reservoirs. A private water supply well that is located
upon the same parcel as the SMSS is not required to comply with this setback
distance;
      (12)   A minimum setback distance shall be 660 feet from any other
sensitive area;
      (13)   A copy of the manure management plan as submitted to the State
Department of Environmental Management during the State Confined Feeding
Regulation Program permitting process is required to be submitted with the
special exception application;
      (14)   (a)   A construction design for an MSMSS shall be provided at the
time of application and shall be made available to the Board. The Board, after
having examined the construction design and conditions specific to the site
(e.g., soil types, topography, unique site features and the like) may require
additional setbacks or conditions for approval as permitted by divisions (B)(1)
through (B)(6) above. In the event that the State Department of Environmental
Management has determined through their permitting process that additional or
greater setbacks are required to protect human health or the environment, the
additional or greater setbacks shall apply.
         (b)   A small wind energy conversion system (WECS) shall meet any
applicable requirements of the federal, state or local government. In addition
to those requirements for Special Exceptions found in divisions (B)(1) through
(B)(6) above, the following shall apply to a Small Wind Energy Conversion
System.
      (15)   No small WECS shall be illuminated unless required by a state or
federal agency, such as the FAA;
      (16)   The exterior surface of all small WECS, including the wind tower
and associated outbuildings shall be a non-reflective, neutral color;
      (17)   Minimum clearance between blade tip and ground level is thirty
feet (30’);
      (18)   The minimum separation distance between a wind tower associated
with a small wind energy conversion system and all surrounding property lines,
overhead utility or transmission lines, other electrical substations,
meteorological towers and primary communication towers shall be no less than
the total height of the wind tower. This is measured from the base of each wind
tower;
      (19)   The minimum setback between a wind tower associated with a small
wind energy conversion system and a public street(s) shall be no less than the
total height of the wind tower or the front setback of the applicable zone
district, whichever is the greater;
      (20)   A small wind energy conversion system must be located at least
1,000 feet from any existing dwelling unit, except a dwelling unit(s) located
on the parcel on which the wind tower is erected;
      (21)   All small WECS shall be located so that the level of noise
produced by the wind turbine operation heard off of the parcel on which the
wind tower is erected shall not exceed 55dBA;
      (22)   The base of all small WECS, including any guy wires and wind
tower, shall be totally and permanently enclosed by security fence at least six
feet high. No fence is required if the climbing apparatus is enclosed inside
the wind tower and the entry is secured, or if the climbing apparatus is
located at least 12 feet above the ground level;
      (23)   Small WECS associated outbuildings/ cabinets shall meet all
setback requirements for primary structures for the zoning district in which
the small WECS is located;
      (24)   Special exception applications and improvement location permit
applications for a small wind energy conversion system must be accompanied by a
decommissioning plan detailing how the small wind energy conversion system will
be dismantled and the land restored to its prior state. Such plan would be
implemented when such small wind energy conversion system ceases operation for
a period of 12 months. The plan would include the removal of all portions of
the small WECS, including any components to a depth of at least four feet below
ground level. The applicant may be required to provide a surety bond or other
proof of financial responsibility as prescribed by the Board of County
Commissioners in an amount determined by the Plan Commission to be of a
sufficient amount to complete the decommissioning plan. The decommissioning
must be complete within six months of commencement;
      (25)   All small WECS shall be equipped with a manual and automatic
braking device capable of halting operations;
      (26)   All wiring installed outside of the wind tower for a small WECS
shall be buried;
      (27)   No small WECS shall be installed in any location where its
proximity with fixed broadcast, retransmission or recreation antenna for radio;
airport RF signals, television or wireless phone or other personal
communications systems would produce electromagnetic interference with signal
transmission or reception;
      (28)   All small WECS electrical equipment and connections must adhere to
all applicable local, state and national codes, and relevant national and
international standards;
      (29)   Special exception applications and improvement location permit
applications for a small WECS must include a transportation plan showing how
vehicles would access the site of a small WECS. The plan shall describe the
impact of the proposed project on the local and regional road system during
construction, including the transporting of small WECS parts and/or equipment
for construction, as well as the operation and maintenance of the project.
         (a)   The plan shall identify any proposed routes that will be used
for construction, operation and maintenance purposes. If the route includes a
public road under the jurisdiction of the County Highway Department, the plan
must be approved by the County Highway Superintendent. The Superintendent shall
conduct a pre-construction assessment to determine existing road conditions for
determining potential future damage.
         (b)   If the route includes a public road under the jurisdiction of
any other entity, the plan must be approved by that entity.
         (c)   Any damage caused to a public road under the jurisdiction of the
County Highway Superintendent by the construction, operation or maintenance of
the small WECS project must be repaired to the satisfaction of the County
Highway Superintendent. The Superintendent may determine that repairs of the
road are necessary before the project has been completed; or the Superintendent
may determine to require repairs of the road upon completion of the project.
         (d)   A surety bond in an amount determined by the County
Commissioners may be required to insure the county that repairs are completed
to the satisfaction of the County Board of Commissioners.
      (30)   In any small WECS installation, the shadow flicker must be
eliminated from any roadway or any occupied structure located on any non-
participating property by the placement location of the small WECS; and
      (31)   A commercial dog breeder and an unlimited kennel shall meet any
applicable requirements of the federal, state or local government. In addition
to those requirements for a special exception found in divisions (B)(1) through
(B)(6) above, the following shall apply to a commercial dog breeder and an
unlimited kennel.
         (a)   Commercial Dog Breeder:
            1.   Minimum lot area: 15 acres; and
            2.   Minimum setback from an existing off premises business,
residence or accessory structures of the off-premises residence: 400 feet.
         (b)   Unlimited kennel, minimum lot:
            1.   Area: 15 acres; and
            2.   Minimum setback from an existing off premises business,
residence or accessory structures of the off-premises structure: 400 feet.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2005-009, passed - -2005; Ord. 2015-002, passed 3-
18-2015; Ord. 2016-010, passed 12-7-2016)
§ 156.508 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person who is issued a special exception approval who fails to commence
construction or special exception use within 12 months after such approval by
the Board, may be required by the Board upon its own motion, to show why such
special exception approval should not be withdrawn.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.509 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   The following uses may be permitted by the Board in the Specified Zone
Districts:
Name of Special Exception Specified Zone District Where Special Exception May
                          Be Permitted
                                                                                Specified
                                                                                Zone District
Name of Special Exception                                                       Where Special
                                                                                Exception May
                                                                                Be Permitted
Agriculture related uses and services, animal related uses, animal husbandry
and services on lots less than 5 acres and processing of products grown on
premises, seed and fertilizer sales and distribution, livestock sales yards and A-1, A-2, A-3
building, truck terminals for livestock, custom slaughter facilities, grain
elevators
Airport or heliport (public or private) subject to applicable state and federal A-1, R-S, R-
regulations                                                                     1, R-2, C-1,
                                                                                C-2, C-3, M-2
Artificial lake other than farm pond                                            A-2, A-1
Art galleries                                                                   R-S, R-1, R-2
Auditorium, stadium, baseball park, arena, gymnasium and other places for       A-1, C-2, C-
public events                                                                   3, M-1, M-2
Boat livery                                                                     A-1, A-2
Business office                                                                 C-1
Camp                                                                            A-1, A-2
Camping Grounds                                                                 A-1, A-2
                                                                                R-S, R-1, R-
Cemeteries, crematories, mausoleums                                             2, C-1, C-2,
                                                                                C-3, M-1, M-2
Chemicals, including carbide, caustic soda, cleaning and polishing
preparations, exterminating agents, hydrogen and oxygen, industrial alcohol,    M-3
nitrating of cotton or other materials, nitrates (manufactured and natural) of
an explosive nature, potash, plastic materials and synthetic resins
Clinics, medical and dental                                                     R-2
Clinics, veterinary (common small, domesticated animals)                        A-1
                                                                                A-1, R-S, R-
Clubs and lodges, non-commercial                                                1, R-2, C-1,
                                                                                C-2, C-3, M-
                                                                                1, M-2
Coal, coke and tar products, including gas manufacturing                        M-3
Coal yards                                                                      M-3
Colleges and universities                                                       R-S, R-1, R-
                                                                                2, C-1, C-2
Commercial dog breeder/unlimited kennel                                         A-1, A-2, C-
                                                                                1, C-2, C-3
                                                                                A-1, but only
Confined feeding operation, concentrated animal feeding operation, satellite    on tracts of
manure storage structure                                                        land having
                                                                                at least 40
                                                                                acres
Convents and monasteries                                                        R-S, R-1, R-
                                                                                2, C-1, C-2
Country club and/or golf course                                                 R-S, R-1, R-2
Dental and medical offices                                                      R-S, R-1, R-2
Disposal plants, sewage, garbage or refuse                                      A-1, A-2, M-2
Disposal sites (dump, landfill)                                                 A-1, A-2
                                                                                A-1, R-S, R-
Domestic pet grooming facility                                                  1, R-2, C-1,
                                                                                C-2, C-3
Dormitory                                                                       R-S, R-1, R-
                                                                                2, C-1, C-2
Drive-in establishment                                                          C-1, M-1, M-2
Drive-in movie (theater)                                                        A-1, C-1
Drive-in restaurant                                                             C-1, M-1, M-2
                                                                                A-1, R-S, R-
Dwelling – special placement                                                  1, R-2, C-1,
                                                                                C-2
Extraction of raw materials (gravel, sand, oil and the like)                    A-1, A-2
                                                                                A-1, R-S, R-
Family group home                                                               1, R-2, C-1,
                                                                                C-2
Farm alcohol production                                                         A-1, A-2
                                                                                A-1, A-2, R-
Fire stations or police stations as public utility                              S, R-1, R-2,
                                                                                C-1, C-2, C-
                                                                                3, M-1, M-2
Foundries                                                                       M-1
Fraternity or sorority and the houses                                           R-S, R-1, R-
                                                                                2, C-1, C-2
                                                                                A-1, limited
                                                                                to a single
                                                                                refrigerated
                                                                                trailer using
                                                                                an engine
Frozen food locker rental business                                              with a
                                                                                maximum sound
                                                                                output of 60
                                                                                decibels
                                                                                measured at
                                                                                the property
                                                                                lines
                                                                                R-2, C-1, C-
Funeral homes and mortuaries                                                    2, C-3, M-1,
                                                                                M-2
                                                                                A-1, R-S, R-
Health facility                                                                 1, R-2, C-1,
                                                                                C-2
                                                                                A-1, R-S, R-
Hospital                                                                        1, R-2, C-1,
                                                                                C-2
                                                                                A-1, R-S, R-
Institution                                                                     1, R-2, C-1,
                                                                                C-2
Junk or salvage yards                                                           M-1
Kennel, large                                                                   C-1, C-2, C-3
                                                                                A-1, A-2, R-
Manufactured home – mobile home, emergency or temporary use                   S, R-1, R-2,
                                                                                C-1, C-2, C-
                                                                                3, M-1, M-2
Manufactured home – mobile home park                                          A-1, R-2, C-
                                                                                1, C-2, C-3
                                                                                A-1, A-2, R-
Manufacture home – Type II, Type III or mobile home residence                 S, R-1, R-2,
                                                                                C-1, C-2
Motel or motor hotel                                                            R-2, C-1
Motor vehicle service station                                                   C-1
                                                                                A-1, R-S, R-
Nursing homes                                                                   1, R-2, C-1,
                                                                                C-2
Personal services                                                               R-2
                                                                                A-1, R-S, R-
Philanthropic and eleemosynary uses                                             1, R-2, C-1,
                                                                                C-2, C-3, M-
                                                                                1, M-2
Portable x-ray equipment                                                        C-2
Professional activities                                                         R-2, C-1
Public service oriented, recreation buildings, community centers                A-1, C-2, C-
                                                                                3, M-1, M-2
                                                                                A-1, R-S, R-
Radio, television and community antenna reception towers                        1, R-2, C-1,
                                                                                C-2, C-3, M-
                                                                                1, M-2
Range, golf driving, rifle skeet club                                           A-1, A-2
                                                                                R-S, R-1, C-
Recreation development, private or non-commercial                               1, C-2, C-3,
                                                                                M-1
                                                                                A-1, Minimum
                                                                                requirements:
                                                                                district
                                                                                development
                                                                                standards for
                                                                                Other
                                                                                Permitted
                                                                                Uses.
Recreation facilities, commercial                                               Exception: A
                                                                                commercial
                                                                                recreation
                                                                                facility is
                                                                                not permitted
                                                                                within a
                                                                                platted
                                                                                subdivision
                                                                                with two or
                                                                                more lots
Recreation vehicle park                                                         A-1, C-1, C-2
Residence, single-family                                                        C-3, M-1, M-
                                                                                2, M-3
                                                                                A-1, A-2,
                                                                                Minimum
                                                                                requirements:
                                                                                district
                                                                                development
                                                                                standards for
                                                                                Other
                                                                                Permitted
Residence, two-family dwelling                                                  Uses.
                                                                                Exception: A
                                                                                two-family
                                                                                dwelling is
                                                                                not permitted
                                                                                in a platted
                                                                                subdivision
                                                                                with two or
                                                                                more lots
Restaurant                                                                      C-1
                                                                                A-1, R-S, R-
Sanitarium, sanatorium                                                          1, R-2, C-1,
                                                                                C-2
Schools, nursery or day                                                         R-S, R-1, R-
                                                                                2, C-1, C-2
                                                                                A-1, R-S, R-
Sewers, central or group                                                        1, R-2, C-1,
                                                                                C-2, C-3
Signs, advertising                                                              C-1
                                                                                A-1, A-2, A-
Tourist houses, bed and breakfast                                               3, R-S, R-1,
                                                                                R-2, C-1, C-2
Utility – public utility and communication buildings necessary for furnishing A-1, A-2, R-
services to the area, but not including general offices, garages, warehouses    S, R-1, R-2,
and telephone exchanges, bus turnarounds                                        C-1, C-2, C-
                                                                                3, M-1, M-2
WECS - small wind energy conversion system                                      A-1, A-2
Wireless communications facility, wireless communications facility with         A-1-CP, R-S,
wireless support structure and wireless support structure                       R-1, R-2
 
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. passed 12-21-1994; Ord. passed 2-5-1997; Ord.
passed 7-24-2001; Ord. 2019-012, passed 8-21-2019; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-
2023)
§ 156.510 STANDARDS FOR MODIFICATION OF A PRIOR EXISTING NON-CONFORMITY.
   Buildings or structures with legally non-conforming development standards
which: predate the adoption date of the original zoning ordinance on October
30, 1967, and/or which are the result of a previously approved variance from
the development standards, may be permitted to be extended, altered, enlarged
(vertically, and/or horizontally) and reconstructed, (if the reconstruction is
completed within less than a year from the date of removal), with the
requirement that the proposed change(s) will not cause or increase any
nonconformity of the building or structure's development standards. Exceptions:
   (A)   As used in this section, the term structure shall not include within
its meaning a mobile home as it is described in §
156.004.
   (B)   Ponds, lakes, buildings, or structures located within a special flood
hazard area and/or the best available flood hazard layer.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.511 FARM ALCOHOL PRODUCTION.
   (A)   Application, contents, procedure.
      (1)   Any owner, lessee or other person, firm or corporation having an
interest in alcohol production may file with the Board of Zoning Appeals an
application for authorization to produce alcohol for fuel or as an additive to
other fuels.
      (2)   An application for alcohol production shall include, for the
Board’s analysis and determination, the following information:
         (a)   Name of the owner or owners of the property on which the alcohol
is to be produced;
         (b)   Name of applicant making request for such operation and name of
person or persons to be operator;
         (c)   Location, description, and size of the property on which the
alcohol is to be produced;
         (d)   Location of the production site;
         (e)   Type of resources, and source of same, to be used in the
production;
         (f)   Description of equipment to be used;
         (g)   Quantity proposed to produce;
         (h)   Proposed use or disposal of distilled product;
         (i)   Method of storage;
         (j)   Proposed use of by-product;
         (k)   Storage of by-product; and
         (l)   All applications shall be filed as outlined in the Board of
Zoning Appeals rules of procedure.
   (B)   General requirements. The regulations, (federal, state or local)
prescribed by any other authority having jurisdiction, and as may be otherwise
required by law, shall be complied with, in addition to the following
regulations.
      (1)   The tract of land shall be in either the A-2 Big-Lot or A-
1 Agriculture Zone District.
      (2)   No vehicular entrance to or exit from any alcohol production site,
whenever such may be located, shall be within 200 feet along roads from any
school, church, hospital or institution for dependents or for children. All
access roads shall be maintained in a dust free condition.
      (3)   No alcohol operation or production shall be carried on or any stock
pile of by-products closer than 75 feet to any right-of-way or property line,
unless a greater distance is specified by the Board of Zoning Appeals where
such is deemed necessary for the protection of adjacent property.
      (4)   Fencing shall be erected and maintained around the entire site or
portions thereof where in the opinion of the Board of Zoning Appeals such
fencing is necessary for the protection of the public safety.
      (5)   All equipment used in the processing shall be operated and
maintained in such manner that the public safety will not be endangered or
impair property values within the neighborhood.
   (C)   Hearing.
      (1)   Upon receipt of application, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall set
the case for public hearing in accordance with provisions of §
156.576 of this chapter.
      (2)   In the event the Board of Zoning Appeals should decide to approve
the request, in addition to the forgoing, the Board of Zoning Appeals may
impose such other conditions, requirements or limitations concerning the
nature, extent of the use and operation of such alcohol production as the Board
of Zoning Appeals may deem necessary for the protection of adjacent properties
and the public interest.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
VARIANCES AND MODIFICATIONS
§ 156.525 LOTS OF RECORD.
   In any district where dwellings are permitted, a one-family detached
dwelling may be erected on any lot of official record at the effective date of
this chapter, irrespective of its area or width, the owner of which does not
own any adjoining property; provided that, yard spaces satisfy requirements
stipulated for the district in which such lot is located, or requirements as
may be modified under §
156.527 of this chapter or by the Board as set forth in §§
156.570 through
156.578 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.526 HEIGHT MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The height limitations stipulated elsewhere in this chapter shall not
apply to the following:
      (1)   Barns, silos, or other farm buildings or structures on farms,
church spires, belfries, cupolas, domes, monuments, water towers, fire and hose
towers, observation towers, transmission towers, windmills, chimneys,
smokestacks, flag poles, radio towers, masts, aerials and parapet walls
extending not more than four feet above the limiting height of the building;
also wireless communications facilities and wireless support structures, and
their necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected or changed to any
height that is not otherwise prohibited by federal, state or local regulation;
      (2)   Places of public assembly in churches, schools and other permitted
public and semi-public buildings; provided that, these are located on the first
floor of such buildings; and, provided that, for each three feet by which the
height of such building exceeds the minimum height otherwise permitted in the
district, its side and rear yards shall be increased in width or depth by an
additional foot over the side and rear yards required for the highest building
otherwise permitted in the district; and
      (3)   Bulkheads, elevator penthouse, water tanks, monitors and scenery
lofts; provided, no linear dimensions of any such structure exceeds 50% of the
corresponding street lot line frontage; or to towers and monuments, fire
towers, hose towers, cooling towers, grain elevators, gas holders or other
structures, where the manufacturing process requires a greater height.
   (B)   All such structures above the heights otherwise permitted in the
district shall not occupy more than 25% of the area of the lot and shall be
distant not less than 50 feet in all parts from every lot line not a street lot
line.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2019-012, passed 8-21-2019)
§ 156.527 YARD MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard modifications.
      (1)   In any A or R district, where the average depth of at least two
existing front yards on lots within 100 feet on the lot in question and within
the same block front is less than or greater than the least front yard depth
prescribed elsewhere in this chapter, the required depth of the front yard on
such lot shall be modified. In such case, this shall not be less than the
average of the depth on the two lots immediately adjoining, or, in the case
where there are no buildings on both of the lots immediately adjoining, the
average depth of the front yards on lots within 100 feet of the lot in question
and within the same block front; provided, however, that, the depth of a front
yard on any lot shall be at least ten feet and need not exceed 50 feet.
      (2)   In any A or R district where the natural slope of a lot within the
required front yard has an average slope, normal to the front lot line at every
point along said line, of such a degree or percent of slope that it is not
practicable to provide a driveway with a grade of 12% or less to a private
garage conforming with the requirements of this chapter, such garage may be
located within such front yard, but not in any case closer than six feet from
the front lot line.
      (3)   Buildings on lots having frontage on two non-intersecting streets
need not have a rear yard, if an equivalent open space is provided on the lot
in lieu of such required rear yard; applicable front yards must be provided,
however, on both streets.
      (4)   In those cases where the required lot width is not reached until
the front building setback distance has been exceeded, then the minimum setback
from any front property line, other than street rights-of-way, shall be the
same as required for side line setback distance in the appropriate zoning
district.
      (5)   In those cases where the front property line at the street-right-
way does not meet minimum lot width, then the front setback line shall be at
that point where the minimum is reached; provided, the required setback
distance has been exceeded.
   (B)   Side yard modifications.
      (1)   Each side yard, where required, shall be increased in width by two
inches, for each foot by which the length of the side wall of the building,
adjacent to the side yard, exceeds 40 feet.
      (2)   Side yard width may be varied where the side wall of a building is
not parallel with the side lot line or is broken or otherwise irregular. In
such case, the average width of the side yard shall not be less than the
otherwise required least width; provided, however, that, such side yard shall
not be narrower at any point than one-half the otherwise required least width;
or narrower than three feet in any case.
   (C)   Rear and side yards.
      (1)   In computing the depth of a rear yard or the width of a side yard,
where the rear or side yard abuts an alley, one-half of the width of the alley
may be included as a portion of the required rear or side yard, as the case may
be; provided, however, that, no side yard shall be less at any point than three
feet, and no rear yard less than ten feet.
      (2)   (a)   Depth of a rear yard or width of each side yard for a one-
family or two-family dwelling may be reduced by four inches and two inches
respectively, for each foot by which a lot at the time of enactment of this
chapter is less than 100 feet deep or less than 50 feet wide; provided,
however, that, no such side yard shall be less at any point than three feet,
or, in the case of such side yard along a side street lot line, less than five
feet; and, further provided that, no such rear yard shall be less than ten
feet.
         (b)   The width of one side yard may be reduced when authorized by the
Board, in the case of a one-family or two-family dwelling, to a width of not
less than three feet; provided, the sum of the widths of the two side yards is
not less than the required minimum; and, provided, the distance between the
proposed dwelling and another dwelling, existing or proposed, on an adjacent
lot is not less than the required minimum sum of the widths of two side yards;
provided, however, that, such reduction may be authorized only when the Board
finds it warranted by the location of existing buildings or conducive to the
desirable development of two or more lots.
   (D)   Yard modifications for kennels. Lot size, front, side and rear
setbacks for kennels in all districts shall comply with the requirements of §§
156.079 and
156.507 of this chapter unless modified by the Board of Zoning Appeals using
the conformance requirements in §
156.507 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2015-002, passed 3-18-2015)
YARD PROJECTIONS
§ 156.540 PROJECTION OF ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES.
   Certain architectural features may project into required yards or courts as
follows:
   (A)   Into any required front yard, or required side yard adjoining a side
street lot line:
      (1)   Cornices, canopies, eaves or other architectural features may
project a distance not exceeding two feet, six inches;
      (2)   Fire escapes may project a distance not exceeding four feet, six
inches;
      (3)   An uncovered stair and necessary landings may project a distance
not to exceed six feet, provided such stair and landing shall not extend above
the entrance floor of the building except for a railing not exceeding three
feet in height; and
      (4)   Bay windows, balconies, and chimneys may project a distance not
exceeding three feet; provided that, such features do not occupy, in the
aggregate, more than one-third of the length of the building wall on which they
are located.
   (B)   Subject to the limitations in §
156.245 of this chapter, the above-named features may project into any required
side yard adjoining an interior side lot line, a distance not exceeding one-
third of the required least width of such side yard, but not exceeding three
feet in any case.
   (C)   Subject to the limitations of §
156.245 of this chapter, the features named therein may project into any
required rear yards the same distances they are permitted to project into a
front yard: provided, however, that, landings of porches may be covered and may
be covered and may project a distance not exceeding ten feet, but not closer
than ten feet from the rear lot line.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.541 FENCES, WALKS AND HEDGES.
   Fences, walks and hedges may be located in required yards as follows.
   (A)   If not exceeding at any point four feet in height above the elevation
of the surface of the ground at such point, such features may be located in any
yard.
   (B)   If not exceeding at any point six feet in height above the elevation
of the surface of the ground at such point, they may be located in any required
rear yard or side yard.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.542 YARD REQUIREMENTS ALONG ZONING BOUNDARY LINES IN THE LESS RESTRICTED
DISTRICT.
   (A)   Special rules apply to lots located in the less restricted district
where one or more of its sides border on a different zoning district, unless
subject to special greater restrictions or requirements stipulated by other
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Where the front, side, rear lot line or court are on the dividing
line, then the minimum depth and width shall equal the average of the depth and
width requirements in the two districts.
   (C)   In the case where the height of a proposed structure on such lot in
the less restricted district is greater than the maximum height permitted in
the adjoining more restricted district, the minimum depth or width of the side
yard, rear yard or court for such structure shall be determined by increasing
the minimum depth or width for the highest structure permitted in such more
restricted district by one foot for each two feet by which the proposed
structure exceeds the maximum height permitted in said more restricted
district.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
ADMINISTRATION GENERALLY
§ 156.555 ENFORCEMENT BY ZONING INSPECTOR.
   There is hereby established the position of Zoning Inspector and for
purposes of this chapter, the Zoning and Subdivision Administrator is
designated as Zoning Inspector. It shall be the duty of the Zoning Inspector to
enforce this chapter in accordance with the administrative procedures of the
county and of this chapter. All departments, officials and public employees of
the county vested with the duty or authority to issue permits or licenses shall
conform to the provisions of this chapter and shall issue no permit or license
for any use, building or purpose in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter. Any permit or license, issued in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter shall be null and void.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.556 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every application for an improvement location permit shall be
accompanied by plans, in duplicate, drawn to scale in black line or blue print,
showing the actual shape and dimensions of the lot to be built upon or to be
changed in its use, in whole or in part; the exact location, size and height of
any building or structure to be erected or altered; the existing and intended
use of each building or structure or part thereof, the number of families or
housekeeping units the building is designed to accommodate; and, when no
buildings are involved, the location of the present use and proposed use to be
made of the lot; and such other information with regard to the lot and
neighboring lots as may be necessary to determine and provide for the
enforcement of this chapter. One copy of such plans shall be returned to the
owner when such plans have been approved by the Zoning Inspector, together with
such improvement location permit as may be granted. All dimensions shown on
those plans shall be based on actual survey. The lot and the location of the
building thereon shall be staked out on the ground before construction is
started.
   (B)   In every case where the lot is not provided and is not proposed to be
provided with public water supply and/or the disposal of sanitary wastes by
means of public sewers, the application shall be accompanied by a certificate
of approval by the County Health Officer of the proposed method of water supply
and/or disposal of sanitary wastes.
   (C)   Every application shall be accompanied by a certificate of approval by
the County Highway Supervisor that the proposed entrance to the highway meets
all requirements for culvert and side ditch drainage.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.557 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner, lessee or tenant to begin any
excavation or construction, reconstruction extension, conversion or alteration
of any building or structure until an improvement location permit has been
issued by the Zoning Inspector. Such permit shall show that such buildings or
premises or a part thereof, and the proposed use thereof, are in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the Zoning
Inspector to issue such a permit, provided he is satisfied that the structure,
building or premises, and the proposed use thereof, and the proposed methods of
water supply and disposal of sanitary wastes, conform with all of the
requirements of this chapter and the Ordinance for Flood Hazard Areas for Wayne
County, Indiana.
   (B)   An improvement location permit shall be required for any agricultural
structure with an estimated cost of construction of $500 or more.
   (C)   An improvement location permit shall be required for any structures
used as a residence or accessory use.
   (D)   Only one permit will be issued for a residential structure on any
parcel in single ownership.
   (E)   All buildings and structures for any use shall be set back from the
right-of-way the minimum distance as required in the zoning district where the
structure is to be located.
   (F)   No permit for excavation or construction shall be issued by the Zoning
Inspector unless the plans, specifications and the intended use conform to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   (1)   The Zoning Inspector shall act upon all such applications on
which he or she is authorized to act by the provisions of this chapter within
ten days after they are filed in full compliance with all the applicable
requirements.
      (2)   He or she shall either issue an improvement location permit within
said ten days or shall notify the applicant in writing of his or her refusal of
such permit and reasons therefor.
      (3)   Failure to notify the applicant in case if such refusal within said
ten days shall entitle the applicant to a permit, unless the applicant consents
to an extension of time.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. passed 7-1-1997; Ord. 2023-02, passed 4-12-2023)
§ 156.558 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee or tenant to occupy, use or
to permit the use of any structure, building or part thereof, hereafter
created, erected, changed, converted or enlarged, wholly or partly, or of any
land when no building or structure is involved, until a certificate of
occupancy shall have been issued by the Zoning Inspector, after inspection.
Such certificates of occupancy shall show and certify that such building,
structure or premises, or part thereof, and the proposed use thereof are in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter, and all other applicable codes
or ordinance and all conditions and requirements, if any, stipulated by the
Commission or other proper authority.
   (B)   A certificate of occupancy for a building thereafter erected,
constructed, reconstructed, converted or otherwise altered, shall be applied
for coincident with the application for an improvement location permit, and
shall be issued within ten days after the erection or alteration of such
building shall have been completed in conformity with the provisions of this
code.
   (C)   A certificate of occupancy for a change in use of a building, or land
shall be applied for before any such building or land shall be occupied or
used, and a certificate of occupancy shall be issued within ten days after
application has been made provided such use is in conformity with all the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in the
office of the Zoning Inspector, and copies shall be furnished on request to any
person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in land or building affected.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.559 FEES.
   Fees for all original improvement location permits and certificates of
occupancy shall be in accordance with the current recorded fee ordinance, with
the exception that wireless communication facility, wireless communications
facility with wireless support structure or wireless support structure are
exempt from the fee requirement for improvement location permits and
certificates of occupancy.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993; Ord. 2019-012, passed 8-21-2019)
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 156.570 ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARD DIVISIONS.
   (A)   A Board of Zoning Appeals for the county is hereby established in
accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-901 et seq. and all acts new or hereafter
amendatory thereto.
   (B)   The Plan Commission is hereby authorized to create up to an additional
three divisions of the Board by amendment to this chapter. Said amendment shall
specify the number of additional divisions being created and shall specify the
territorial jurisdiction of each division; provided further that, at least one
division shall have concurrent jurisdiction over the entire unincorporated area
where the Zoning Ordinance of the county has jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.571 ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Board shall be composed of five members, all of whom shall be
residents of the county, and reside in the unincorporated area where this
chapter has jurisdiction. The five members shall consist as follows:
      (1)   Three citizen members appointed by the Board of County
Commissioners, of whom one must be a member of the Plan Commission, and two
must not be members of the Plan Commission;
      (2)   One citizen member appointed by the County Council who must not be
a member of the Plan Commission;
      (3)   One citizen member appointed by the Plan Commission, who must be a
member of the Plan Commission, other than the member appointed under division
(A)(1) above;
      (4)   All Board members are eligible for reappointment;
      (5)   Board members shall not hold elective or appointed office, except
as provided above; and
      (6)   If additional Board divisions are created pursuant to division (B)
below, the citizen members who are not selected from the Plan Commission shall
reside within the territory over which their Board division exercises
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Upon the creation of the Board of Zoning Appeals, the members shall be
appointed for the following terms: one for the term of one year; one for a term
of two years; one for a term of three years; and two for a term of four years.
The term shall expire on the first Monday of January of the first, second,
third, or fourth year, respectively, following their appointment. Thereafter,
as their terms expire, each new appointment shall be for a term of four years.
   (C)   If a vacancy occurs among the members of the Board of Zoning Appeals,
the appointing authority shall appoint a member for the unexpired term of the
vacating member. In addition, the appointing authority may appoint an alternate
member to participate with the Board in any hearing or decision in which the
regular member it has appointed has a disqualification. A member of the Board
may not participate in a hearing or decision of that Board concerning a zoning
matter in which he or she has a direct or indirect financial interest. The
Board shall enter in it records:
      (1)   The fact that a regular member has such a disqualification; and
      (2)   The name of the alternate member, if any, who participates in the
hearing or decision in place of the regular member.
   (D)   At the first meeting of each year, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
elect a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson from its members. The Vice-
Chairperson shall have authority to act as Chairperson during the absence or
disability of the Chairperson.
   (E)   A majority of members of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall constitute
a quorum. No action of the Board is official, however, unless authorized by a
majority of the Board.
   (F)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may appoint and fix the compensation of a
secretary and such employees as necessary for the discharge of it duties in
conformity to the compliance with the salaries and compensations theretofore
fixed by the County Council.
   (G)   The Plan Commission shall provide for suitable facilities for holding
of Board of Zoning Appeals hearings, and for the preserving of records,
documents and accounts.
   (H)   The County Council may appropriate funds to carry out the duties of
the Board of Zoning Appeals and the Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the
authority to expend, under regular county procedure for the purposes and
activities authorized herein.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.572 MEETINGS OF THE BOARD.
   Meeting of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and such other times as the Board may determine. All meetings of
the Board shall be open to the public.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.573 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall adopt rules, which may not conflict
with this chapter concerning:
      (1)   The filing of appeals;
      (2)   The application for variances, special exceptions, special uses,
contingent uses and conditional uses;
      (3)   The giving of notice;
      (4)   The conduct of hearings;
      (5)   The determination of whether a variance application is for a
variance of use or for a variance from the development standards (such as
height, bulk or area); and
      (6)   The fixing of dates for hearings by the Board.
   (B)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, keep records of its
examination and other official actions and shall record the vote on all actions
taken. All minutes and records shall be filed in the office of the Board and
shall be public record.
   (C)   Rules adopted by the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be printed and made
available to all applicants and other interested persons.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.574 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall:
   (A)   Hear and determine appeals from and review:
      (1)   Any order, requirement decision or determination made by an
administrative official, hearing officer or staff member under this chapter;
      (2)   Any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an
administrative board or other body, except a Plan Commission in relation to the
enforcement of this chapter; or
      (3)   Any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an
administrative board or other body, except a Plan Commission in relation to the
enforcement of an ordinance adopted under this chapter requiring the
procurement of an improvement location or occupancy permit.
   (B)   In exercising its powers, the Board of Zoning Appeals may reverse or
affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination appealed from as in its opinion ought to be done in the premises
and, to that end, shall have all the powers of the officer or board from whom
the appeal is taken.
   (C)   Permit and authorize exceptions to the district regulations only in
the classes of cases or in particular situations as specified in this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   Approve or deny all special exceptions from the terms of this
chapter, but only in the particular situations specified in this chapter and
only upon a determination in writing that:
         (a)   The special exception is consistent with the spirit, purpose and
intent of this chapter;
         (b)   It will not substantially and permanently injure the appropriate
use of neighboring property; and
         (c)   It will substantially serve the public convenience and welfare.
      (2)   The Board may impose reasonable conditions as a part of its
approval.
   (E)   Hear and determine requests for substitutions or extensions of non-
conforming uses.
   (F)   Approve or deny variances from the development standards such as
height, bulk or area of this chapter. A variance may be approved under this
section only upon a determination in writing that:
      (1)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the community;
      (2)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included in
the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner; and
      (3)   The strict application of the terms of this chapter will result in
practical difficulties in the use of the property.
   (G)   Approve or deny variances of use from the terms of this chapter. The
Board may impose reasonable conditions as a part of its approval. A variance
may be approved under this section only upon a determination in writing that:
      (1)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the community;
      (2)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included in
the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner;
      (3)   The need for the variance arises from some condition peculiar to
the property involved;
      (4)   The strict application of the terms of this chapter will constitute
an unnecessary hardship if applied to the property for which the variance is
sought; and
      (5)   The approval does not interfere substantially with the
Comprehensive Master Plan.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.575 APPEALS TO THE BOARD.
   (A)   An appeal taken from the requirement, decision or determination made
by an administrative official or board, except the Plan Commission, charged
with the enforcement of this chapter shall be filed with the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
   (B)   The appeal shall specify the grounds thereof and shall be filed within
such time and in such form as may be prescribed by the Board’s rules of
procedure.
   (C)   The administrative official, or board from whom the appeal is taken
shall, upon request of the Board of Zoning Appeals, transmit to it all
documents,
plans and papers constituting the record of the action which an appeal was
taken.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.576 HEARING AN APPEAL.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the
hearing of an appeal.
   (B)   Public notice shall be given of the hearing and due notice shall be
given additionally to the interested parties as defined by the Board’s rules of
procedure.
   (C)   At the hearing, any party may appeal in person, by agent or by
attorney.
   (D)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may require the party taking the appeal to
assume the cost of public notice and due notice to interested parties.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.577 STAY OF WORK PENDING DECISION ON APPEAL.
   When an appeal from the decision of an official or board has been taken and
filed with the Board of Zoning Appeals, all proceedings and work on the
premises concerning which the decision was made shall be stayed unless the
official or board from whom the appeal was taken shall certify to the Board of
Zoning Appeals that, by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case proceedings of work
shall not be stayed, except by a restraining order which may be granted the
Board of Zoning Appeals or by the Circuit Court or Superior Court of the
county.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.578 REVIEW BY CERTIORARI.
   (A)   Every decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be subject to
review by certiorari.
   (B)   Any person, or persons, firm or corporation jointly or severally
aggrieved by any decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals, may present to the
circuit or superior courts of Wayne County a petition duly verified, setting
forth that such decision is illegal in whole or in part, and specifying the
grounds of the illegality. The petition shall be presented to the court within
30 days after the date of the decision and the order of the Board of Zoning
Appeals complained of.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of an ordinance violation and shall be subject to a
fine of $25 (no more than $2,500 per violation). Each and every day during
which a violation is permitted to be maintained may be deemed a separate
violation.
      (2)   Enforcement proceedings pursuant to this section shall be brought
in the name of the county by the County Attorney or his or her designate.
      (3)   A person, firm or corporation against whom a judgment is entered
pursuant to this section is liable for costs.
   (B)   The Plan Director may institute a suit for injunction in the County
Circuit Court or Superior Court to restrain an individual or a governmental
unit from violating the provisions of this chapter. The Plan Director may also
institute a suit for a mandatory injunction directing an individual or a
governmental unit to remove a structure erected in violation of the provisions
of this chapter and, if the Zoning Inspector is successful in its suit, the
respondent shall bear the cost of the action.
(Ord. passed 3-10-1993)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   STREET AND PUBLIC WAY VACATIONS
      
II.   NEW ROADS
      
III.   STREET AND ROAD NAME CHANGES
      
IV.   REAL PROPERTY ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL
      
V.   JURISDICTIONAL AREAS
      
VI.   AGREEMENTS
      
VII.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: STREET AND PUBLIC WAY VACATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
             Washington Township; Circle Drive; beginning at the southwest corner of Lot 14 in
             Echo View, a subdivision in the northwest quarter of Section 34, Township 16 North,
      4-16-  12 East; thence east 120 feet; thence south 50 feet; thence west 120 feet; thence
79-1  1979   north 50 feet to the place of beginning; containing 0.303 acre in Washington
             Township and being more particularly described as follows: being 120 feet long, 50
             feet wide, runs in an east and west direction between Lots 14 and 15 in Echo View
             Subdivision in Washington Township, styled as Circle Drive
             Boston Township; Kitchel; approximately one mile in length, 50 feet wide, runs in a
80-9  4-20-  due east and west direction between its junction with State Route 227 and its
      1981   junction with Druley Road, being along the centerline of Section 35, Township 13
             North, Range 1 West, in Boston Township, styled and named Kitchel Road
             Dalton Township; Thornburg Road; being all that part of Thornburg Road,
             approximately 2,300 feet in length, beginning at the easterly right-of-way of New
      5-13-  Indiana State Road Number 1, thence running a southwesterly direction to the
85-2  1985   northerly right-of-way of Charles Road, subject to the right of the state to use
             for highway purposes that portion of Thornburg Road now traversed by the right-of-
             way of New Indiana State Road Number 1, all as shown on the Indiana State Highway
             Plan S-Project Number 606 for New Indiana State Road Number 1
             Harrison Township, Jacksonburg; Sugar Street; beginning at the intersection of the
             south line of Main Cross Street in the Town of Jacksonburg with the east line of
      10-14- Sugar Street and running thence south, along said east line, to the north line of
85-4  1985   South Street; thence west along said north line to the west side of Sugar Street;
             thence north along the west line of Sugar Street to the south line of Main Cross
             Street; thence east to the place of beginning, subject to all easements and
             restrictions
             Perry Township; Beard Road; being all of that part of Beard Road, approximately 900
             feet in length, beginning at the easterly right-of-way of U.S. Highway Number 35,
      10-14- thence running in an easterly direction to the westerly right-of-way of North
85-5  1985   Jacksonburg Road, subject to the right of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad to use
             for railroad purposes that portion of the Beard Road now traversed by the
             Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad right-of-way, and subject to all easements and
             restrictions
             Jefferson Township; Woodward Road; centerline description for vacation of part of
             Woodward Road; being all of the Woodward Road that exists on each side of the
             following described line in parts of the northwest and southwest quarters of
             Section 17, Township 17 North, Range 13 East, in Jefferson Township and being
      5-18-  described as follows: beginning at the northeast corner of the southwest quarter of
87-5  1987   said Section 17 and running thence from said beginning point north 89 degrees 37
             minutes west along the section line dividing the northwest and southwest quarters
             of said Section 17 (assuming the north line of the southeast quarter of said
             Section 17 runs east and west) 1,623.3 feet to a point at an existing gate and 65.5
             feet east of the end of the existing blacktop pavement, being the end point of the
             proposed vacation
             Jefferson Township; Woodward Road; centerline description for vacation of part of
             Woodward Road, being all of the Woodward Road that exists on each side of the
             following described line in parts of the northeast and southeast quarters of
             Section 17, Township 17 North, Range 13 East, in Jefferson Township and being
87-6  5-18-  described as follows: beginning at the northwest corner of the southeast quarter of
      1987   said Section 17 and running thence from said beginning point east, along the
             section line dividing the northeast and southeast quarters of said Section 17
             (assuming said section line runs east and west) 991 feet to a point at an existing
             gate and 49.7 feet west of the end of the existing blacktop pavement, being the end
             point of the proposed vacation
             Abington Alley (2); beginning at the northeast corner of lot 21 in the Town of
             Abington, Abington Township, and running thence in an easterly direction to the
             northwest corner of Lot 22 in said town; thence in a southerly direction along the
             west line of Lots 22, 27 and 34 to the southwest corner of Lot 34 in said town;
             thence in an easterly direction along the south line of Lot 34 to the southeast
             corner of said lot; thence in a southerly direction to the northeast corner of Lot
             39 in said town; thence in a westerly direction along the north line of Lot 39 to
      6-15-  the northwest corner of said lot; running thence in a southerly direction along the
87-10 1987   west line of Lots 39 and 46 to the southwest corner of Lot 46 in said town; thence
             in a westerly direction to the southeast corner of Lot 45 in said town; thence in a
             northerly direction, along the west line of Lots 45 and 40 in said town to the
             northeast corner of Lot 40; thence in a westerly direction along the north line of
             Lot 40 to the northwest corner of said lot; thence in a northerly direction to the
             southwest corner of Lot 33 in said town; thence in a easterly direction, along the
             south line of Lot 33 to the southeast corner of Lot 33; running thence in a
             northerly direction, along the east lines of Lots 33, 28 and 21 to the place of
             beginning, and subject to all easements and restrictions  
             Jefferson Township; Hay Tie; centerline description for vacation of part of an
             abandoned county road, being all of that part of an abandoned county road that did
             exist on each side of the following described line in part of the southwest quarter
             of Section 22, Township 17 North, Range 12 East, and the northwest quarter of
      11-23- Section 27, Township 17 North, Range 12 East in Jefferson Township and being
87-13 1987   described as follows: beginning at the northeast corner of the northwest quarter of
             said Section 27 and running thence from said beginning point west, along the
             section line dividing said Section 22 and Section 27 (assuming said section line
             runs east and west) to the northwest corner of the northwest quarter of said
             Section 27, being the end point of the proposed vacation; subject to the existing
             right-of-way easement of Old State Road One
92-1  4-1-   Wayne Township; Hartman Road
      1992
             (1) Part I; beginning at the northwest corner of the southwest quarter of said
           Section 13 and running thence from said beginning point east, along the existing
             road and section line dividing said northwest and southwest quarters assuming said
             section line runs east and west 1,403 feet to the point of the proposed vacation.
             (2) Part II; beginning at a point in the east line of said northeast quarter 363
           feet north of the southeast corner of said northeast quarter and running thence
             west parallel to the south line of said northeast quarter 1,675.5 feet to the point
             of the proposed vacation
             Jackson Township; Monroe Road; beginning at a point in the east right-of-way line
             of Brick Church Road as established by the State of Indiana in Project I, No. 70-
             5 dated 1963, said beginning point being 1,686.30 feet north 0° 05’ 30” east, along
             the west line of and from the southwest corner of the south half of said fractional
             Section 10; thence 71.60 feet north 89° 45’ 10” east to the point of beginning;
             thence from said beginning point north 89° 41’ 35” east near the centerline of the
      4-1-   pavement of said road 1,147.87 feet to a point in the centerline of said pavement;
92-2  1992   thence north 89° 32’ 28” east near the centerline of said pavement 1,088.19 feet to
             the point of intersection of the centerlines of a curve to the left of said
             pavement; thence north 77° 39’ 57” east near the centerline of said pavement 41.52
             feet to a point, said point being on the northward extension of the property line
             dividing the lands of Howard and Delores Study and Darrell and Deborah Doerstler as
             described in Deed Records Book 421, Page 169, and Book 377, Page 247, in the
             records of the County Recorder, said point also being the beginning point of this
             vacation
             New Garden Township; Hough Road; beginning at a point in the centerline of Hough
             Road, said beginning point being more particularly described as follows: commencing
             at a marked stone found at the northeast corner of the southwest quarter of said
             Section 26 and running thence north 89° 59’ 0” seconds west, along the north line
             of said southwest quarter, 485.50 feet to an iron rod found at the intersection of
      3-24-  the north line of said southwest quarter with the centerline of Hough Road; thence
93-5  1993   south 23° 9’ 5” east along the centerline of said Hough Road, 1,008.55 feet to the
             beginning point of this description, and running thence, from said beginning point;
             south 23° 9’ 5” seconds east, along the centerline of said road, 364.0 feet, more
             or less, to the present west right-of-way of United States Highway Number 27 as
             shown on plans of United States Highway Number 27 F Project Number 402 (10), dated
             1955, and the end of this vacation; this vacation being all the right-of-way on
             each side of the above described centerline of Hough Road
             New Garden Township; North Howard Drive, South Howard Drive, Marilyn Drive;
             beginning at a point on the north line of North Howard Drive, and being the
             southwest corner of Lot Number 12 in Clark’s Acres, as recorded in Plat Book 9,
             page 134, in the office of the County Recorder and running thence south, 50 feet to
             a point on the south  line of said North Howard Drive; thence west along the south
             line of said North Howard Drive, 148.67 feet to a point of curve to the left;
             thence along the south line of said North Howard Drive, and along a 50-foot radius
             curve to the left, a chord which bears south 41° 10’ and 30” west, a chord distance
             of 75.27 feet to the point of tangency of said curve on the east line of said North
             Howard Drive; thence south 7° 39’ 00” east; along the east line of said North
             Howard Drive, 262.47 feet to a point of curve to the left; thence continuing along
             the east line of said North Howard Drive, and along a 50-foot radius curve to the
             left, a chord which bears south 48° 49’ 30” east, a chord distance of 65.84 feet to
             the point of tangency of said curve on the north line of South Howard Drive; thence
             east, along the north line of said South Howard Drive, 665.48 feet to a point of
             curve to the left; thence continuing along the north line of said South Howard
             Drive, and along a 20-foot radius curve to the left, a chord which bears north 43°
             00’ 00” east, a chord distance of 29.26 feet to the point of tangency of said curve
             on the west line of Marilyn Drive; thence north 04° 00’ and 00” west; along the
             west line of said Marilyn Drive, 114.01 feet to a point at the intersection of the
             west line of said Marilyn Drive with the extension of the south line of Howard
             Drive; thence east, along the extension of the south line of said Howard Drive,
             71.57 feet to the point of curve to the left on the south line of said Howard
             Drive; thence along the south line of said Howard Drive, and along a 20-foot radius
             curve to the left, a chord which bears south 43° 00’ 00” west, a chord distance of
             29.26 feet to a point on the east line of said Marilyn Drive; thence south 04° 00’
             and 00” east, along the east line of said Marilyn Drive, 332.77 feet to a point on
             the south line of said Clark’s Acres; thence south 89° 9’ 00” west, along the south
      3-18-  line of said Clark’s Acres, 50.08 feet to the intersection of the south line of
94-4  1994   said Clark’s Acres with the west line of said Marilyn Drive; thence north 04° 0’ 0”
             west, along the west line of said Marilyn Drive, 150.73 feet to a point on the
             south line of said South Howard Drive, and being a point of curve to the left;
             thence along a 20-foot radius curve to the left, and along the south line of said
             South Howard Drive, a chord which bears north 47° 0’ 0” west, a chord distance of
             27.28 feet to a point of tangency of said curve; thence west, along the south line
             of said South Howard Drive, 671.77 feet to a point on west line of North Howard
             Drive, and being a point of curve to the right; thence along the west line of said
             North Howard Drive, and along a 100-foot radius curve to the right, a chord which
             bears north 48° 49’ 30” west, a chord distance of 131.67 feet to a point of
             tangency of said curve on the west line of said North Howard Drive; thence north 7°
             39’ 0” west, along the west line of said North Howard Drive, 262.47 feet to a point
             of curve to the right; thence continuing along the west line of said North Howard
             Drive, and along a 100-foot radius curve to the right, a chord which bears, north
             41° 10’ 30” east, a chord distance of 150.54 feet to a point of tangency of said
             curve on the north line of said North Howard Drive; thence east, along the north
             line of said North Howard Drive, 148.67 feet to the place of beginning; being a
             part of fractional Section 13, Township 17 North, Range 14 East, in New Garden
             Township, Wayne County, Indiana, and being more particularly described as follows:
             being a 50-foot radius cul-de-sac with said 50-foot radius point being located as
             follows: beginning at a point on the north line of North Howard Drive and being the
             southwest corner of Lot Number 12 in Clark’s Acres, as described in Plat Book 9,
             Page 134, in the office of the County Recorder and running thence south 60° west,
             50 feet to the 50-foot radius point of said cul-de-sac, said cul-de-sac being
             described as follows: beginning at a point on the north line of North Howard Drive
             and being the southwest corner of said Lot 12, and running thence south, 50 feet to
             the south line of North Howard Drive at the beginning point of a 50-foot radius
             cul-de-sac arc to the right; thence along said 50-foot radius cul-de-sac arc to the
             right an arc distance of 261.80 feet to the beg inning point of this description
             and the terminus of said cul-de-sac
             Green Township; the following described public way, being a ten- foot wide by 165-
             foot long portion of South Alley, located in the unincorporated community of
             Williamsburg, as shown on the original plat of Williamsburg and recorded on 4-12-
             1859 in the office of the County Recorder at Book 1, Page 405, be vacated,
2011- 9-7-   beginning at the southeast corner of Lot 56; thence south ten feet to the south
005   2011   line of the public way; thence west along the south line of the public way 165
             feet; thence north ten feet to the southwest corner of Lot 56; thence east along
             the south line of Lot 56 165 feet, to the place of the beginning; said vacated
             public way shall be divided as follows: five feet shall be joined to the southern
             edge of Lot 56 and five feet shall be joined to the northern edge of a 0.25-acre
             parcel, also known as 8124 N. Centerville Road, Williamsburg, Indiana 47393
2012- 11-7-  Abington Township
012   2012
             (1) Walnut Street; described as beginning at the southwest corner of Lot 86 and its
             intersection with the east right-of-way of Main Street, a.k.a. Abington Pike, and
             proceeding eastwardly along the north right-of-way line of Walnut Street, 340 feet
             to the southeast corner of Lot 85 and its intersection with the western right-of-
             way line of Water Street; thence southwardly along the extension of the western
           right-of-way line of Water Street, 50 feet to the south right-of-way line of Walnut
             Street; thence westwardly along the south right-of-way line of Walnut Street, 340
             feet to the northwest corner of Lot 95; thence 50 feet in a northerly direction
             along the east right-of-way line of Main Street, a.k.a. Abington Pike, to the
             southwest corner of Lot 86 and the place of beginning; half of the width of said
             vacated street shall be joined to each abutting lot or property
             (2) A portion of a ten-foot wide alley, described as beginning six feet north of
             the southeast corner of Lot 74 along the western edge of said alley and the east
             property line of Lot 74; thence in a southerly direction 138 feet along the western
             edge of said alley and the east property lines of Lots 74, 83 and 86 to the
             southeast corner of Lot 86; thence ten feet in an easterly direction along the
           north right-of-way line of Walnut Street, to the southwest corner of Lot 85; thence
             in a northerly direction 138 feet along the eastern edge of said alley and the west
             property lines of Lots 85, 84 and 73 to a point six feet north of the southwest
             comer of Lot 73, thence in a westerly direction ten feet to a point six feet north
             of the southeast corner of Lot 74, and the place of beginning; half of the width of
             said vacated alley shall be joined to each abutting lot or property
             (3) A portion of a ten-foot wide alley described as beginning at the northeast
             corner of Lot 95; thence in a southerly direction 198 feet along the western edge
             of said alley and east property lines of Lots 95, 98 and 107 to the southeast
             corner of Lot 107; thence ten feet in an easterly direction to the southwest corner
           of Lot 108; thence in a northerly direction 198 feet along the eastern edge of said
             alley and west property lines of Lots 108, 97 and 96 to the northwest comer of Lot
             96; thence ten feet in a westerly direction along the south right-of-way line of
             Walnut Street to the northeast corner of Lot 95 and the place of beginning; half of
             the width of said vacated alley shall be joined to each abutting lot or property
             New Garden Township; the portion of Carlton Avenue within Cumming’s Bros.
             Subdivision Second Addition to be vacated as described: commencing at the northwest
             corner of Lot 37 in Cumming’s Bros. Subdivision Second Addition thence 155 feet,
             south along the west property line of Lot 37, and the east right-of-way line of
             Carlton Avenue, to the projected southwest corner of Lot 37, thence 50 feet west
2014- 11-26- across Carlton Avenue to the projected southeast corner of Lot 73 in the Cummings
006   2014   Bros. Subdivision Third Addition, thence 140 feet north along the east property
             line of Lot 73, and the west right-of-way line of Carlton Avenue, to the northeast
             corner of Lot 73, thence 15 feet north to a point along the west right-of-way line
             of Carlton Avenue, thence 50 feet east across Carlton Avenue, following the north
             line of Cummings Bros. Second Addition, to the northwest corner of Lot 37 and the
             place of beginning
2014- 11-26- New Garden Township
008   2014
             (1) All platted easements that are within an area known as Cumming’s Bros.
             Subdivision, Third Addition, shall be vacated along with the platted public ways,
             consisting of all of Albany Avenue and those portions of Carlton Avenue, Cummings
             Drive and Hampton Drive that are within said subdivision, including the temporary
           culs-de-sac at the western end of Albany Avenue, Cummings Drive and Hampton Drive,
             as shown on the original plat of Cumming’s Bros. Subdivision, Third Addition, and
             recorded in the office of the County Recorder in Book 10, Page 383; half of the
             width of each vacated platted public way shall be joined to each abutting lot or
             property
             (2)  Exceptions:
                (a) With the exception of easements within Lots 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 41.35 feet
             of the east side of Lot 69 and Lots 75 and 76
                (b) With the exception of Timothy Drive
                (c) With the exception of that section of Cummings Drive commencing at the
             southeast corner of Lot 64 thence 50.60 feet, in a southeasterly direction, along
             the eastern border of Cumming’s Bros. Subdivision, Third Addition, to the northeast
           corner of Lot 65, thence 92.42 feet in a westerly direction along the south right-
             of-way line of Cummings Drive, and continuing along said line an additional 78.94
             feet to a point in the south right-of-way line of Cummings Drive, thence 50.60 feet
             in a northerly direction to a point on the north right-of-way line of Cummings
             Drive, thence 6.70 feet in an easterly direction along the north right-of-way line
             of Cummings Drive to the southwest corner of Lot 64, and continuing along said line
             an additional 143.68 feet to the southeast corner of Lot 64 and the place of
             beginning
             Center Township; the county road, located in part of the northwest, northeast,
             southwest and southeast quarters of Section 25, Township 16 North, Range 13 East,
2015- 5-6-   named Jackson Road, (a.k.a. Jackson Lane), commencing immediately north of the
004   2015   intersection of Colvin Road and Willow Grove Road and continuing for 0.38 of a mile
             until terminating; the vacation of said public way shall not vacate any recorded
             easement, any known or unknown easement or any prescriptive utility easement within
             said vacated public way
             Green Township; a portion of an undeveloped, platted public way in the original
             plat of Williamsburg, described as a ten-foot wide alley, beginning at the
             northwest corner of Lot 76 in Milo Cranor’s 2nd Addition to the Town of
             Williamsburg, thence south 143.4 feet, along the west property lines of Lots 76 and
             77, to the southwest corner of Lot 77 in said addition, thence west ten feet along
2016- 4-13-  the projected north right-of-way line of Sycamore Street, to the southeast corner
004   2016   of a 0.20 +/- acre vacant parcel, thence north 143.3 feet to the northeast corner
             of said vacant parcel, thence east ten feet to the place of beginning; the vacation
             of said public way shall not vacate any recorded easement, any known or unknown
             easement or any prescriptive utility easement within said vacated public way; half
             of the width of the vacated, platted, public way would be joined to each abutting
             lot or property
             Green Township; a portion of an undeveloped, platted public way in the original
             plat of Williamsburg, described as a ten-foot wide alley, beginning at the
             northwest corner of Lot 76 in Milo Cranor’s 2nd Addition to the Town of
2017- - -    Williamsburg, thence south 143.4 feet, along the west property lines of Lots 76 and
010   2017   77, to the southwest corner of Lot 77 in said addition, thence west ten feet along
             the projected north right-of-way line of Sycamore Street, to the southeast corner
             of a 0.20 +/- acre vacant parcel, thence north 143.3 feet to the northeast corner
             of said vacant parcel, thence east ten feet to the place of beginning, containing
             0.033 acre, more or less
             Webster Township; two platted public ways located in the unincorporated Town of
             Webster and more specifically described as a 12- foot wide, 109- foot long, north-
             south platted public way extending between Lots 5 and 13 and ending 14.5 feet south
2018- 10-17- of the northeast corner of Lot 4 and 14.5 feet south of the northwest corner of Lot
006   2018   14, also a 12-foot wide, 276-foot long east-west platted public way extending
             between Lots 13 and 14 and Lots 5 and 4; the vacation of said public ways shall not
             vacate any recorded easement, any known or unknown easement or any prescriptive
             utility easement within said vacated public ways; half of the width of the vacated,
             platted public ways will be joined to each abutting lot or property
2020- 11-4-  Vacating two platted alleys in Beeson’s Addition to the unincorporated town of
008   2020   Franklin in Dalton Township.
2021- 12-15- Vacating an unnamed platted public way in the Town of Williamsburg.
012   2021
2022- 1-19-  Vacating part of two platted alleys in the Town of Webster.
001   2022
2022- 11-16- Vacating part of two platted alleys and part of platted N. Cross Street in the Town
008   2022   of Webster.
2022- 11-16- Vacating part of two platted alleys in the Town of Webster.
009   2022
2023- 5-17-  Vacating part of a platted alley in the Town of Williamsburg.
03    2023
            
-1
 
 
   79-1   4-16-1979   Washington Township; Circle Drive; beginning at the
southwest corner of Lot 14 in Echo View, a subdivision in the northwest quarter
of Section 34, Township 16 North, 12 East; thence east 120 feet; thence south
50 feet; thence west 120 feet; thence north 50 feet to the place of beginning;
containing 0.303 acre in Washington Township and being more particularly
described as follows: being 120 feet long, 50 feet wide, runs in an east and
west direction between Lots 14 and 15 in Echo View Subdivision in Washington
Township, styled as Circle Drive
   80-9   4-20-1981   Boston Township; Kitchel; approximately one mile in
length, 50 feet wide, runs in a due east and west direction between its
junction with State Route 227 and its junction with Druley Road, being along
the centerline of Section 35, Township 13 North, Range 1 West, in Boston
Township, styled and named Kitchel Road
   85-2   5-13-1985   Dalton Township; Thornburg Road; being all that part of
Thornburg Road, approximately 2,300 feet in length, beginning at the easterly
right-of-way of New Indiana State Road Number 1, thence running a southwesterly
direction to the northerly right-of-way of Charles Road, subject to the right
of the state to use for highway purposes that portion of Thornburg Road now
traversed by the right-of-way of New Indiana State Road Number 1, all as shown
on the Indiana State Highway Plan S-Project Number 606 for New Indiana State
Road Number 1
   85-4   10-14-1985   Harrison Township, Jacksonburg; Sugar Street; beginning
at the intersection of the south line of Main Cross Street in the Town of
Jacksonburg with the east line of Sugar Street and running thence south, along
said east line, to the north line of South Street; thence west along said north
line to the west side of Sugar Street; thence north along the west line of
Sugar Street to the south line of Main Cross Street; thence east to the place
of beginning, subject to all easements and restrictions
   85-5   10-14-1985   Perry Township; Beard Road; being all of that part of
Beard Road, approximately 900 feet in length, beginning at the easterly right-
of-way of U.S. Highway Number 35, thence running in an easterly direction to
the westerly right-of-way of North Jacksonburg Road, subject to the right of
the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad to use for railroad purposes that portion of
the Beard Road now traversed by the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad right-of-way,
and subject to all easements and restrictions
   87-5   5-18-1987   Jefferson Township; Woodward Road; centerline description
for vacation of part of Woodward Road; being all of the Woodward Road that
exists on each side of the following described line in parts of the northwest
and southwest quarters of Section 17, Township 17 North, Range 13 East, in
Jefferson Township and being described as follows: beginning at the northeast
corner of the southwest quarter of said Section 17 and running thence from said
beginning point north 89 degrees 37 minutes west along the section line
dividing the northwest and southwest quarters of said Section 17 (assuming the
north line of the southeast quarter of said Section 17 runs east and west)
1,623.3 feet to a point at an existing gate and 65.5 feet east of the end of
the existing blacktop pavement, being the end point of the proposed vacation
   87-6   5-18-1987   Jefferson Township; Woodward Road; centerline description
for vacation of part of Woodward Road, being all of the Woodward Road that
exists on each side of the following described line in parts of the northeast
and southeast quarters of Section 17, Township 17 North, Range 13 East, in
Jefferson Township and being described as follows: beginning at the northwest
corner of the southeast quarter of said Section 17 and running thence from said
beginning point east, along the section line dividing the northeast and
southeast quarters of said Section 17 (assuming said section line runs east and
west) 991 feet to a point at an existing gate and 49.7 feet west of the end of
the existing blacktop pavement, being the end point of the proposed vacation
   87-10   6-15-1987   Abington Alley (2); beginning at the northeast corner of
lot 21 in the Town of Abington, Abington Township, and running thence in an
easterly direction to the northwest corner of Lot 22 in said town; thence in a
southerly direction along the west line of Lots 22, 27 and 34 to the
         southwest corner of Lot 34 in said town; thence in an easterly
direction along the south line of Lot 34 to the southeast corner of said lot;
thence in a southerly direction to the northeast corner of Lot 39 in said town;
thence in a westerly direction along the north line of Lot 39 to the northwest
corner of said lot; running thence in a southerly direction along the west line
of Lots 39 and 46 to the southwest corner of Lot 46 in said town; thence in a
westerly direction to the southeast corner of Lot 45 in said town; thence in a
northerly direction, along the west line of Lots 45 and 40 in said town to the
northeast corner of Lot 40; thence in a westerly direction along the north line
of Lot 40 to the northwest corner of said lot; thence in a northerly direction
to the southwest corner of Lot 33 in said town; thence in a easterly direction,
along the south line of Lot 33 to the southeast corner of Lot 33; running
thence in a northerly direction, along the east lines of Lots 33, 28 and 21 to
the place of beginning, and subject to all easements and restrictions
   87-13   11-23-1987   Jefferson Township; Hay Tie; centerline description for
vacation of part of an abandoned county road, being all of that part of an
abandoned county road that did exist on each side of the following described
line in part of the southwest quarter of Section 22, Township 17 North, Range
12 East, and the northwest quarter of Section 27, Township 17 North, Range 12
East in Jefferson Township and being described as follows: beginning at the
northeast corner of the northwest quarter of said Section 27 and running thence
from said beginning point west, along the section line dividing said Section 22
and Section 27 (assuming said section line runs east and west) to the northwest
corner of the northwest quarter of said Section 27, being the end point of the
proposed vacation; subject to the existing right-of-way easement of Old State
Road One
   92-1   4-1-1992   Wayne Township; Hartman Road
         (1) Part I; beginning at the northwest corner of the southwest quarter
of said Section 13 and running thence from said beginning point east, along the
existing road and section line dividing said northwest and southwest quarters
assuming said section line runs east and west 1,403 feet to the point of the
proposed vacation.
         (2) Part II; beginning at a point in the east line of said northeast
quarter 363 feet north of the southeast corner of said northeast quarter and
running thence west parallel to the south line of said northeast quarter
1,675.5 feet to the point of the proposed vacation
   92-2   4-1-1992   Jackson Township; Monroe Road; beginning at a point in the
east right-of-way line of Brick Church Road as established by the State of
Indiana in Project I, No. 70-5 dated 1963, said beginning point being 1,686.30
feet north 0° 05’ 30” east, along the west line of and from the southwest
corner of the south half of said fractional Section 10; thence 71.60 feet north
89° 45’ 10” east to the point of beginning; thence from said beginning point
north 89° 41’ 35” east near the centerline of the pavement of said road
1,147.87 feet to a point in the centerline of said pavement; thence north 89°
32’ 28” east near the centerline of said pavement 1,088.19 feet to the point of
intersection of the centerlines of a curve to the left of said pavement; thence
north 77° 39’ 57” east near the centerline of said pavement 41.52 feet to a
point, said point being on the northward extension of the property line
dividing the lands of Howard and Delores Study and Darrell and Deborah
Doerstler as described in Deed Records Book 421, Page 169, and Book 377, Page
247, in the records of the County Recorder, said point also being the beginning
point of this vacation
   93-5   3-24-1993   New Garden Township; Hough Road; beginning at a point in
the centerline of Hough Road, said beginning point being more particularly
described as follows: commencing at a marked stone found at the northeast
corner of the southwest quarter of said Section 26 and running thence north 89°
59’ 0” seconds west, along the north line of said southwest quarter, 485.50
feet to an iron rod found at the intersection of the north line of said
southwest quarter with the centerline of Hough Road; thence south 23° 9’ 5”
east along the centerline of said Hough Road, 1,008.55 feet to the beginning
point of this description, and running thence, from said beginning point; south
23° 9’ 5” seconds east, along the centerline of said road, 364.0 feet, more or
less, to the present west right-of-way of United States Highway Number 27 as
shown on plans of United States Highway Number 27 F Project Number 402 (10),
dated 1955, and the end of this vacation; this vacation being all the right-of-
way on each side of the above described centerline of Hough Road
   94-4   3-18-1994   New Garden Township; North Howard Drive, South Howard
Drive, Marilyn Drive; beginning at a point on the north line of North Howard
Drive, and being the southwest corner of Lot Number 12 in Clark’s Acres, as
recorded in Plat Book 9, page 134, in the office of the County Recorder and
running thence south, 50 feet to a point on the south
         line of said North Howard Drive; thence west along the south line of
said North Howard Drive, 148.67 feet to a point of curve to the left; thence
along the south line of said North Howard Drive, and along a 50-foot radius
curve to the left, a chord which bears south 41° 10’ and 30” west, a chord
distance of 75.27 feet to the point of tangency of said curve on the east line
of said North Howard Drive; thence south 7° 39’ 00” east; along the east line
of said North Howard Drive, 262.47 feet to a point of curve to the left; thence
continuing along the east line of said North Howard Drive, and along a 50-foot
radius curve to the left, a chord which bears south 48° 49’ 30” east, a chord
distance of 65.84 feet to the point of tangency of said curve on the north line
of South Howard Drive; thence east, along the north line of said South Howard
Drive, 665.48 feet to a point of curve to the left; thence continuing along the
north line of said South Howard Drive, and along a 20- foot radius curve to the
left, a chord which bears north 43° 00’ 00” east, a chord distance of 29.26
feet to the point of tangency of said curve on the west line of Marilyn Drive;
thence north 04° 00’ and 00” west; along the west line of said Marilyn Drive,
114.01 feet to a point at the intersection of the west line of said Marilyn
Drive with the extension of the south line of Howard Drive; thence east, along
the extension of the south line of said Howard Drive, 71.57 feet to the point
of curve to the left on the south line of said Howard Drive; thence along the
south line of said Howard Drive, and along a 20-foot radius curve to the left,
a chord which bears south 43° 00’ 00” west, a chord distance of 29.26 feet to a
point on the east line of said Marilyn Drive; thence south 04° 00’ and 00”
east, along the east line of said Marilyn Drive, 332.77 feet to a point on the
south line of said Clark’s Acres; thence south 89° 9’ 00”
         curve to the right, a chord which bears north 48° 49’ 30” west, a
chord distance of 131.67 feet to a point of tangency of said curve on the west
line of said North Howard Drive; thence north 7° 39’ 0” west, along the west
line of said North Howard Drive, 262.47 feet to a point of curve to the right;
thence continuing along the west line of said North Howard Drive, and along a
100-foot radius curve to the right, a chord which bears, north 41° 10’ 30”
east, a chord distance of 150.54 feet to a point of tangency of said curve on
the north line of said North Howard Drive; thence east, along the north line of
said North Howard Drive, 148.67 feet to the place of beginning; being a part of
fractional Section 13, Township 17 North, Range 14 East, in New Garden
Township, Wayne County, Indiana, and being more particularly described as
follows: being a 50-foot radius cul-de-sac with said 50-foot radius point being
located as follows: beginning at a point on the north line of North Howard
Drive and being the southwest corner of Lot Number 12 in Clark’s Acres, as
described in Plat Book 9, Page 134, in the office of the County Recorder and
running thence south 60° west, 50 feet to the 50-foot radius point of said cul-
de-sac, said cul-de-sac being described as follows: beginning at a point on the
north line of North Howard Drive and being the southwest corner of said Lot 12,
and running thence south, 50 feet to the south line of North Howard Drive at
the beginning point of a 50-foot radius cul-de-sac arc to the right; thence
along said 50-foot radius cul-de-sac arc to the right an arc distance of 261.80
feet to the beg inning point of this description and the terminus of said cul-
de-sac
   2011-005   9-7-2011   Green Township; the following described public way,
being a ten-foot wide by 165-foot long portion of South Alley, located in the
unincorporated community of Williamsburg, as shown on the original plat of
Williamsburg and recorded on 4-12-1859 in the office of the County Recorder at
Book 1, Page 405, be vacated, beginning at the southeast corner of Lot 56;
thence south ten feet to the south line of the public way; thence west along
the south line of the public way 165 feet; thence north ten feet to the
southwest corner of Lot 56; thence east along the south line of Lot 56 165
feet, to the place of the beginning; said vacated public way shall be divided
as follows: five feet shall be joined to the southern edge of Lot 56 and five
feet shall be joined to the northern edge of a 0.25-acre parcel, also known as
8124 N. Centerville Road, Williamsburg, Indiana 47393
   2012-012   11-7-2012   Abington Township
         (1) Walnut Street; described as beginning at the southwest corner of
Lot 86 and its intersection with the east right-of-way of Main Street, a.k.a.
Abington Pike, and proceeding eastwardly along the north right-of-way line of
Walnut Street, 340 feet to the southeast corner of Lot 85 and its intersection
with the western right-of-way line of Water Street; thence southwardly along
the extension of the western right-of-way line of Water Street, 50 feet to the
south right-of-way line of Walnut Street; thence westwardly along the south
right-of-way line of Walnut Street, 340 feet to the northwest corner of Lot 95;
thence 50 feet in a northerly direction along the east right-of-way line of
Main Street, a.k.a. Abington Pike, to the southwest corner of Lot 86 and the
place of beginning; half of the width of said vacated street shall be joined to
each abutting lot or property
         (2) A portion of a ten-foot wide alley, described as beginning six
feet north of the southeast corner of Lot 74 along the western edge of said
alley and the east property line of Lot 74; thence in a southerly direction 138
feet along the western edge of said alley and the east property lines of Lots
74, 83 and 86 to the southeast corner of Lot 86; thence ten feet in an easterly
direction along the north right-of-way line of Walnut Street, to the southwest
corner of Lot 85; thence in a northerly direction 138 feet along the eastern
edge of said alley and the west property lines of Lots 85, 84 and 73 to a point
six feet north of the southwest comer of Lot 73, thence in a westerly direction
ten feet to a point six feet north of the southeast corner of Lot 74, and the
place of beginning; half of the width of said vacated alley shall be joined to
each abutting lot or property
         (3) A portion of a ten-foot wide alley described as beginning at the
northeast corner of Lot 95; thence in a southerly direction 198 feet along the
western edge of said alley and east property lines of Lots 95, 98 and 107 to
the southeast corner of Lot 107; thence ten feet in an easterly direction to
the southwest corner of Lot 108; thence in a northerly direction 198 feet along
the eastern edge of said alley and west property lines of Lots 108, 97 and 96
to the northwest comer of Lot 96; thence ten feet in a westerly direction along
the south right-of-way line of Walnut Street to the northeast corner of Lot 95
and the place of beginning; half of the width of said vacated alley shall be
joined to each abutting lot or property
   2014-006   11-26-2014   New Garden Township; the portion of Carlton Avenue
within Cumming’s Bros. Subdivision Second Addition to be vacated as described:
commencing at the northwest corner of Lot 37 in Cumming’s Bros. Subdivision
Second Addition thence 155 feet, south along the west property line of Lot 37,
and the east right-of-way line of Carlton Avenue, to the projected southwest
corner of Lot 37, thence 50 feet west across Carlton Avenue to the projected
southeast corner of Lot 73 in the Cummings Bros. Subdivision Third Addition,
thence 140 feet north along the east property line of Lot 73, and the west
right-of-way line of Carlton Avenue, to the northeast corner of Lot 73, thence
15 feet north to a point along the west right-of-way line of Carlton Avenue,
thence 50 feet east across Carlton Avenue, following the north line of Cummings
Bros. Second Addition, to the northwest corner of Lot 37 and the place of
beginning
   2014-008   11-26-2014   New Garden Township
         (1) All platted easements that are within an area known as Cumming’s
Bros. Subdivision, Third Addition, shall be vacated along with the platted
public ways, consisting of all of Albany Avenue and those portions of Carlton
Avenue, Cummings Drive and Hampton Drive that are within said subdivision,
including the temporary culs-de-sac at the western end of Albany Avenue,
Cummings Drive and Hampton Drive, as shown on the original plat of Cumming’s
Bros. Subdivision, Third Addition, and recorded in the office of the County
Recorder in Book 10, Page 383; half of the width of each vacated platted public
way shall be joined to each abutting lot or property
         (2) Exceptions:
            (a) With the exception of easements within Lots 64, 65, 66, 67, 68,
41.35 feet of the east side of Lot 69 and Lots 75 and 76
            (b) With the exception of Timothy Drive
            (c) With the exception of that section of Cummings Drive commencing
at the southeast corner of Lot 64 thence 50.60 feet, in a southeasterly
direction, along the eastern border of Cumming’s Bros. Subdivision, Third
Addition, to the northeast corner of Lot 65, thence 92.42 feet in a westerly
direction along the south right-of-way line of Cummings Drive, and continuing
along said line an additional 78.94 feet to a point in the south right-of-way
line of Cummings Drive, thence 50.60 feet in a northerly direction to a point
on the north right-of-way line of Cummings Drive, thence 6.70 feet in an
easterly
            direction along the north right-of-way line of Cummings Drive to
the southwest corner of Lot 64, and continuing along said line an additional
143.68 feet to the southeast corner of Lot 64 and the place of beginning
   2015-004   5-6-2015   Center Township; the county road, located in part of
the northwest, northeast, southwest and southeast quarters of Section 25,
Township 16 North, Range 13 East, named Jackson Road, (a.k.a. Jackson Lane),
commencing immediately north of the intersection of Colvin Road and Willow
Grove Road and continuing for 0.38 of a mile until terminating; the vacation of
said public way shall not vacate any recorded easement, any known or unknown
easement or any prescriptive utility easement within said vacated public way
   2016-004   4-13-2016   Green Township; a portion of an undeveloped, platted
public way in the original plat of Williamsburg, described as a ten-foot wide
alley, beginning at the northwest corner of Lot 76 in Milo Cranor’s 2nd
Addition to the Town of Williamsburg, thence south 143.4 feet, along the west
property lines of Lots 76 and 77, to the southwest corner of Lot 77 in said
addition, thence west ten feet along the projected north right-of-way line of
Sycamore Street, to the southeast corner of a 0.20 +/- acre vacant parcel,
thence north 143.3 feet to the northeast corner of said vacant parcel, thence
east ten feet to the place of beginning; the vacation of said public way shall
not vacate any recorded easement, any known or unknown easement or any
prescriptive utility easement within said vacated public way; half of the width
of the vacated, platted, public way would be joined to each abutting lot or
property
   2017-010   - -2017   Green Township; a portion of an undeveloped, platted
public way in the original plat of Williamsburg, described as a ten-foot wide
alley, beginning at the northwest corner of Lot 76 in Milo Cranor’s 2nd
Addition to the Town of Williamsburg, thence south 143.4 feet, along the west
property lines of Lots 76 and 77, to the southwest corner of Lot 77 in said
addition, thence west ten feet along the projected north right-of-way line of
Sycamore Street, to the southeast corner of a 0.20 +/- acre vacant parcel,
thence north 143.3 feet to the northeast corner of said vacant parcel, thence
east ten feet to the place of beginning, containing 0.033 acre, more or less
   2018-006   10-17-2018   Webster Township; two platted public ways located in
the unincorporated Town of Webster and more specifically described as a 12-foot
wide, 109-foot long, north-south platted public way extending between Lots 5
and 13 and ending 14.5 feet south of the northeast corner of Lot 4 and 14.5
feet south of the northwest corner of Lot 14, also a 12-foot wide, 276-foot
long east-west platted public way extending between Lots 13 and 14 and Lots 5
and 4; the vacation of said public ways shall not vacate any recorded easement,
any known or unknown easement or any prescriptive utility easement within said
vacated public ways; half of the width of the vacated, platted public ways will
be joined to each abutting lot or property
   2020-008   11-4-2020   Vacating two platted alleys in Beeson’s Addition to
the unincorporated town of Franklin in Dalton Township.
   2021-012   12-15-2021   Vacating an unnamed platted public way in the Town
of Williamsburg.
   2022-001   1-19-2022   Vacating part of two platted alleys in the Town of
Webster.
   2022-008   11-16-2022   Vacating part of two platted alleys and part of
platted N. Cross Street in the Town of Webster.
   2022-009   11-16-2022   Vacating part of two platted alleys in the Town of
Webster.
   2023-03   5-17-2023   Vacating part of a platted alley in the Town of
Williamsburg.
TABLE II: NEW ROADS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
71-19         9-8-1971    New road from Baker Road to State Road 1, Jefferson
                          Township
 
TABLE III: STREET AND ROAD NAME CHANGES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./    Date   Description
Res. No. Passed
                Crestwood Road be changed to Shoemaker Lane. Said road is
                located directly north of Shoemaker road and south of Rice
-        2-14-  and Kellam Roads in Center Township, specifically described
         1983   as follows: said road is located in Crestwood Subdivision as
                recorded in Plat Book 8, Page 255, in the County Recorder’s
                office
87-14    1-18-  From Coyne Road to Crawford Road in Washington Township
         1988
87-15    1-18-  From Slaw Hill Road to Holtsclaw Road in Washington Township
         1988
87-16    1-18-  From Haiti Road to Hay Tie Road in Jefferson Township
         1988
87-17    1-18-  (1) From Cain Road from New Indiana State Route to Old
         1988   Indiana State Route to Cheesman Road in Dalton Township
              (2) From Centerville Road North and South to Centerville Road
                in Green, Webster, Center and Abington Townships
              (3) From Dalton Road North and South to Dalton Road in Dalton
                and Jefferson Townships
              (4) From Dalton Road East and West to Massey Road in Dalton
                Township
                (5) From Dehays Road (south part one-mile stretch running
              from N. Jacksonburg Road) to Kinsinger Road in Harrison
                Township
              (6) From E. Cambridge Road (south of State Route 70) to
                Cambridge Road in Jackson Township
              (7) From E. Cambridge Road (north of State Route 70) to
                Treaty Line Road in Jackson and Jefferson Townships
              (8) From East Creek Road to Edgerton Road in New Garden
                Township
              (9) From East Milton Road to Milton Road in Washington
                Township
              (10) From Franklin Road (north from Whitewater Road) to
                Jennings Road in Franklin Township
              (11) From Franklin Road North to Franklin in Dalton and
                Jefferson Townships
              (12) From George Davis Road and George Myers Road to Davis
                Myers Road in Green and New Garden Townships
              (13) From Germantown Road North and Germantown Road South to
                Germantown Road in Harrison, Jackson and Washington Townships
              (14) From Giggy Road (middle part south from Weaver Road) to
                Maudlin Road in Dalton Township
              (15) From Giggy Road (north part from U.S. 35 to county line)
                to Ulrich Road in Dalton Township
              (16) From Hurst Road to Wendel Road in Center Township
              (17) From Jacksonburg Road East to Kepler Road in Harrison
                Township
              (18) From Jacksonburg Road West to Frontage Road in Harrison
                Township
                (19) From Jacksonburg Road North and Jacksonburg Road South
              to Jacksonburg Road in Perry, Harrison, Jefferson and Jackson
                Townships
              (20) From Lindsey Road (north) to Banning Road in Perry
                Township
              (21) From North Bethel Road to Bethel Road in Franklin
                Township
              (22) From North Cart Road to Elliot Road in Franklin Township
              (23) From North Jones Road to Jones Road in Jefferson
                Township
                (24) From Old Road 1 (south) from New Indiana State Route 1
              Northwest to Center Street in Cambridge City to Boyd Road in
                Washington Township
                (25) From Old Road 1 (north) from Dale Avenue in Cambridge
              City north to Franklin Road to Brick Church Road in Jackson
                and Jefferson Townships
                (26) From Old Indiana State Route 1 N. from Sycamore Street
              at Hagerstown corporate limits to East Dalton Road to Lacy
                Road in Jefferson in Dalton Townships
              (27) From U.S. 27 (north) to Hough Road in New Garden
                Township
              (28) From Old U.S. 27 (south) to Esteb Road in Boston
                Township
              (29) From Old U.S. 27 running north from New U.S. 27 to Arba
                Pike to Arba Pike in Wayne Township
              (30) From Old U.S. 27 running northwest between Arba Pike in
                Chester to New U.S. 27 to Martin Road in Wayne Township
                (31) From Old S.R. 38, that part running west between New
              S.R. 38 and Canal Street intersection in Hagerstown in Teetor
                Road in Jefferson Township
                (32) From Old S.R. 38, that part running west from Hagerstown
              limits, turning northwest and ending at New S.R. 38 to
                Turnpike Road in Jefferson Township
                (33) From Round Barn Road North and Round Barn Road South
              Round Barn Road in Green, New Garden, Webster and Center
                Townships
              (34) From Smithfield Road to Pottershop Road in Abington
                Township
              (35) From South Creek Road to Creek Road in Washington
                Township
              (36) From South Jones Road to Stomm Road in Jefferson
                Township
              (37) From Teetor Road, running between Old S.R. 38 and New
                S.R. 38 to Tidewater Road in Jefferson Township
              (38) From unnamed, between Rice and Kellam Roads to Kellam
                Road in Center Township
                (39) From unnamed, approximately one- eighth mile south of
              I.R. 70, east of Old Road 1 to Monroe Road in Jackson
                Township
              (40) From Webster Road (west) and Webster Road (east) to
                Webster Road in Clay and Webster Townships
              (41) From West Boston Road to Boston Road in Boston Township
              (42) From West Cemetery Road to Cemetery Road in Washington
                Township
              (43) From West Creek Road to Lewis Road in Green Township
              (44) From West Grove Road between I.R. 70 and S.R. 38 to Clay
                Road in Clay Township
              (45) From West Highland Road from Whitewater River west to
                Flatley Road to Wayne Road in Wayne and Webster Townships
88-4     4-18-  Clay Road to Sowers Road in Clay Township
         1988
88-8     8-22-  Wright Road to Witaker Drive in Washington Township
         1988
88-9     8-22-  Ferris Road to Neuman Lake Road in Washington Township
         1988
88-10    8-22-  Old S.R. 38 to Hillcrest Road in Webster Township
         1988
88-11    8-22-  Unnamed road, a dead-end road running north off Willow Grove
         19898  and Colvin Road to Jackson Road in Center Township
88-12    8-22-  Unnamed road, running east from Town of Williamsburg to U.S.
         1988   35 to Sycamore Street in Green Township
88-20    11-21- Franklin Road from S.R. 38 to Turnpike Road to Brick Church
         1988   Road in Jefferson Township
88-21    11-21- S.R. 1 between Jones Road and Teetor Road to Woodpecker Road
         1988   in Jefferson Township
2014-007 11-26- Cummings Drive in Cummings Bros. Subdivision, First Addition,
         2014   to Fountain Ridge Court in New Garden Township
         2-25-  Thornburg Road commencing in a northerly direction from the
2015-001 2015   intersection of Indian Trail Road and Thornburg Road to
                Jordan Road in Dalton Township
               
 
 
 
TABLE IV: REAL PROPERTY ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL
Ord./Res. No.  Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.  Date Passed Description
                             Disposing certain property in Franklin (0.15 acre
-                8-13-1973   and 1.70 acres) and Green (four acres) Townships
                             and Richmond (several feet)
-                6-14-1976   Disposing 40.59 acres
-                8-9-1976    Disposing several lots in Richmond
-                1-24-1977   Disposing one lot in Richmond
                             Instructing the Department of Public Buildings to
-                10-12-1982  install a temporary sealing to the east Bowen
                             Building roof by using Visqueen and lathing strips
                             Acquisition of Main Street property (several feet
-                4-1-1983    in several lots), located on East Main Street
                             between Second and Third Streets in Richmond
                             Finding no evidence of ownership in North 17th
                             Street bridge located in Richmond; no county
                             moneys have been expended on said bridge for a
-                6-7-1983    period exceeding 27 years and the concrete
                             structure has no value for salvage; the county
                             transfers and releases any interest in the North
                             17th Street bridge to the City of Richmond
                             Removing and reassigning precincts in the City of
-                1-11-1995   Richmond resulting from annexation; adoption of
                             maps and descriptions; polling places
                             Removing and reassigning precincts in the City of
-                1-25-1995   Richmond resulting from annexation; adoption of
                             maps and descriptions; polling places
                             Establishing precincts in the City of Richmond
-                8-4-1997    resulting from annexation; precinct assignment;
                             adoption of maps and descriptions; polling place
                             accessibility
 
TABLE V: JURISDICTIONAL AREAS
 
Ord./Res. Date Passed Description
No.
                      The following units of government have each requested
                      and been approved for jurisdictional area changes that
-         - -         will give them authorization to be responsible for
                      zoning regulations and enforcement thereof in a two-mile
                      peripheral area contiguous to the existing units’
                      boundaries:
                    (1) Town of Hagerstown (10-27-1975)
                    (2) Town of Centerville (11-15-1977)
                    (3) City of Richmond (7-17-1978)
                    (4) Town of Cambridge City (8-24-1987)
 
TABLE VI: AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
-     9-24-  Approved agreement for participation in the co-operative operation of the
      1973   Region Nine Development Commission
             Lease agreement with Soil Conservation Service for approximately 1,000 square
-     9-14-  feet of office space in the county’s administration building; the term of the
      1981   lease shall be from 10-1-1981 through 9-30-1982; annual rent shall be $6,000 at
             the rate of $500 per month in arrears
             The Board of Commissioners and elected officials are authorized to budget, and
             the County Council is authorized to appropriate funds from the General Fund or
             from other funds to provide membership for the county and for the elected and
             appointed officials and members of the county’s boards, Council, departments or
      7-19-  agencies in local, regional, state and national associations of a civic,
-     1982   educational or governmental nature, which have as their purpose the betterment
             and improvement of county government operations; and the Board of Commissioners
             and elected officials are further authorized to budget and the County Council
             is further authorized to appropriate funds to pay the expenses of duly
             authorized representatives to attend the meetings and functions of
             organizations to which the county belongs
-     8-1-   Acceptance and administration of Community Development Grant Funds;
      1983   establishment; use of funds; document execution; authority
             Authorizing and encouraging the Town of Hagerstown to exercise its
      9-26-  extraterritorial jurisdiction in accordance with I.C. 36-1-4-18 within four
R. -  1983   miles outside the corporation boundaries in order to participate in and
             construct Department of Army Corps of Engineers Whitewater River Section 205
             DPPR Project
             Approval of the ambulance service program provided by Aid Ambulance at
-     12-12- Richmond, Inc., pursuant to and in accordance with the Specifications for
      1988   Emergency Medical and Ambulance Services for the county, as issued by the Board
             of Commissioners on 2-24-1986
             Joining together the Counties of Wayne, Union and Randolph in establishing a
-     6-3-   joint waste management district to be known as the “W.U.R. Solid Waste
      1991   District”; duration; terms; officers and procedures; withdrawal and forfeiture;
             amendments
            
 
TABLE VII: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
68-4          5-13-1968   R-1 to R-2; Jefferson Township
68-5          5-13-1968   R-S to R-2; Center Township
68-11         7-15-1968   R-1 and O-1 to M-2; Wayne Township
68-12         7-15-1968   R-1 and O-1 to M-2; Wayne Township
68-17         9-16-1968   M-2 to R-S; Jefferson Township
68-20         9-16-1968   A-1 to C-2; Center Township
68-19         10-21-1968  R-1 to R-2; Center Township
69-1          3-17-1969   C-3, R-S and R-1 to C-3; Center Township
69-4          5-26-1969   R-2 to C-2; Wayne Township
69-5          4-21-1969   R-1 to C-3; Wayne Township
69-6          4-14-1969   R-1 to C-3; Harrison Township
69-11         10-13-1969  A-1 to R-1; Wayne Township
69-12         11-17-1969  R-S to O-1 and C-2; Wayne Township
69-13         11-17-1969  R-1 to R-S and C-2; Center and Wayne Township
69-15         1-19-1970   A-1 to C-2; Center Township
70-7          6-15-1970   R-1 to A-1; Jackson Township
70-8          6-15-1970   O-1 to C-2; Wayne Township
70-16         9-14-1970   M-2 to A-1; Jefferson Township
70-22         11-23-1970  A-1 to R-2; Wayne Township
70-23         10-19-1970  R-S to O-1; Washington Township
70-26         11-23-1970  M-2 to A-1; Wayne and Webster Townships
70-27         11-23-1970  O-1 to C-2; Wayne Township
70-25         12-7-1970   R-S to R-2; Center Township
71-4          3-15-1971   M-2 to R-2; Wayne Township
71-6          4-19-1971   M-2 to R-2; Wayne Township
71-12         6-14-1971   R-S to C-2; Center Township
71-14         6-14-1971   A-1 to C-2; Harrison Township
71-27         11-15-1971  R-1 to C-1; Abington Township
71-31         12-13-1971  A-1 to C-2; Jackson Township
72-4          2-14-1972   A-1 to C-2; Jackson and Harrison Townships
72-5          4-14-1972   A-1 to C-2; Jackson Township
72-18         9-18-1972   M-1 to R-S; Jackson Township
73-2          2-19-1973   M-2 to C-2; Wayne Township
73-30         11-19-1973  C-2 to C-3; Wayne Township
73-32         4-1-1974    R-2 to C-2; Wayne Township
75-1          2-11-1975   R-1 to M-2; Wayne Township
74-33         4-14-1975   M-2 to A-1; Jefferson Township
75-31         10-13-1975  A-1 to C-3; Webster Township
76-3          3-15-1976   M-2 to R-1; Jackson Township
76-1          4-26-1976   A-1 to C-3; Webster Township
76-6          4-26-1976   C-2 to C-3; Wayne Township
76-8          4-26-1976   R-1 to C-3; Wayne Township
76-16         7-19-1976   R-1 to C-1; Green Township
76-17         9-13-1976   R-1 to C-2; Abington Township
76-27         10-18-1976  A-1 to R-S; Abington Township
76-29         10-18-1976  M-2 to R-1; Wayne Township
77-16         7-18-1977   M-2 to R-1; Wayne Township
78-13         4-17-1978   A-1 to C-2; Wayne Township
78-4          6-19-1978   R-1 to C-2; Wayne Township
79-6          10-15-1979  A-1 to C-3; Center Township
81-2          5-18-1981   A-1 to M-1; Center Township
81-4          5-18-1981   A-1 to C-3; Jackson Township
82-5          11-15-1982  R-1 to R-2; Jackson Township
84-1          2-13-1984   R-1 to C-1; Green Township
90-1          2-19-1990   A-1 to C-2; Center Township
2005-002      2-9-2005    C-2 to C-3
2007-005      5-23-2007   A-1 to A-1CP; Wayne Township
2008-003      4-9-2008    A-1 to M-1
2019-001      2-13-2019            to A-1; New Garden Township
                         
 
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1982 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites                    Code Section
Title II, Art. 12, Ch. 2      32.54
1-1-1-5                       10.04
1-1-1-7                       10.12
1-1-1-8                       10.06
1-1-4-5                       10.05
1-1-5-1                       10.11
1-1-6-1                       10.08
3-11-6-9                      35.04
4-21.5-1-9                    110.01
4-21.5-3-7                    151.16
                              34.62;
5-3-1                         153.04;
                              155.041
5-3-1-1 through 5-3-1-9       153.04
5-14-1.5                      153.04
5-14-1.5-1 through 5-14-1.5-7 153.04
5-14-1.5-5(d)                 33.41;
                              33.44
5-16-11.1-2                   34.61
5-16-11.1-4(a)(4)             34.65
5-22 et seq.                  34.62
5-22-1-1 et seq.              34.60
5-22-2-14                     34.62
5-22-2-28                     34.62
5-22-2-30                     34.64
5-22-3-1                      34.62
5-22-3-4                      34.62
5-22-7                        34.62
5-22-7-2                      34.62
5-22-7-3                      34.62
5-22-7-4                      34.62
5-22-7-5                      34.62
5-22-7-6                      34.62
5-22-7-7                      34.62
5-22-7-8                      34.62
5-22-7-9                      34.62
5-22-7-11                     34.62
5-22-8                        34.62
5-22-9 et seq.                34.62
5-22-9-2                      34.62
5-22-9-4                      34.62
5-22-9-5(a)                   34.62
5-22-9-5(b)                   34.62
5-22-9-6                      34.62
5-22-9-8                      34.62
5-22-10 et seq.               34.62
5-22-10-3                     34.62
5-22-10-4(a)                  34.70
5-22-10-10                    34.62
5-22-15-20.9                  34.68
8-1-32.3-15(c)(1)             50.01;
                              50.02
8-16-3                        35.04
9-9-1.5                       72.09
9-9-5-6                       71.08;
                              71.31
9-13-2-69.7                   70.03
9-13-2-153                    70.02
9-13-2-193                    70.02
9-18.1-14-1                   70.03
9-18.1-14-3                   70.03
9-18.1-14-4                   70.03
9-18.1-14-5                   70.03
9-18.1-14-11                  70.03
9-18.1-14-32                  70.03
9-21-9-0.5                    70.03
9-21-9-2                      70.03
9-25-4-5                      70.03
9-29-11-1                     32.03
9-29-11-1(b)(2)               32.03
10-14-3                       33.21;
                              33.49
10-14-3-1                     33.02
10-14-3-2                     33.02
10-14-3-7                     33.27
10-14-3-10.7(f)               33.27
10-14-3-12                    33.40
10-14-3-17                    33.02;
                              33.05
10-14-3-17(1)                 33.22
10-14-3-17(c)                 33.20
10-14-3-17(d)                 33.20
10-14-3-17(d)(2)(A)           33.21
10-14-3-17(d)(2)(B)           33.21
                              33.02;
10-14-3-17(h)                 33.22;
                              33.23
10-14-3-17(j)(5)              33.44
10-14-3-18(a)                 33.27
10-14-3-22                    33.05;
                              33.44
10-14-3-24                    33.44
10-14-3-26                    33.21
10-14-3-27                    33.02
10-14-3-27(a)                 33.21
10-14-3-27(b)                 33.21
10-14-3-27(c)                 33.21
                              33.02;
10-14-3-29(a)                 33.40;
                              33.41
10-14-3-31                    33.44;
                              33.50
11-12-2-4                     32.53
11-12-5-1 et seq.             32.05
11-12-6                       35.01
13-1-3 to 13-1-37             53.02
13-9.5-2                      51.01
13-18-10                      156.004
14-8-2-125                    156.004
14-8-2-185                    70.03
14-8-2-261                    70.03
14-16-1-1 et seq.             70.03
14-28-1                       143.29
14-28-1-26                    143.29
14-31                         156.004
14-38-1-5                     156.004
15-3-4.6-1                    31.05
16-1-3.8-1, § 1              31.01
16-1-3.8-2                    31.01
16-1-3.8-7                    31.01
16-10-2-3                     156.004
16-18-2-137                   110.01
16-18-3-137                   110.04
16-20-1-14                    110.01
16-20-1-25                    110.06
16-20-1-25(c)                 110.06
16-20-1-26                    110.05
                              36.20;
16-20-1-27                    36.25;
                              110.04
16-20-2-1 et seq.             36.21
16-20-2-16                    110.01
16-20-8                       110.05
16-37-1-9(d)                  36.25
16-41-37-4(1)                 130.99
16-42-1-6                     110.03
16-42-1-13                    110.05
16-42-5                       110.01
16-42-5-23                    110.05
16-42-5-28(g)                 110.06
16-42-5-29                    110.01
16-42-5.2                     110.01
16-42-5.3                     156.004
17-2-72                       150.19
17-2-72-1                     150.15
17-3-14-1                     32.20
18-5-5.5                      150.19
22-9.5-1                      92.03
22-9.5-1 et seq.              92.01
22-9.5-2-2                    92.02
22-9.5-2-3                    92.02
22-9.5-2-4                    92.02
22-9.5-2-8                    92.02
22-9.5-2-9                    92.02
22-9.5-2-11                   92.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.              92.10
22-9.5-3                      92.03
22-9.5-4-1                    92.02
22-9.5-4-8                    92.11
22-9.5-5                      92.02
22-9.5-5-1                    92.03
22-9.5-6                      92.02
22-9.5-6 et seq.              92.11
22-13-2-7                     151.16
22-15.4                       151.04
25-28-5                       151.06
32-1-6-1                      156.004
32-8-31-5                     71.08;
                              71.31
32-23-2-5                     156.412
32-23-4                       156.413
32-24                         33.50
33-14-1-7                     35.02
33-19-5-2                     35.02
33-19-8-5                     35.02
33-19-8-6                     35.02
33-36-2-3(4)                  31.06
34-28-5                       131.99
34-28-5-1                     35.02;
                              110.06
34-28-5-4                     131.99
35-41-1-17                    132.01
35-45-1-3(2)                  90.07
36-1-2-23                     33.27
36-1-3-2                      31.05
36-1-3-8(a)(10)               10.99
36-1-6-3(a)(1)                31.06
36-1-7                        33.27
36-1-24                       156.004
36-2-2                        33.02
36-2-2-4                      11.01
36-2-2-8                      33.41;
                              33.44
36-2-2-8(b)                   33.44 
36-2-4-3                      33.02
36-2-5-3(a)                   33.21
36-2-7-10.1                   34.03
36-2-7-10.1(h)                34.03
36-2-9-18                     36.01
36-2-11-14                    36.01
36-2-13-5.6(f)                32.04
36-5-2-2                      10.15
36-7-1-22                     156.004
36-7-2-8                      156.411
36-7-3-12                     Ch. 153
36-7-4                        155.009
36-7-4-405                    Ch. 153
36-7-4-501 et seq.            156.004
36-7-4-600                    155.037
36-7-4-901 et seq.            156.570
36-7-4-918.2                  156.414
36-7-4-918.5                  156.414
36-7-4-1109                   156.412
36-7-8-1 (part)               150.15
36-7-8-3                      150.15
36-7-8-4 (part)               150.15
36-7-8-9                      151.16
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28    150.31
36-7-9-3                      150.30;
                              150.37
36-7-9-4                      150.35
36-7-9-7                      150.37
36-7-9-14                     150.38
36-7-9-28                     150.39
36-8-3-20                     32.06
36-8-10-1                     32.20
36-8-10-2                     32.20
36-8-10-3                     32.20
36-8-10-10.6                  32.06
36-9-2-5                      Ch. 153
36-9-14                       35.04
36-9-14.5                     35.04
36-9-15-5                     35.04
36-9-16-2                     35.04
36-9-16-3                     35.04
36-9-28.7                     150.01
36-9-28.7-9(c)                150.01
33-32 et seq.                 31.06
 
 
REFERENCES TO 1982 CODE
1982 Code 2020 Code
1982 Code 2020 Code
11.01     11.01
11.02     11.01
20.01     36.06
20.02     36.06
21.01     36.05
21.02     36.05
21.03     36.05
22.01     34.01
23.01     30.01
23.02     30.02
23.03     30.03
23.04     30.04
23.05     30.05
23.06     30.06
23.07     30.07
23.09     30.08
24.01     35.04
24.02     35.04
24.03     35.04
24.04     35.04
24.05     35.04
24.06     35.04
24.07     35.04
25.01     36.04
25.02     36.04
25.03     36.04
25.04     36.04
25.05     36.04
25.06     36.04
25.07     36.04
25.08     36.04
25.09     36.04
26.01     35.03
26.02     35.03
26.03     35.03
26.04     35.03
27.01     36.03
27.02     36.03
27.03     36.03
27.04     36.03
28.01     36.02
28.02     36.02
28.03     36.02
28.04     36.02
28.05     36.02
29.01     36.01
29.02     36.01
30.01     35.02
30.02     35.02
30.03     35.02
30.04     35.02
35.01     31.05
35.02     31.05
35.03     31.05
36.01     32.50
36.02     32.51
36.03     32.52
36.04     32.53
36.05     32.54
37.01     31.04
37.02     31.04
37.03     31.04
37.04     31.04
38.01     31.03
38.02     31.03
38.03     31.03
38.04     31.03
40.01     32.20
40.02     32.21
41.01     32.06
41.02     32.06
41.03     32.06
41.04     32.06
41.05     32.06
42.01     32.05
42.02     32.05
42.03     32.05
42.04     32.05
42.05     32.05
43.01     32.35
43.02     32.36
43.03     32.37
43.04     32.38
43.05     32.39
44.01     35.01
44.02     35.01
44.03     35.01
44.04     35.01
46.1      32.01
46.2      32.01
46.3      32.01
47.01     71.25
47.02     71.26
47.03     71.27
47.04     71.28
47.05     71.29
47.06     71.30
47.07     71.31
47.08     71.32
47.09     71.33
47.10     71.34
47.11     71.35
47.12     71.36
47.13     71.37
47.14     71.99
50.01     31.02
50.02     31.02
51.01     153.01
51.02     153.02
51.03     153.03
51.04     153.04
51.05     153.05
51.06     153.06
51.07     153.07
52.01     152.01
52.02     152.02
52.03     152.03
52.04     152.04
52.05     152.05
52.06     152.06
52.07     152.07
52.08     152.08
52.09     152.09
55.01     155.001
55.02     155.002
55.03     155.003
55.04     155.004
55.06     155.005
55.10     155.006
55.20     155.020
55.21     155.021
55.22     155.022
55.30     155.035
55.31     155.036
55.32     155.037
55.33     155.038
55.34     155.039
55.35     155.040
55.36     155.041
55.37     155.042
55.40     155.055
55.41     155.056
55.42     155.057
55.43     155.058
55.44     155.059
55.50     155.070
55.51     155.070
55.52     155.071
55.53     155.072
55.54     155.072
55.60     155.085
55.61     155.086
55.62     155.087
55.70     155.100
55.71     155.101
55.72     155.102
55.73     155.103
55.74     155.104
55.75     155.105
55.76     155.106
55.77     155.107
55.100    155.120
55.101    155.121
55.102    155.122
55.103    155.123
55.104    155.124
55.105    155.125
55.106    155.126
55.120    155.140
55.121    155.141
55.122    155.142
55.123    155.143
55.124    155.144
55.125    155.145
55.130    155.160
55.131    155.161
55.132    155.162
55.133    155.163
55.134    155.164
55.140    155.175
55.141    155.176
55.142    155.177
55.143    155.178
55.144    155.179
55.145    155.180
55.146    155.181
55.147    155.182
55.148    155.183
55.149    155.184
55.150    155.185
55.151    155.186
55.152    155.187
55.160    155.007
55.170    155.200
55.171    155.201
55.172    155.202
55.173    155.203
55.181    155.008
55.182    155.008
55.190    155.009
56.01     150.15
56.03     150.16
56.06     150.17
56.07     150.18
56.13     150.19
57.01     150.30
57.02     150.31
57.03     150.32
57.04     150.33
57.05     150.34
57.06     150.35
57.07     150.36
57.08     150.37
57.09     150.38
57.10     150.39
58.01     151.01
58.02     151.02
58.03     151.03
58.04     151.04
58.05     151.05
58.06     151.06
58.07     151.07
58.08     151.08
58.09     151.09
58.10     151.10
58.11     151.11
58.12     151.12
58.13     151.13
58.14     151.14
58.15     151.15
58.16     151.16
58.17     151.17
58.18     151.99
71.01     72.01
71.02     72.02
71.03     72.03
71.04     72.04
71.05     72.05
71.06     72.06
71.07     72.07
71.08     72.08
71.09     Ch. 74, Schd. I
71.10     72.09
72.01     71.01
72.02     71.02
72.03     71.03
72.04     71.04
72.05     71.05
72.06     71.06
72.07     71.07
72.08     71.08
72.09     71.09
72.10     71.10
72.11     71.99
80.01     51.01
80.02     51.02
80.03     51.03
90.01     90.01
90.02     90.02
90.03     90.03
90.04     90.04
90.05     90.05
90.06     90.06
90.99     90.99
91.01     53.01
91.02     53.02
91.03     53.03
91.04     53.04
91.05     53.05
91.06     53.06
91.07     53.07
91.08     53.08
91.09     53.09
91.10     53.10
91.11     53.25—
          52.30
91.12     53.11
91.99     91.99
93.01     111.01
93.02     111.02
93.03     111.03
93.04     111.04
93.05     111.05
93.06     111.06
93.07     111.07
93.99     111.99
94.01     52.01
94.02     52.02
94.03     52.03
94.04     52.04
94.05     52.05
94.06     52.06
94.07     52.07
94.08     52.08
94.09     52.09
94.99     52.99
96.01     91.01
96.02     91.02
96.03     91.03
96.04     91.04
96.05     91.05
96.06     91.06
96.07     91.07
96.08     91.08
96.09     91.09
96.10     91.10
96.11     91.11
96.12     91.12
96.13     91.99
97.01     31.01
97.02     31.01
97.03     31.01
97.04     31.01
98.01     70.02
98.02     70.02
98.03     70.02
98.04     70.02
99.01     70.01
99.02     70.01
123.01    92.01
123.02    92.02
123.03    92.11
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
-            - -         TSO Table V
-            1-18-1965   31.02
                         53.01—
-            1-13-1967   53.11;
                         53.25—
                         53.30; 51.99
-            10-30-1967  153.01—
                         153.07
68-4         5-13-1968   TSO Table VII
68-5         5-13-1968   TSO Table VII
68-11        7-15-1968   TSO Table VII
68-12        7-15-1968   TSO Table VII
68-17        9-16-1968   TSO Table VII
68-20        9-16-1968   TSO Table VII
68-19        10-21-1968  TSO Table VII
69-1         3-17-1969   TSO Table VII
69-6         4-14-1969   TSO Table VII
                         111.01;
-            4-21-1969   111.03;
                         111.04;
                         111.99
69-5         4-21-1969   TSO Table VII
69-4         5-26-1969   TSO Table VII
69-11        10-13-1969  TSO Table VII
69-12        11-17-1969  TSO Table VII
69-13        11-17-1969  TSO Table VII
                         52.01—
-            1-12-1970   52.09;
                         52.99
69-15        1-19-1970   TSO Table VII
70-7         6-15-1970   TSO Table VII
70-8         6-15-1970   TSO Table VII
70-16        9-14-1970   TSO Table VII
70-23        10-19-1970  TSO Table VII
70-22        11-23-1970  TSO Table VII
70-26        11-23-1970  TSO Table VII
70-27        11-23-1970  TSO Table VII
70-25        12-7-1970   TSO Table VII
71-4         3-15-1971   TSO Table VII
71-6         4-19-1971   TSO Table VII
71-12        6-14-1971   TSO Table VII
71-14        6-14-1971   TSO Table VII
-            7-26-1971   32.20;
                         32.21
71-19        9-8-1971    TSO Table II
71-27        11-15-1971  TSO Table VII
71-31        12-13-1971  TSO Table VII
72-4         2-14-1972   TSO Table VII
72-5         4-14-1972   TSO Table VII
                         90.01—
-            8-7-1972    90.06;
                         90.99
72-18        9-18-1972   TSO Table VII
73-2         2-19-1973   TSO Table VII
-            8-13-1973   TSO Table IV
-            9-24-1973   TSO Table VI
73-30        11-19-1973  TSO Table VII
73-32        4-1-1974    TSO Table VII
75-1         2-11-1975   TSO Table VII
74-33        4-14-1975   TSO Table VII
75-31        10-13-1975  TSO Table VII
1976-2       1-26-1976   150.15—
                         150.19
76-3         3-15-1976   TSO Table VII
76-1         4-26-1976   TSO Table VII
76-6         4-26-1976   TSO Table VII
76-8         4-26-1976   TSO Table VII
-            6-14-1976   TSO Table IV
76-16        7-19-1976   TSO Table VII
-            8-9-1976    TSO Table IV
76-17        9-13-1976   TSO Table VII
76-27        10-18-1976  TSO Table VII
76-29        10-18-1976  TSO Table VII
-            1-24-1977   TSO Table IV
77-16        7-18-1977   TSO Table VII
-            3-20-1978   Ch. 73, Schd. I
78-13        4-17-1978   TSO Table VII
78-4         6-19-1978   TSO Table VII
                         72.01—
-            9-25-1978   72.09;
                         Ch. 74, Schd. I
                         53.01—
-            1-22-1979   53.11;
                         53.25—
                         53.30; 51.99
79-1         4-16-1979   TSO Table I
79-6         10-15-1979  TSO Table VII
80-9         4-20-1981   TSO Table I
81-2         5-18-1981   TSO Table VII
81-4         5-18-1981   TSO Table VII
-            9-14-1981   TSO Table VI
-            12-21-1981  11.01
-            7-19-1982   TSO Table VI
-            8-9-1982    34.01
-            10-12-1982  TSO Table IV
-            11-15-1982  31.05
82-5         11-15-1982  TSO Table VII
-            2-14-1983   TSO Table III
-            4-1-1983    TSO Table IV
-            4-11-1983   150.30—
                         150.39
-            6-7-1983    TSO Table IV
-            8-1-1983    TSO Table VI
84-1         2-13-1984   TSO Table VII
-            1-14-1985   153.01—
                         153.07
                         53.01—
-            4-29-1985   53.11;
                         53.25—
                         53.30; 51.99
85-2         5-13-1985   TSO Table I
85-4         10-14-1985  TSO Table I
85-5         10-14-1985  TSO Table I
                         52.04;
                         53.01—
                         53.11;
-            11-17-1986  53.25—
                         53.30;
                         51.99;
                         111.03
                         71.01—
-            12-1-1986   71.10;
                         71.99
                         71.01—
-            12-22-1986  71.10;
                         71.99
-            1-5-1987    32.06
                         151.01—
-            1-6-1987    151.17;
                         151.99
                         111.01;
-            3-23-1987   111.04;
                         111.99
-            4-13-1987   152.01—
                         152.09
87-5         5-18-1987   TSO Table I
87-6         5-18-1987   TSO Table I
87-10        6-15-1987   TSO Table I
87-13        11-23-1987  TSO Table I
87-14        1-18-1988   TSO Table III
87-15        1-18-1988   TSO Table III
87-16        1-18-1988   TSO Table III
87-17        1-18-1988   TSO Table III
-            2-8-1988    32.50—
                         32.54
88-4         4-18-1988   TSO Table III
                         72.01—
-            5-2-1988    72.09;
                         Ch. 74, Schd. I
88-8         8-22-1988   TSO Table III
88-9         8-22-1988   TSO Table III
88-10        8-22-1988   TSO Table III
88-11        8-22-1988   TSO Table III
88-12        8-22-1988   TSO Table III
88-20        11-21-1988  TSO Table III
88-21        11-21-1988  TSO Table III
-            12-12-1988  TSO Table VI
-            12-27-1988  32.05
-            2-13-1989   31.04
-            7-17-1989   30.01—
                         30.08
-            8-7-1989    31.04
-            9-5-1989    32.35—
                         32.39
-            10-23-1989  36.06
-            12-18-1989  36.05
                         90.01—
-            1-8-1990    90.06;
                         90.99
90-1         2-19-1990   TSO Table VII
-            3-5-1990    36.06
-            4-2-1990    35.01
-            5-14-1990   36.04
                         91.01—
-            6-11-1990   91.12;
                         91.99
                         51.01—
-            6-3-1991    51.03;
                         TSO Table VI
-            11-27-1991  31.01
92-1         4-1-1992    TSO Table I
92-2         4-1-1992    TSO Table I
-            4-15-1992   32.01
                         151.01—
-            6-24-1992   151.17;
                         151.99
-            10-28-1992  35.04
-            1-27-1993   35.03
-            2-3-1993    36.06
                         156.001—
                         156.009;
                         156.020—
                         156.024;
                         156.035—
                         156.047;
                         156.060—
                         156.062;
                         156.075—
                         156.081;
                         156.095—
                         156.104;
                         156.115—
                         156.120;
                         156.135;
                         156.136;
                         156.150—
                         156.152;
                         156.165—
                         156.170;
                         156.185—
                         156.190;
                         156.201;
                         156.205—
                         156.209;
                         156.225—
                         156.232;
                         156.245—
                         156.251;
                         156.265—
                         156.272;
                         156.285—
-            3-10-1993   156.291;
                         156.305—
                         156.311;
                         156.325—
                         156.331;
                         156.345—
                         156.351;
                         156.365;
                         156.366;
                         156.380;
                         156.395—
                         156.400;
                         156.415—
                         156.419;
                         156.430—
                         156.434;
                         156.445—
                         156.463;
                         156.475—
                         156.478;
                         156.490;
                         156.491;
                         156.505—
                         156.511;
                         156.525—
                         156.527;
                         156.540—
                         156.542;
                         156.555—
                         156.559;
                         156.570—
                         156.578;
                         156.999
93-5         3-24-1993   TSO Table I
-            5-26-1993   70.02
94-4         3-18-1994   TSO Table I
                         156.004;
                         156.060;
-            12-21-1994  156.075—
                         156.077;
                         156.380;
                         156.509
-            1-11-1995   TSO Table IV
-            1-25-1995   TSO Table IV
-            9-13-1995   36.03
-            6-26-1996   70.01
                         156.345—
-            2-5-1997    156.351;
                         156.509
                         71.25—
-            2-12-1997   71.37;
                         71.99
-            2-19-1997   36.02
                         156.004;
-            7-1-1997    156.077;
                         156.557
-            8-4-1997    TSO Table IV
                         151.01—
-            2-16-1998   151.17;
                         151.99
-            7-27-1998   31.03
                         92.01;
-            9-21-1998   92.02;
                         92.11
-            11-23-1998  31.03
-            4-12-1999   156.120
-            4-21-1999   156.081
-            12-6-1999   111.03
-            9-25-2000   35.02
-            7-24-2001   156.509
                         155.001—
                         155.009;
                         155.020—
                         155.022;
                         155.035—
                         155.042;
                         155.055—
                         155.059;
                         155.070—
                         155.072;
                         155.085—
-            7-25-2001   155.087;
                         155.100—
                         155.107;
                         155.120—
                         155.126;
                         155.140—
                         155.145;
                         155.160—
                         155.164;
                         155.175—
                         155.187;
                         155.200—
                         155.203
                         156.004;
                         156.040;
                         156.078;
                         156.118;
2003-002     3-26-2003   156.168;
                         156.188;
                         156.249;
                         156.269;
                         156.290;
                         156.366
2004-006     12-23-2003  156.345
-            1-21-2004   156.021
2004-010     8-11-2004   156.350
2005-002     2-9-2005    TSO Table VII
                         33.01—
                         33.05;
                         33.20—
2005-007     8-17-2005   33.27;
                         33.40—
                         33.50;
                         33.99
2005-009     - -2005     156.004;
                         156.507
2005-010     9-21-2005   90.07
2006-003     8-2-2006    36.02
2007-004     5-23-2007   156.095—
                         156.104
2007-005     5-23-2007   TSO Table VII
2007-012     9-5-2007    32.03
2008-004     3-12-2008   32.02
2008-003     4-9-2008    TSO Table VII
                         130.01—
2008-012     10-15-2008  130.03;
                         130.99
2009-004     5-6-2009    31.06
2009-005     8-19-2009   31.06
2009-012     11-18-2009  156.004
2009-013     11-18-2009  156.004;
                         156.115
2009-014     11-18-2009  156.080;
                         156.119
2010-008     11-24-2010  131.01;
                         131.99
2011-005     9-7-2011    TSO Table I
                         132.01—
2011-011     10-5-2011   132.05;
                         132.99
2012-012     11-7-2012   TSO Table I
2014-003     8-20-2014   36.20—
                         36.25
2014-006     11-26-2014  TSO Table I
2014-007     11-26-2014  TSO Table III
2014-008     11-26-2014  TSO Table I
2015-001     2-25-2015   TSO Table III
                         156.004;
                         156.075;
                         156.076;
2015-002     3-18-2015   156.079;
                         156.245;
                         156.507;
                         156.527
                         154.01—
                         154.13;
                         154.25—
                         154.32;
2015-003     3-18-2015   154.45;
                         154.46;
                         154.60—
                         154.66;
                         154.99
2015-007     4-15-2015   36.07
2015-004     5-6-2015    TSO Table I
2015-002     5-18-2015   156.165
2015-014     10-28-2015  32.04
2016-004     4-13-2016   TSO Table I
                         156.004;
2016-010     12-7-2016   156.076;
                         156.116;
                         156.507
2017-010     - -2017     TSO Table I
2017-017     10-9-2017   150.01
2018-001     1-10-2018   34.15—
                         34.20 
2018-003     2-21-2018   34.03
2018-006     10-17-2018  TSO Table I
Res. 2019-01 1-2-2019    34.05
2019-001     2-13-2019   TSO Table VII
2019-008     6-12-2019   36.01
2019-010     8-7-2019    70.03
                         156.004;
                         156.075;
                         156.079;
                         156.115;
                         156.119;
                         156.245;
                         156.250;
                         156.265;
                         156.270;
                         156.285;
2019-012     8-21-2019   156.291;
                         156.305;
                         156.311;
                         156.325;
                         156.331;
                         156.345;
                         156.351;
                         156.370—
                         156.375;
                         156.509;
                         156.526;
                         156.559
2020-004     5-13-2020   36.20—
                         36.25
2020-008     11-4-2020   TSO Table I
2021-006     3-3-2021    92.01—
                         92.11
2021-011     9-8-2021    110.01—
                         110.08
2021-012     12-15-2021  TSO Table I
2022-001     1-19-2022   TSO Table I
2022-006     10-1-2022   36.20—
                         36.26
2022-008     11-16-2022  TSO Table I
2022-009     11-16-2022  TSO Table I
2022-013     12-28-2022  34.60—
                         34.70
2023-01      4-12-2023   156.405—
                         156.414
                         156.004;
                         156.037;
                         156.038;
                         156.075;
                         156.077—
                         156.081;
                         156.115;
                         156.117—
                         156.119;
                         156.151;
                         156.165;
                         156.167;
                         156.207;
                         156.265;
2023-02      4-12-2023   156.285;
                         156.289;
                         156.307;
                         156.309;
                         156.327;
                         156.347;
                         156.349;
                         156.366;
                         156.420—
                         156.422;
                         156.431;
                         156.432;
                         156.434;
                         156.509;
                         156.510;
                         156.557
2023-03      5-17-2023   TSO Table I
                         155.085;
2023-006     7-26-2023   155.104;
                         155.107
 
 
