WEST TERRE HAUTE, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ordinance 12-2015, passed 10-13-2015
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
OFFICIALS
of the
TOWN OF WEST TERRE HAUTE, INDIANA
Scott McClain - President
Sheila Boatman - Vice President
Nate Bartlett - Council Member
James (Jim) R. Mann - Clerk-Treasurer
Jim W. (Bud) Griffin - Council Member
Shane R. Smith - Council Member
Chuck Strahahan - Council Member
Nicole (Nikki) Seckinger-Keith - Clerk-Treasurer
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Town of West Terre
Haute Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances”
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05  RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk- Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Vigo County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. The Town of West Terre Haute, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06  SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12  LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11:  TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Boundaries
§ 11.01  BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The territory of the Town of West Terre Haute, Vigo County, Indiana,
be and the same hereby is redistricted and divided into three wards, numbered
from one to three inclusive, and that each of the wards shall be bounded as
follows:
      (1)   Boundaries of First Ward shall be all that territory within the
corporate limits north of a middle line National Avenue running east and west;
      (2)   Boundaries of Second Ward shall be all that territory within the
corporate limits lying south of a middle line of National Avenue and north of a
middle line of Edwards Street running east and west; and
      (3)   Boundaries of Third Ward shall be all that territory with the
corporate limits lying south of a middle line of Edwards Street running east
and west.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby determines and declares that this chapter is
the restatement and re-enactment of General Ord. 2 adopted by the Council on
March 10, 1953.
(Ord. 1, passed - -)
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
32.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
33.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   FINANCE
      
35.   TOWN POLICIES
      
36.   TOWN EMPLOYEES
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Home Rule
   
30.02   Participation in the National Flood Insurance Program
§ 30.01  HOME RULE.
   (A)   The town, by and through its Council, may exercise any power or
perform any function necessary to the public interest in the conduct of its
town or internal affairs, which is not prohibited by the State Constitution or
the United States Constitution, or denied or preempted by any other law or is
not vested by any other law in a town, county or state entity, special purpose
district or municipal or school corporation.
   (B)   The Council shall support all actions, projects and programs in the
public interest of the citizens of the town, if those actions, projects and
programs are authorized under Home Rule powers or the performance of those
functions is reasonable and practical under the circumstances, and if the
financial support for them is forthcoming from the Town Council.
§ 30.02  PARTICIPATION IN THE NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM.
   The Town Council hereby:
   (A)   Assures the Federal Insurance Administration that it will enact as
necessary and maintain in force in those areas having flood, mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow) or flood-related erosion hazards, adequate land use and control
measures with effective enforcement provisions consistent with the criteria set
forth in the National Flood Insurance Program Regulations 44 C.F.R. §§ 59 et
seq.; and
   (B)   Vests the County Area Plan Commission with the responsibility,
authority and means to:
      (1)   Assist the Administrator, at his or her request, in the delineation
of the limits of the area having special flood, mudslide or flood-related
erosion hazards;
      (2)   Provide information the Administrator may request concerning
present uses and occupancy of the floodplain, mudslide or flood-related erosion
areas;
      (3)   Cooperate with federal, state and local agencies and private firms
which undertake to study, survey, map and identify floodplain, mudflow or
flood-related erosion areas, and cooperate with neighboring communities with
respect to management of adjoining floodplain, mudslide and/or flood-related
erosion areas in order to prevent aggravation of existing hazards;
      (4)   Submit, on forms provided by the Administrator, an annual report on
the progress made during the past year within the community in the development
and implementation of floodplain management measures; and
      (5)   Upon occurrence, notify the Administrator in writing whenever the
boundaries of the community have been modified by annexation or the community
has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain management regulations for a particular area. Include an accurate
corporate limit map suitable for reproduction, clearly delineating the new
corporate limits or new area for which the community has assumed or
relinquished floodplain management regulatory authority. The community will use
the flood insurance rate map or flood hazard boundary map published for the
community from which land areas were annexed or from that political entity that
previously had regulatory authority until the Administrator provides a map
using the new corporate limits.
   (C)   Appoints the Executive Director of the Area Plan Commission to
maintain for public inspection and to furnish upon request (for determining
flood insurance premium rates), the following information on all new and
substantially improved structures constructed within the identified special
flood hazard area:
      (1)   The actual (as-built) lowest floor (including basement) elevation
in relation to mean sea level;
      (2)   Any certificates of floodproofing;
      (3)   Whether or not a building has a basement; and
      (4)   For all floodproofed structures, the elevation to which the
structure has been floodproofed.
   (D)   Agrees to take such other official action as may be reasonably
necessary to carry out the objectives of the program.
(Res. 12-1, 2012, passed 5-14-2012)
CHAPTER 31:  TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Term of office
   
31.02   Residency required
   
31.03   Powers and duties
   
31.04   President and town executive; Vice-President
Meetings Generally
   
31.15   Open meetings
   
31.16   Executive sessions
   
31.17   Notice of meetings
   
31.18   Agenda
   
31.19   Minutes
   
31.20   Quorum
   
31.21   Clerk-Treasurer; tie-breaking vote
   
31.22   Regular meetings
Meetings; Rules of Procedure
   
31.35   Presiding officer
   
31.36   Quorum for conducting business
   
31.37   Duties of the President
   
31.38   Duties of Council members
   
31.39   Seconding of motions required
   
31.40   Withdrawal of motions
   
31.41   Division of questions
   
31.42   Record of motions
   
31.43   Vote
   
31.44   Precedence of motion
   
31.45   Undebatable motions and exceptions to order
   
31.46   Motion to adjourn
   
31.47   Motion to postpone indefinitely
   
31.48   Motion to amend
   
31.49   Amendments
   
31.50   Reconsideration
   
31.51   Visitors and petitioners
   
31.52   Reports, communications, petitions and the like
   
31.53   Adoption of Robert’s Rules of Order, Revised
   
31.54   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
31.65   Majority vote; when required
   
31.66   Two-thirds vote; when required
   
31.67   Date of adoption; publication
   
31.68   Record of ordinances
   
31.69   Publication of ordinances prescribing penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  TERM OF OFFICE.
   Except as otherwise provided in I.C. 36-5-2-3(b), (c), (d) or (e), the term
of office of a member of the Town Council is four years, beginning at noon
January 1 after the member’s election and continuing until the member’s
successor is elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-2-3(a))
§ 31.02  RESIDENCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A member of the Town Council must reside within:
      (1)   The town as provided in Indiana Constitution, Article 6, § 6; and
      (2)   The district from which the member was elected, if applicable.
   (B)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of a
district forfeits office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (C)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of the
entire town but is elected or selected as a candidate from a district forfeits
office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
§ 31.03  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Council may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold and convey any interest in property for the use of the
town; and
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9)
§ 31.04  PRESIDENT AND TOWN EXECUTIVE; VICE-PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The Town Council shall select one of its members to be its President
for a definite term, which may not exceed his or her term of office as a member
of the Town Council and which will continue until a successor is selected and
qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-2-7)
   (B)   The Town Council shall also select one of its members to serve as
Vice-President for a definite term, which may not exceed his or her term of
office as a member of the Town Council. The Vice-President shall perform those
duties outlined in §
31.37 whenever the President shall be temporarily absent.
   (C)   The Town Council shall select a President and Vice-President pursuant
to this section at its first regular or special meeting in January each year.
Should a vacancy occur in either office during the term, the Town Council shall
select from its membership a replacement who shall serve for the balance of the
unexpired term of the vacated office.
   (D)   If there is no duly selected presiding officer at a meeting described
in this section, the Clerk- Treasurer shall preside, call the roll, determine a
quorum and chair the meeting until such time as the Town Council shall elect a
President from its membership, which shall be the first business in order.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare and subscribe to a certificate for
each duly elected officer of the Town Council indicating the office selected
and the date of such selection. No additional oath shall be required to qualify
for either the office of the President or of the Vice-President.
   (F)   The President of the Town Council selected pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2-
7 and this section is the town executive.
   (G)   Powers of the town executive.
      (1)   In addition to any powers or duties conferred upon the municipal
executive under state law and this code, the town executive may revoke or
suspend any license issued by the town if the person holding the license has
violated the terms or conditions of the license or of the law under which it
was issued.
      (2)   The town executive must have the approval of a majority of the Town
Council before the executive may discharge, reduce in grade under I.C. 36-8-3-
4, or remove a town employee.
MEETINGS GENERALLY
§ 31.15  OPEN MEETINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
31.16, all meetings of the Town Council must be open at all times for the
purpose of permitting members of the public to observe and record them.
   (B)   A secret ballot vote may not be taken at a meeting.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-3(a) and (b))
§ 31.16  EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL. A person:
         (1)   Who is a member of a governing body of a public agency; or
         (2)   Whose tenure and compensation are fixed by law and who executes
an oath.
   (B)   Executive sessions may be held only in the following instances:
      (1)   Where authorized by federal or state statute;
      (2)   For discussion of strategy with respect to any of the following:
         (a)   Collective bargaining;
         (b)   Initiation of litigation or litigation that is either pending or
has been threatened specifically in writing;
         (c)   The implementation of security systems; and
         (d)   1.   The purchase or lease of real property by the Town Council
up to the time a contract or option to purchase or lease is executed by the
parties; and
            2.   However, all such strategy discussions must be necessary for
competitive or bargaining reasons and may not include competitive or bargaining
adversaries.
      (3)   Interviews with industrial or commercial prospects or agents of
industrial or commercial prospects by the Department of Commerce, the State
Development Finance Authority, the Film Commission or the State Business
Modernization and Technology Corporation;
      (4)   To receive information about and interview prospective employees;
      (5)   With respect to any individual over whom the governing body has
jurisdiction:
         (a)   To receive information concerning the individual’s alleged
misconduct; and
         (b)   To discuss, before a determination, the individual’s status as
an employee, a student or an independent contractor who is a physician.
      (6)   For discussion of records classified as confidential by state or
federal statute;
      (7)   To discuss before a placement decision an individual student’s
abilities, past performance, behavior, and needs;
      (8)   To discuss a job performance evaluation of individual employees.
This division (B)(8) does not apply to a discussion of the salary, compensation
or benefits of employees during a budget process;
      (9)   When considering the appointment of a public official, to do the
following:
         (a)   Develop a list of prospective appointees;
         (b)   Consider applications;
         (c)   Make one initial exclusion of prospective appointees from
further consideration; and
         (d) Notwithstanding I.C. 5-14-3-4(b)(12), the Town Council may release
and shall make available for inspection and copying in accordance with I.C. 5-
14-3-3 identifying information concerning prospective appointees not initially
excluded from further consideration. An initial exclusion of prospective
appointees from further consideration may not reduce the number of prospective
appointees to fewer than three unless there are fewer than three prospective
appointees. Interviews of prospective appointees must be conducted at a meeting
that is open to the public.
      (10)   To prepare or score examinations used in issuing licenses,
certificates, permits or registrations under I.C. 25.
   (C)   A final action must be taken at a meeting open to the public.
   (D)   Public notice of executive sessions must state the subject matter by
specific reference to the enumerated instance or instances for which executive
sessions may be held under division (B) above. The requirements stated in §§
31.18 and
31.19 for memoranda and minutes being made available to the public is modified
as to executive sessions in that the memoranda and minutes must identify the
subject matter considered by specific reference to the enumerated instance or
instances for which public notice was given. The Town Council shall certify by
a statement in the memoranda and minutes of the Town Council that no subject
matter was discussed in the executive session other than the subject matter
specified in the public notice.
   (E)   The Town Council may not conduct an executive session during a
meeting, except as otherwise permitted by applicable statute. A meeting may not
be recessed and reconvened with the intent of circumventing this section.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1)
§ 31.17  NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Public notice of the date, time and place of any meetings, executive
sessions, or of any rescheduled or reconvened meeting shall be given at least
48 hours (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays) before the meeting.
This requirement does not apply to reconvened meetings (not including executive
sessions) where announcement of the date, time and place of the reconvened
meeting is made at the original meeting and recorded in the memoranda and
minutes thereof, and there is no change in the agenda.
   (B)   Public notice shall be given by the Town Council by:
      (1)   Posting a copy of the notice at the principal office of the Town
Council, or if no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is to
be held; and
      (2)   Depositing in the United States mail with postage prepaid or by
delivering notice to all news media which deliver by January 1 an annual
written request for such notices for the next succeeding calendar year to the
Town Council.
   (C)   Notice of regular meetings need be given only once each year, except
that an additional notice shall be given where the date, time or place of a
regular meeting or meetings is changed. This division (C) does not apply to
executive sessions.
   (D)   If a meeting is called to deal with an emergency involving actual or
threatened injury to person or property, or actual or threatened disruption of
the governmental activity under the jurisdiction of the Town Council by any
event, then the time requirements of notice under this section shall not apply,
but:
      (1)   News media which have requested notice of meetings must be given
the same notice as is given to the members of the Town Council; and
      (2)   The public must be notified by posting a copy of the notice
according to this section.
   (E)   This section shall not apply where notice by publication is required
by statute, ordinance, rule or regulation.
   (F)   Notice has not been given in accordance with this section if the Town
Council convenes a meeting at a time so unreasonably departing from the time
stated in its public notice that the public is misled or substantially deprived
of the opportunity to attend, observe and record the meeting.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-5)
§ 31.18  AGENDA.
   (A)   The Town Council, when utilizing an agenda, shall post a copy of the
agenda at the entrance to the location of the meeting prior to the meeting. A
rule, regulation, ordinance or other final action adopted by reference to
agenda number or item alone is void.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(a))
   (B)   The agenda of the Town Council regular meeting shall possess the
following elements.
      (1)   The agenda shall describe whether or not the meeting is a regular,
special or adjourned meeting.
      (2)   It shall state the date, day, year and time of the meeting.
      (3)   It shall include the names of the members of the Town Council,
listed in ward order.
   (C)   The agenda of the Town Council regular meeting shall possess the
following orders of business as may be applicable:
      (1)   Opening ceremony or exercises. This item of business may include
posting of colors, pledge of allegiance and any other element that the Town
Council may determine appropriate;
      (2)   Roll call and ascertainment of quorum. This item of business shall
be conducted by a formal roll call conducted by the reading aloud of Town
Council names in ward order. It may be conducted as a silent roll call as well;
      (3)   Action on minutes of previous meeting(s). Minutes shall not be read
aloud before action, unless the Town Council so directs. The Town Council may
approve minutes by general consent;
      (4)   Special orders. This item of business may include such matters as
may require public hearings, administration of oaths of office, special
presentations, matters that require action at a particular meeting, and such
things as may be made special orders as parliamentary practice or the proper
officers may determine appropriate;
      (5)   Communications. This item of business involves the reading of
letters, petitions or memos that may be transmitted to the Town Council and may
include taking action on matters raised in the communications as may be
appropriate or desirable;
      (6)   Receipt of staff reports. This item of business shall include
receipt of the monthly reports from or regarding the activities of the building
and inspection department, the fire department, workplace safety, and such
reports as may from time to time be deemed necessary or desirable;
      (7)   Appointments. This item of business involves the making of
appointments to various boards and commissions as state law or ordinances of
the town may from time to time require. When listing items, the agenda should
distinguish appointments that are made by the town executive from those that
are made by the Town Council as legislative or fiscal body of the town;
      (8)   Unfinished business and general orders. This item of business
involves matters that may have been introduced in a previous meeting but
unfinished and such matters as may be placed before the Town Council for its
consideration, such as ordinances, resolutions, orders and other matters deemed
appropriate under state law, ordinances and parliamentary practice;
      (9)   New business. This item of business is confined to announcements of
intention to bring a future action, or requests for the preparation of
legislative work product for future consideration. No ordinances, resolutions
or orders may be brought before the Town Council without the unanimous vote of
the members present. In no instance may a matter for final action be taken up
under this item of business;
      (10)   Comments from Town Council membership (good of the order). This
item of business is to permit members of the legislative body to offer such
comments, informal observations or remarks that each Councilor may deem
appropriate, desirable or as likely to promote the general welfare, or the good
of the order. Councilors shall be recognized by the presiding officer before
speaking. Councilors may be recognized to speak in ward order with the Town
Council President allowed to speak last;
      (11)   Comments from the public or visitors. This item of business is to
permit persons to address the Town Council. Persons wishing to speak should be
recognized by the presiding officer before speaking. Depending on the nature of
the comments, the Town Council may direct the staff to address the topic or
follow up on matters that may arise from public comments. If necessary, the
matter may be set for action at a future meeting. Persons addressing the Town
Council are requested to limit their presentations to two minutes and
encouraged to avoid repetitious comments;
      (12)   Consideration of accounts payable vouchers. This item of business
is to allow the Town Council to consider and take action on accounts payable
vouchers filed according to the provisions of I.C. 5-11-10 et seq. and I.C. 36-
5-4 et seq.; and
      (13)   Adjournment. At the conclusion of all items of business, the Town
Council President may declare the meeting adjourned or he or she may seek a
motion from the Town Council for adjournment. This item of business should be
understood according to parliamentary authority.
   (D)   The agenda of any Town Council special meeting shall possess the
preceding orders of business as may be applicable.
   (E)   The agenda of any regular or special meeting shall be prepared by the
Clerk-Treasurer. The Town Council President shall review and may approve
matters for placement on the agenda. The agenda prepared according to this
section shall be deemed to be fixed and will not require further action by the
Town Council. The agenda may be amended by a two-thirds vote of the entire Town
Council.
   (F)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to establish filing deadlines for
matters to be placed on the agenda of a particular meeting. The Town Council
shall reserve the authority to modify any deadline except where filing is
governed by law.
§ 31.19  MINUTES.
   (A)   As the meeting progresses, the following memoranda shall be kept:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the meeting;
      (2)   The members of the Town Council recorded as either present or
absent;
      (3)   The general substance of all matters proposed, discussed or
decided;
      (4)   A record of all votes taken, by individual members if there is a
roll call; and
      (5)   Any additional information required under I.C. 5-14-1.5-3.5 or I.C.
5-14-1.5-3.6 or any other statute that authorizes a governing body to conduct a
meeting using an electronic means of communication.
   (B)   The memoranda are to be available within a reasonable period of time
after the meeting for the purpose of informing the public of the Town Council’s
proceedings. The minutes, if any, are to be open for public inspection and
copying.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(b) and (c))
§ 31.20  QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.2)
§ 31.21  CLERK-TREASURER; TIE-BREAKING VOTE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the clerk of the Town Council.
   (B)   Whenever the Town Council has an even number of members for any
reason, the Clerk- Treasurer is an ex officio member for the purpose of casting
the deciding vote to break a tie.
(I.C. 36-5-2-8)
§ 31.22  REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Town Council shall hold
regular (plenary) meetings on the second Monday of each month, which shall
begin at 6:00 p.m. When the second Monday is a holiday, the regular meeting
shall be held on the Tuesday following the second Monday.
   (B)   Town Council regular meetings may be cancelled by a majority vote of
the Town Council or by direction of the Town Council President.
   (C)   Town Council regular meetings may be rescheduled by a two-thirds vote
of the elected members of the Town Council.
   (D)   The Town Council shall have the authority to hold such other regular
meetings, special meetings or study sessions as it may deem necessary or
desirable provided such meetings be held pursuant to I.C. 5-14-1.5 et seq.
MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 31.35  PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Council President shall take the chair at the hour appointed, or to
which the Council shall have adjourned, and shall immediately call the members
to order; whereupon, the Clerk-Treasurer shall proceed to call the roll of
members. If a quorum is present, the Clerk-Treasurer shall so announce, and the
Council shall proceed with the order of business.
§ 31.36  QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire Council, including
the Council President. A quorum shall be necessary to transact the business of
the Town Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the Council shall not thereby stand
adjourned, but the members present shall adjourn or recess the Council by a
majority vote.
§ 31.37  DUTIES OF THE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The President shall serve as the chair, shall preserve order and
decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other members, and
shall decide all questions of order subject to appeal.
   (B)   If the President refuses to allow the Council members to exercise
their right to appeal a decision of the chair, the Council members may consider
and pass upon the matter in spite of the chair’s failure to grant them appeal.
   (C)   The President shall have the power to require the Council room to be
cleared, or to have any disorderly person or persons ejected, in case of any
disturbances or disorderly conduct which prevent the meeting from being
continued in an orderly manner.
§ 31.38  DUTIES OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   While the President is stating the motion, or deciding a point of
order, the members shall be seated and no member shall leave the Council room
during the session without permission from the presiding officer.
   (B)   Every member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion or
seconding the same, shall address the presiding officer and shall not proceed
with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the chair.
   (C)   A member so recognized by the chair shall confine himself or herself
to the question under debate.
   (D)   No member shall speak more than once on the same question, except by
permission of the chair, and then not until every other member desiring to
speak shall have had an opportunity to do so.
   (E)   No member shall speak longer than five minutes at any one time, except
by consent of the chair.
   (F)   While a member is speaking, no member shall hold any private
discussion, nor pass between the speaker and the chair.
   (G)   A member, when called to order by the chair, shall thereupon
discontinue speaking. The order or ruling of the chair shall be binding and
conclusive, subject only to the right to appeal.
   (H)   Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the chair and,
if the appeal is seconded, the member making the appeal may briefly state his
or her reason for the same, and the chair may briefly explain his or her
ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other member shall
participate in the discussion. The chair shall then put the question, “Shall
the decision of the chair be overruled?” Otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   The right of a member to address the Council on a question of personal
privilege shall be
limited to cases in which his or her integrity, character or motives are
assailed, questioned or impugned.
§ 31.39  SECONDING OF MOTIONS REQUIRED.
   No motion shall be put or debated in the Council or in committee unless it
be seconded. When a motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding
officer before debate.
§ 31.40  WITHDRAWAL OF MOTIONS.
   After a resolution or a motion is stated by the President, it shall be
deemed to be in the possession of the Council, but it may be withdrawn by the
maker thereof with or without the consent of the Council member seconding the
motion prior to the call for the vote by the President.
§ 31.41  DIVISION OF QUESTIONS.
   If any question under consideration contains several distinct propositions,
the Council, by a majority vote of the members present, may divide such
questions.
§ 31.42  RECORD OF MOTIONS.
   In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered in the journal, the
name of the member moving and seconding the same shall be entered.
§ 31.43  VOTE.
   (A)   (1)   The ayes and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all
ordinances and on all propositions to create any liability against the town, or
for the expenditure or appropriation of its money, and upon any question and in
all other cases at the request of any member of the Council.
      (2)   When the Clerk-Treasurer has commenced to call the roll of the
Council for the taking of a vote by ayes and nays, all debate on the question
before the Council shall be deemed concluded, and during the taking of the vote
a member shall be permitted to briefly explain his or her vote and shall
respond to the calling of his or her name by the Clerk-Treasurer by answering
“Aye” or “Nay,” as the case may be.
   (B)   (1)   Every Council member present shall vote unless he or she has an
interest in the matter, in which event he or she shall disqualify himself or
herself.
      (2)   If a Council member who has not disqualified himself or herself
does not vote, his or her failure to vote shall, to the extent permitted by
law, be construed as concurring with the majority.
   (C)   The President shall announce the result of the Council’s vote and such
votes shall be entered in the journal of the proceedings.
§ 31.44  PRECEDENCE OF MOTION.
   When a question is before the Council, no motion shall be received, except
as herein specified, and which shall have precedence in the order herein
stated.
   (A)   To fix the time to which to adjourn;
   (B)   To adjourn;
   (C)   To take a recess;
   (D)   To raise a question of privilege;
   (E)   To call for the orders of the day;
   (F)   To lay on the table;
   (G)   To call for the previous question;
   (H)   To postpone to a certain time;
   (I)   To refer to committee;
   (J)   To amend;
   (K)   To postpone indefinitely; and
   (L)   To the main motion.
§ 31.45  UNDEBATABLE MOTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS TO ORDER.
   The motion to adjourn or to lay on the table shall be decided without
debate, and the motion to fix the time to which to adjourn and the motion to
adjourn shall always be in order, except:
   (A)   When a member is in possession of the floor;
   (B)   When the roll call votes are being called;
   (C)   While the members are voting;
   (D)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; and
   (E)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
§ 31.46  MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn cannot be amended; but a motion to adjourn to a given
day or time shall be open to amendment and debate.
§ 31.47  MOTION TO POSTPONE INDEFINITELY.
   When a question is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be taken up again
before the next regular meeting.
§ 31.48  MOTION TO AMEND.
   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but a motion to amend an
amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
§ 31.49  AMENDMENTS.
   Only one amendment at a time may be offered to any question before the
Council. The vote shall first be taken on the amendment and, if the amendment
passes, then further amendments may be proposed. Finally, a vote shall be taken
on the principal motion as finally amended.
§ 31.50  RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   (1)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the
same meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration, once having been made and decided in the negative, shall not
be renewed. A matter once having been decided and a motion to reconsider such
matter having been defeated, it may nonetheless come before the Council at a
future time by way of a motion to rescind or as a new motion.
      (2)   If the chair determines that new facts are to be presented to the
Council, or that there is a likelihood that the Council will reverse its
previous decision, the chair shall rule the motion in order.
      (3)   If a motion is continuously brought before the Council and
rejected, the chair may rule its reintroduction under a motion to rescind or as
a new motion to be out of order.
   (B)   No motion to reconsider the approval or denial of the recommendation
of an advisory body required to hold public hearings shall be entertained
except at the same meeting at which the original action was taken or after the
matter has been referred to the advisory body for a further hearing and
recommendation.
   (C)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who voted
on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless otherwise
provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received a majority
vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground that a
greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the passage or
adoption of such motion, then in such case a motion to reconsider may be made
and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on such question to be
reconsidered, so long as the issue presented is the same, no new information is
forthcoming, and the rights of third parties have not intervened.
§ 31.51  VISITORS AND PETITIONERS.
   Except during the time allotted for public discussion and comments, no
person, other than a member of the Council, shall address that body, except
with the consent of a majority of the members present.
§ 31.52  REPORTS, COMMUNICATIONS, PETITIONS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   All communications, reports, petitions or any other papers addressed
to the Council shall be made available to the Clerk-Treasurer prior to the
meeting.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall endeavor to distribute copies or read such
material to the members of the Council.
§ 31.53  ADOPTION OF ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER, REVISED.
   The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in the published edition of
Robert’s Rules of Order, newly revised Eleventh Edition, shall govern the
Council in all cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not
inconsistent with the ordinances of the town including these rules, or the
statutes of the state.
§ 31.54  TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF RULES; AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   The rules of the Council may be temporarily suspended, altered or amended,
by concurrence of a majority vote of all the Council members then in office.
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 31.65  MAJORITY VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a majority vote means at least a majority vote of all
the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(a))
   (B)   A majority vote of the Town Council is required to pass an ordinance
unless a greater vote is required by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.6)
§ 31.66  TWO-THIRDS VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a two-thirds vote means at least a two-thirds vote of
all the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(b))
   (B)   A two-thirds vote of all the elected members, after unanimous consent
of the members present to consider the ordinance, is required to pass an
ordinance of the Town Council on the same day or at the same meeting at which
it is introduced.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A zoning ordinance or an amendment to a zoning ordinance adopted
under I.C. 36-7; and
      (2)   An ordinance to increase the number of Town Council members adopted
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.2, unless the ordinance also establishes new legislative
body districts.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.8)
§ 31.67  DATE OF ADOPTION; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   An ordinance, order or resolution passed by the Town Council is
considered adopted when it is signed by the President of Council. If required
by statute, an adopted ordinance, order or resolution must be promulgated or
published before it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty for a violation must, before it
takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-1 unless:
      (1)   It is published under I.C. 36-1-5; or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in:
         (a)   One public place in each district in the town; or
         (b)   A number of public places in the town equal to the number of
Town Council members, if the town has abolished legislative body districts
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.1.
§ 31.68  RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance of the Town Council is
adopted, the Clerk-Treasurer shall record it in a book kept for that purpose.
The record must include:
      (1)   The signature of the President of Council;
      (2)   The attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (3)   The date of each recorded item.
   (B)   The record or a certified copy of it constitutes presumptive evidence
of the adoption of the ordinance.
   (C)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office has the official version of the town
code of ordinances.
§ 31.69  PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES PRESCRIBING PENALTIES.
   (A)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation must,
before it takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-1,
unless:
      (1)   It is published under I.C. 36-5-2-10(c); or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in:
         (a)   One  public place in the town; or
         (b)   A number of public places in the town equal to the number of
Town Council members, if the town has abolished legislative body districts
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.1.
   (B)   Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-2-10(c), if the town publishes any of
its ordinances in book or pamphlet form, no other publication is required. An
ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation takes effect two
weeks after the publication of the book or pamphlet. Publication in book or
pamphlet form, if authorized by the Town Council, constitutes presumptive
evidence:
      (1)   Of the ordinances in the book or pamphlet;
      (2)   Of the date of adoption of the ordinances; and
      (3)   That the ordinances have been properly signed, attested, recorded
and approved.
   (C)   This does not apply to a zoning ordinance or amendment to a zoning
ordinance, or a resolution approving a comprehensive plan, that is adopted
under I.C. 36-7.
   (D)   I.C. 36-5-2-10(e) states that an ordinance increasing a building
permit fee on new development
must:
      (1)   Be published:
         (a)   One time in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1; and
         (b)   Not later than 30 days after the ordinance is adopted by the
legislative body in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1.
      (2)   Delay the implementation of the fee increase for 90 days after the
date the ordinance is published.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10)
CHAPTER 32:  TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Compensation of officers and employees
   
32.02   Benefits generally
   
32.03   Authority of Town Council to reimburse town officials for certain
expenses
   
32.04   Retirement age
   
32.05   Military leaves of absence
   
32.06   Municipal officers and employees bonds
Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.20   Residency requirement
   
32.21   Election; term of office
   
32.22   Powers and duties
   
32.23   Deputies and employees of the Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.24   Office space for the Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.25   Clerk-Treasurer Petty Cash Fund
   
32.26   Clerk-Treasurer Cash Change Fund
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01  COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Officers and employees of the town shall be compensated at a rate as
established by Town Council ordinance from time to time.
§ 32.02  BENEFITS GENERALLY.
   Employee benefits, including, but not limited to, sick leave and vacation,
shall be as determined by ordinance adopted from time to time.
§ 32.03  AUTHORITY OF TOWN COUNCIL TO REIMBURSE TOWN OFFICIALS FOR CERTAIN
EXPENSES.
   The Town Council is hereby authorized to budget and appropriate funds from
the General Fund of the town to pay the expenses of, and to reimburse, town
officials for expenses incurred in promoting the best interests of the town.
Such expenses may include, but not necessarily be limited to, meals,
decorations, memorabilia, awards, expenses incurred in interviewing job
applicants, expenses incurred in promoting industrial, commercial and
residential development, expenses incurred in developing relations with other
units of government, and any other expenses of civic or governmental nature
deemed by the Town Council to be in the interests of the town.
§ 32.04  RETIREMENT AGE.
   (A)   Except where otherwise provided for the purposes of this section, the
term EMPLOYEE shall be defined as any person appointed, employed or retained by
any public office or public body of the town, whether part-time or full-time.
   (B)   The term EMPLOYEE shall not include any person elected by the voters
of the whole town in a special or general election or selected as a pro tempore
appointment, pursuant to I.C. 3-13-11 et seq., or any person appointed by the
municipal executive, the legislative body or the fiscal body to a board,
council or commission of the municipality.
   (C)   Employees shall retire from municipal duty at the age of 75 years, and
the date of such retirement shall be at the end of the municipal fiscal year in
which their seventy-fifth birthday is attained.
   (D)   The Town Council may waive mandatory retirement and grant an extension
of duties for each municipal year, upon making the following determinations:
      (1)   That an employee is deemed physically and mentally able to the
perform the employee’s normal duties; and
      (2)   That granting such waiver and extension is in the best interests of
the town.
§ 32.05  MILITARY LEAVES OF ABSENCE.
   (A)   All full-time, non-seasonal employees of the town, who are members of
the Indiana National Guard, the reserve components, the retired personnel of
the naval, air or ground forces, or a reserve member of the Armed Forces of the
United States, are entitled to leave of absence from their respective duties,
in addition to regular vacation period, without loss of pay for such time as
they are: on state active duty under I.C. 10-16-7-5; on training duties of the
state under order of the Governor as commander in chief; members of any reserve
component under the order of the reserve component authority; or on temporary
military training duties of the United States Armed Forces under orders from
the Department of Defense or the Department of Transportation for consecutive
or non-consecutive periods not to exceed a total of 15 days in any calendar
year.
   (B)   Such a person is required to provide the town with evidence of the
dates of departure and return as soon as practicable prior to departure and
shall be required to furnish the town, upon return, evidence of satisfactory
completion of such training.
§ 32.06  MUNICIPAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES BONDS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by law or expressly indicated otherwise
by ordinance of the unit, the Clerk-Treasurer shall, in the manner prescribed
by I.C. 5-4-1, cause the purchase of a bond in the sum of $30,000 payable to
the town, to be approved by the Town Council President, conditioned upon the
faithful performance of all municipal officers, employees, commission members
and persons acting on behalf of the local government including the municipal
utilities. The premium upon said bond shall be paid from funds of the
municipality.
   (B)   Said bond may be executed with any recognized and responsible surety
company authorized to do business in the state. The bond shall be filed and
recorded in the office of the Recorder of Vigo County, pursuant to I.C. 5-4-1-
5.1.
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 32.20  RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer must reside within the town as provided in Indiana
Constitution Article 6, § 6. The Clerk-Treasurer forfeits office if the Clerk-
Treasurer ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(a))
§ 32.21  ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Election. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected under I.C. 3-10-7 by
the voters of the whole town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-4)
   (B)   Term of office. Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6-3(c) or (d), the
term of office of the Clerk- Treasurer is four years, beginning at noon on
January 1 after election and continuing until a successor is elected and
qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(b))
§ 32.22  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is both the Town Clerk and the Town Fiscal
Officer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-2)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions and take
acknowledgments of instruments required by statute to be acknowledged.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5)
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall do the following:
      (1)   Receive and care for all town money and pay the money out only on
order of the Town Council;
      (2)   Keep accounts showing when and from what sources the Clerk-
Treasurer has received town money and when and to whom the Clerk-Treasurer has
paid out town money;
      (3)   Prescribe payroll and account forms for all town offices;
      (4)   Prescribe the manner in which creditors, officers and employees
shall be paid;
      (5)   Manage the finances and accounts of the town and make investments
of town money;
      (6) Prepare for the Town Council the budget estimates of miscellaneous
revenue, financial statements and the proposed tax rate;
      (7)   Maintain custody of the town seal and the records of the Town
Council;
      (8)   Issue all licenses authorized by statute and collect the fees fixed
by ordinance;
      (9)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Council by attending its meetings and
recording its proceedings;
      (10)   Administer oaths, take depositions and take acknowledgment of
instruments that are required by statute to be acknowledged, without charging a
fee;
      (11)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Court under I.C. 33-35-3-2, if the
judge of the court does not serve as Clerk of the Court or appoint a Clerk of
the Court under I.C. 33-35-3-1; and
      (12)   Perform all other duties prescribed by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-6-6)
§ 32.23  DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES OF THE CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint the number of deputies and employees
needed for the effective operation of the office, with the approval of the Town
Council. The Clerk-Treasurer’s deputies and employees serve at the Clerk-
Treasurer’s pleasure.
   (B)   The town owns utilities and the Clerk- Treasurer is directly
responsible for the billing and collection of that utility’s rates and charges.
The Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint those employees who are also responsible for
that billing and collection. These employees serve at the Clerk-Treasurer’s
pleasure.
(I.C. 36-5-6-7)
   (C)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer may hire or contract with competent
attorneys or legal research assistants on terms the Clerk-Treasurer considers
appropriate.
      (2)   Appropriations for the salaries of attorneys and legal research
assistants employed under this section shall be approved in the annual budget
and must be allocated to the Clerk-Treasurer for the payment of attorneys’ and
legal research assistants’ salaries.
(I.C. 36-5-6-8)
§ 32.24  OFFICE SPACE FOR THE CLERK-TREASURER.
   If office space exists in a building owned or leased by the town, the Town
Council shall provide suitable office space for the Clerk-Treasurer and staff
and records of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5.1)
§ 32.25  CLERK-TREASURER PETTY CASH FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby authorized, created and established a petty cash fund
for use by the office of the Clerk-Treasurer to be known as Clerk-Treasurer
Petty Cash Fund, pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-1-8 et seq.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer and such employees as the Clerk-Treasurer may
designate are permitted to use it to pay small, emergency or exigent items of
operating expense, according to guidelines that the Clerk-Treasurer may
establish, in order to support the duties outlined in and to carry out the
purposes of this chapter:
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer is permitted to establish a Petty Change Fund
in support of this section;
      (2)   Such a Fund must be established by a warrant drawn upon the
appropriate fund in favor of the Clerk-Treasurer, who is the custodian of the
Fund;
      (3)   Each expenditure from the Petty Cash Change Fund shall be supported
by a receipt;
      (4)   The Clerk-Treasurer, as custodian of the Fund, or his or her
designee, shall periodically file a voucher, with all original receipts
totaling the cash claimed expended being attached to it, in support of the
reimbursement of expenditures from the Fund; and
      (5)   Reimbursement must be approved and allowed at any regular or
special meeting of the Town Council or board of jurisdiction and made in the
same manner as is required for other expenditures of the municipality or the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   The Fund shall be established by a warrant drawn from the proper
appropriated or nonappropriated balance of the General Fund, as the Town
Council may direct, in the amount of $50, in support of the establishment of
such a Petty Change Fund:
      (1)   The establishing warrant, and such successive warrants as shall be
necessary to resupply the fund, shall be drawn in favor of the Clerk- Treasurer
who shall convert the warrant to cash; and
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall account for it in the same manner as is
required of other funds of the town.
   (D)   The entire Petty Cash Fund authorized and established pursuant to this
section shall be returned to the General Fund whenever there is a change in the
custodian of the Fund or whenever the purposes of the Fund have substantially
changed or the Fund is no longer needed.
§ 32.26  CLERK-TREASURER CASH CHANGE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby authorized, created and established a cash change fund
for use in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer to be known as the Clerk-
Treasurer Cash Change Fund, pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-1-8 et seq.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer and such employees as the Clerk-Treasurer may
designate are permitted to collect cash revenues at the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer, in order to support the duties outlined in and to carry out the
purposes of the various relevant laws of the state and ordinances of the town
that pertain to the cash change and collection duties of the Clerk-Treasurer
and the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, including, but not limited to, the cash
change transactions related to building and inspections and the utilities
collections:
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer is permitted to establish a Cash Change Fund in
support of this section; and
      (2)   Such a fund must be established by a warrant drawn upon the
appropriate fund in favor of the Clerk-Treasurer, who is the custodian of the
Fund.
   (C)   The Fund shall be established by a warrant drawn from the proper
appropriated or nonappropriated balance of the General Fund or such other
proper fund, as the Town Council and/or board of jurisdiction may direct, in
the amount of $200, in support of the establishment of such a Cash Change Fund:
      (1)   The establishing warrant, and such successive warrants as shall be
necessary to resupply the Fund, shall be drawn in favor of the Clerk- Treasurer
who shall convert the warrant to cash;
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer, and such employees as he or she may designate,
shall use it to make change in the course of performing the duties outlined in
and to carry out the purposes of the various relevant laws of the state and
ordinances of the town that pertain to the cash change and collection duties of
the Clerk-Treasurer and the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, including, but not
limited to, the cash change transactions related to building and inspections
and the utilities collections; and
      (3)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall account for it in the same manner as is
required of other funds of the town.
   (D)   The entire Cash Change Fund authorized and established pursuant to
this section shall be returned to the General Fund or such other proper fund of
origin whenever there is a change in the custodian of the fund.
   (E)   The entire Cash Change Fund authorized and established pursuant to
this section shall be returned to the General Fund or such other proper fund of
the town whenever the purposes of the Fund have substantially changed or the
fund is no longer needed.
CHAPTER 33:  TOWN ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
33.01   Ordinance Violations Bureau
   
33.02   Reserve police unit
   
Appendix A: Schedule
§ 33.01  ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   Establishment. The Town Council may establish, by ordinance or code,
an Ordinance Violations Bureau. 
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
   (B)   Violations Clerk designated.
      (1)   Upon the creation of a bureau, the Town Council shall provide for
the appointment of a Violations Clerk, who may be the Clerk-Treasurer of the
municipality, to be the administrator of the Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
      (2)   If the Town Council does not establish an Ordinance Violations
Bureau under this section, the  Clerk-Treasurer of the town is designated the
Violations Clerk for purposes of this section.
(I.C. 33-36-2-2)
   (C)   Duties of Clerk-Treasurer. In ordinance violation cases, subject to
the schedule prescribed under I.C. 33-36-3 by the Town Council, the Violations
Clerk may accept the following:
      (1)   Written appearances;
      (2)   Waivers of trial;
      (3)   Admissions of violations; and
      (4)   Payment of civil penalties up to a specific dollar amount set forth
in an ordinance adopted by the legislative body, but not more than $250.
(I.C. 33-36-2-3)
   (D)   Schedule of fines.
      (1)   Upon the appointment or designation of the Violations Clerk as
provided by division (A), the Town Council shall designate, by ordinance or
code, a schedule of ordinance and code provisions that are subject to admission
of violation before the Violations Clerk and the amount of civil penalty to be
assessed to a violator who elects to admit a violation under this chapter.
      (2)   Civil penalties shall be paid to, receipted by, and accounted for
by the Clerk under procedures provided for by the State Board of Accounts. 
Payment of civil penalties under this chapter may be made in person, by mail,
or to an agent or agents designated by the Town Council.
(I.C. 33-36-3-1)
   (E)   Right to trial. A person charged with an ordinance or a code violation
is entitled to a trial before a court as provided by law, unless the person
waives the right to trial and enters an admission of the violation with the
Violations Clerk. Upon an admission, the Clerk shall assess and receive from
the violator the amount prescribed by the schedule of civil penalties
established under division (D).
(I.C. 33-36-3-2)
   (F)   Denial; exercise of the right to trial. If a person charged with a
violation wants to exercise the right to trial, the person shall appear before
the Violations Clerk and deny the violation or enter a written denial with the
Clerk.
(I.C. 33-36-3-3)
   (G)   Failure to appear or to satisfy assessed civil penalty; report;
prosecution.
      (1)   If a person does any of the following, then the Violations Clerk
shall report this fact to the official having the responsibility to prosecute
ordinance violation cases for the town:
         (a)   Denies an ordinance or code violation under this section;
         (b)   Fails to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations
Clerk after having entered an admission of violation; or
         (c)   Fails to deny or admit the violation under this section.
      (2)   Proceedings in court against the person shall then be initiated for
the alleged ordinance violation.
(I.C. 33-36-3-5)
   (H)   Court costs fee; admitted violations.
      (1)   An ordinance violation admitted under this chapter does not
constitute a judgment for the purposes of I.C. 33-37.  An ordinance violation
costs fee may not be collected from the defendant under I.C. 33-37-4.
      (2)   An ordinance violation processed under this section may not be
considered for the purposes of I.C. 33-37-7-5 or I.C. 33-37-7-6 when
determining the percentage of ordinance violations prosecuted in certain
courts.
(I.C. 33-36-3-6)
   (I)   Disposition of civil penalties and costs collected. All sums collected
by the Violations Clerk as civil penalties for ordinance violations shall be
accounted for and paid to the town as provided by law.
(I.C. 33-36-3-7)
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of fines, see
Appendix A to this chapter
§ 33.02  RESERVE POLICE UNIT.
   (A)   Reserve police officers are considered volunteers and answerable to
the Chief Executive Officer of the Police Department.
   (B)   Reserve police officers shall be appointed by the Town Council upon
recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer.
   (C)   (1)   The town shall appoint a special police officer, for the purpose
of serving as a school security officer in accordance with I.C. 36-8-3-7.
      (2)   Said special officer is subject to the Police Chief and shall obey
the rules of the Department and the school or corporation to which he or she is
serving.
      (3)   The special officer may not wear a uniform, the design of which is
not easily distinguishable from or which conforms with the respect to the color
design of the State Police, Sheriff’s Patrol of the county, the Town Police
Department or the Terre Haute Police Department.
      (4)   The special officer has the powers, privileges and duties assigned
to him or her by the Town Council and Chief of Police only while fulfilling the
specific responsibilities for which this appointment is made, and include the
power to protect school personnel which on school buses, including school
children, employees and members of the governing body of the school
corporation; and protection of all school corporation property.
      (5)   This special officer shall not be compensated by the town for
services rendered.
(Ord. 15, passed - -; Ord. 14-8-2014, passed 9-8-2014)
APPENDIX A:  SCHEDULE
Violation Code Section Number Ordinance Number Fine
Violation                   Code Section Number Ordinance Number Fine
Abandoned, junk and         Ch. 91              -                $50
inoperable motor vehicles
Bus stop zones              72.35,              2                $5
                            72.36
Checks of title with
Indiana Bureau of Motor     70.02               17-1997          $5
Vehicles; costs
Curfew for the town         130.02,             9                $50
provided and set            130.03
Domesticated animals
prohibited from running at  90.060              -                $25 plus costs
large
Firearms; regulating the    130.01              16               $50
firing of
Health nuisances prohibited Ch. 93              04-02            $100
Noise; regulation of        Ch. 95              18-2000          $25
unreasonably loud
Tables, alleys, machines,
devices and places kept or
maintained for sports or    Ch. 110             11               $50
games regulated, licenced
and restrained
Taxicabs                    Ch. 111             12               $50
Truck parking and loading   72.20               2                $20
restrictions
Unsafe Building Code        Ch. 150             04-01            $100
Weed and vegetation control Ch. 94              04-03            $100
ordinance
 
(Ord. 14-2000, passed - -)
CHAPTER 34:  FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Authorizing electronic funds transfer
Disbursement of Funds
   
34.15   Appropriation required
   
34.16   Issue of warrants
   
34.17   Allowance of claims
   
34.18   Warrants for payment of claims
   
34.19   Payment of compensation to officer or employee prior to vacation leave
   
34.20   Claim payments in advance of allowance
   
34.21   Transfer of funds
Budgets
   
34.35   Preparation of annual budget estimates
   
34.36   Preparation and approval of ordinance fixing tax rate; making annual
appropriations
   
34.37   Increase or decrease of appropriations after approval of ordinance
Town Funds
   
34.50   General Fund
   
34.51   Storm Water Bond and Interest Fund
   
34.52   Debt Service Fund
   
34.53   Storm Water Fund
   
34.54   Storm Water Construction Fund
   
34.55   Operation Pull-Over Fund
   
34.56   Local Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund (LLECEF)
   
34.57   Levee Certification Project Fund
   
34.58   Riverboat Fund
   
34.59   Cable TV Franchise Fund
   
34.60   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund (CCIF)
   
34.61   Economic Development Income Tax (EDIT)
   
34.62   TIF Fund
   
34.63   Local Road and Street (LR&S) Fund
   
34.64   Motor Vehicle Highway Fund (MVH Fund)
   
34.65   Water Works Operating Fund
   
34.66   Water Works Depreciation Fund
   
34.67   Water Works Consumer Deposit Fund
   
34.68   Water Works Construction Fund
   
34.69   Trash Utility Fund
   
34.70   Sewer Operating Fund
   
34.71   Sewer Bond and Interest Fund
   
34.72   Sewer Debt Service Fund
   
34.73   Payroll Clearing Fund
   
34.74   Federal Withholding Fund
   
34.75   FICA/Medicare Fund
   
34.76   State Withholding Fund
   
34.77   PERF - Employee Fund
   
34.78   Group Health Insurance Fund
   
34.79   Garnishment Fund
   
34.80   Reimbursement Fund
   
34.81   Local Withholding Tax Fund
   34.82   PERF - Town Share Due Fund
Cross-reference:
   Clerk-Treasurer Cash Change Fund, see §
32.26
   Clerk-Treasurer Petty Cash Fund, see §
32.25
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01  AUTHORIZING ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER.
   The Town Council does hereby authorize that any and all claims associated
with expenses and business of the town be paid by electronic funds transfer
when convenience dictates.
(Res. 12-3, 2012, passed 7-9-2012)
DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS
§ 34.15  APPROPRIATION REQUIRED.
   Unless a statute provides otherwise, town monies may be disbursed only after
an appropriation made by ordinance of the Town Council and recorded in a book
kept for that purpose by the Town Council.  Each appropriation must be made
from the fund against which the expenses arose.
(I.C. 36-5-4-2)
§ 34.16  ISSUE OF WARRANTS.
   (A)   The Town Council or a board of the town may order the issuance of
warrants for payment of money by the town only at a meeting of the Town Council
or board.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-3)
§ 34.17  ALLOWANCE OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
34.20, the Town Council or a board of the town may allow a claim:
      (1)   Only at a meeting of the Town Council or board; and
      (2)   Only if the claim was filed in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-11-
10-2 at least five days before the meeting.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-4)
§ 34.18  WARRANTS FOR PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a bill or an invoice submitted
for goods or services.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
34.20, a warrant for payment of a claim against a town may be issued only if
the claim is:
      (1)   Supported by a fully itemized invoice or bill under I.C. 5-11-10-
1.6;
      (2)   Filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer;
      (3)   Certified by the Town Clerk-Treasurer before payment that each
invoice is true and correct; and
      (4)   Allowed by the Town Council or by the board of the town having
jurisdiction over allowance of the payment of the claim.
   (C)   The certification by the Town Clerk- Treasurer under division (B)(3)
above must be on a form prescribed by the State Board of Accounts.
(I.C. 36-5-4-6)
§ 34.19  PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION TO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE PRIOR TO VACATION
LEAVE.
   One to three days before the vacation leave period of a town officer or
employee begins, the town may pay him or her the amount of compensation he or
she will earn while he or she is on vacation leave.
(I.C. 36-5-4-7)
§ 34.20  CLAIM PAYMENTS IN ADVANCE OF ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to make claim payments in advance of
Town Council allowance for the following types of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the federal
government or an agency or a political subdivision of the federal government;
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs, if advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party provides sufficient security for the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   The Town Council shall review and allow the claim at the Council’s
next regular or special meeting following the preapproved payment of the
expense.
(I.C. 36-5-4-12)
§ 34.21  TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   Notwithstanding I.C. 8-14-1 and 8-14-2, the town may transfer money
distributed to the town from the motor vehicle highway account under I.C. 8-14-
1; the local road and street account under I.C. 8-14-2; or the motor vehicle
highway account under I.C. 8-14-1 and the local road and street account under
I.C. 8-14-2 to any other town fund after the passage of an ordinance or a
resolution by the Town Council that specifies the amount of the transfer, the
funds involved, the date of the transfer and the general purpose of the
transfer.  However, the total amount of all money transferred by the town under
this section may not exceed $40,000.
(I.C. 36-5-4-13(b))
BUDGETS
§ 34.35  PREPARATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET ESTIMATES.
   Before the publication of notice of budget estimates required by I.C. 6-1.1-
17-3, the town shall formulate a budget estimate for the ensuing budget year in
the following manner, unless the town provides by ordinance for a different
manner:
   (A)   Each department head shall prepare for his or her department an
estimate of the amount of money required for the ensuing budget year, stating
in detail each category and item of expenditure he or she anticipates;
   (B)   The Town Fiscal Officer shall prepare an itemized estimate of revenues
available for the ensuing budget year, and shall prepare an itemized estimate
of expenditures for other purposes above the money proposed to be used by the
departments;
   (C)   The President of Council shall meet with the department heads and the
fiscal officer to review and revise their various estimates; and
   (D)   After the President’s review and revision, the Fiscal Officer shall
prepare for the President a report of the estimated department budgets,
miscellaneous expenses and revenues necessary or available to finance the
estimates.
(I.C. 36-5-3-3)
Cross-reference:
   Compensation of officials and employees, see §
32.01
§ 34.36  PREPARATION AND APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE FIXING TAX RATE; MAKING ANNUAL
APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall present the report of budget estimates to the
Town Council under I.C. 6-1.1-17.  After reviewing the report, the Town Council
shall prepare an ordinance fixing the rate of taxation for the ensuing budget
year and an ordinance making appropriations for the estimated department
budgets and other town purposes during the ensuing budget year.  The Town
Council, in the appropriation ordinance, may change any estimated item from the
figure submitted in the report of the Town Clerk- Treasurer.  The Town Council
shall promptly act on the appropriation ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-4)
§ 34.37  INCREASE OR DECREASE OF APPROPRIATIONS AFTER APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE.
   After the passage of the appropriation ordinance, the Town Council may make
further or additional appropriations by ordinance, unless their result is to
increase the tax levy set under I.C. 6-1.1-17.  The Town Council may, by
ordinance, decrease any appropriation set by ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-5)
TOWN FUNDS
§ 34.50  GENERAL FUND.
   The General Fund shall be established to deposit revenue to be used for any
lawful operating purpose of the town. The Town Council may, by ordinance,
decrease any appropriation set by ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Legislative body may decrease appropriation set by ordinance, see I.C. 36-5-
3-5
§ 34.51  STORM WATER BOND AND INTEREST FUND.
   The Storm Water Bond and Interest Fund shall be established to deposit
revenue for the purpose of the Fund. Expenses from such Fund should be directly
related to the operation of the storm water utility. Expenditures for city and
town operating costs should not be paid from the storm water utility funds.
§ 34.52  DEBT SERVICE FUND.
   The Debt Service Fund shall be established to deposit revenue for the
purpose of the Fund. Expenses from such Fund should be directly related to the
operation of the storm water utility. Expenditures for city and town operating
costs should not be paid from the storm water utility funds.
§ 34.53  STORM WATER FUND.
   The Storm Water Fund shall be established to deposit revenue for the purpose
of the Fund. Expenses from such Fund should be directly related to the
operation of the storm water utility. Expenditures for city and town operating
costs should not be paid from the storm water utility funds.
§ 34.54  STORM WATER CONSTRUCTION FUND.
   The Storm Water Construction Fund shall be established to deposit revenue
for the purpose of the Fund. Expenses from such Fund should be directly related
to the operation of the storm water utility. Expenditures for city and town
operating costs should not be paid from the storm water utility funds.
§ 34.55  OPERATION PULL-OVER FUND.
   The Town Council may appropriate any funds received as a grant from the
state or federal government without using the additional appropriation
procedures under I.C. 6-1.1-18-5, if the funds are provided or designated by
the state or federal government as a reimbursement of expenditures.
Statutory reference:
   Appropriation of state and federal grant funds, see I.C. 6-1.1-18-7.5
§ 34.56  LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT CONTINUING EDUCATION FUND (LLECEF).
   The following types of revenue shall be deposited into the local law
enforcement continuing education fund established under I.C. 5-2-8-2: law
enforcement continuing education fees (I.C. 33-37-5-8); inspection of motor
vehicles fees (I.C. 9-29-4-2); vehicle accident report fees (I. C. 9-29-11-1);
handgun licenses fees (I.C. 35-47-2-3); and proceeds from the sale of
confiscated weapons (I.C. 35-47-3-2). Funds received by the town for this
purpose shall be used for the continuing education and training of law
enforcement officers employed by the town and for equipment and supplies for
law enforcement purposes.
§ 34.57  LEVEE CERTIFICATION PROJECT FUND.
   The Town Council may appropriate any funds received as a grant from the
state or federal government without using the additional appropriation
procedures under I.C. 6-1.1-18-5, if the funds are provided or designated by
the state or federal government as a reimbursement of expenditures.
Statutory reference:
   Appropriation of state and federal grant funds, see I.C. 6-1.1-18-7.5
§ 34.58  RIVERBOAT FUND.
   A Riverboat Fund shall be established to deposit tax revenue in accordance
to I.C. 36-1-8-9 to be used for any legal or corporate purpose of the unit.
(Ord. 2013- , passed 9-9-2013)
§ 34.59  CABLE TV FRANCHISE FUND.
   A Cable TV Franchise Fund shall be established to deposit tax revenue to be
used for any legal or corporate purpose of the town.
(Ord. 2014-1 passed 3-10-2014)
§ 34.60  CUMULATIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND (CCIF).
   (A)   The fiscal body of the town shall, by ordinance or resolution,
establish a Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund for the town. Except as
otherwise provided in division (C), the town may only use money in its
Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund:
      (1)   To purchase land, easements, or rights-of-way;
      (2)   To purchase buildings;
      (3)   To construct or improve city owned property;
      (4)   To design, develop, purchase, lease, upgrade, maintain, or repair:
         (a)   Computer hardware;
         (b)   Computer software;
         (c)   Wiring and computer networks; and
         (d)   Communications access systems used to connect with computer
networks or electronic gateways;
      (5)   To pay for the services of full-time or part-time computer
maintenance employees;
      (6)   To conduct nonrecurring in-service technology training of unit
employees;
      (7)   To undertake Internet application development; or
      (8)   To retire general obligation bonds issued by the town for one of
the purposes stated in division (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) or (6) above; or
      (9)   For any other governmental purpose for which money is appropriated
by the fiscal body of the town.
   (B)   The money in the Town’s Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund does not
revert to to General Fund.
   (C)   The town may at any time, by ordinance or resolution, transfer to:
      (1)   Its General Fund; or
      (2)   An authority established under I.C. 36-7-23;
money derived under this section that has been deposited in the town’s
Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund.
(I.C. 6-7-1-31.1)
§ 34.61  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX (EDIT).
   I.C. 6-3.5-7-13.1 allows such tax revenues to be used for any lawful
purpose.
§ 34.62  TIF FUND.
   This Fund shall be used to finance infrastructure or capital improvements
that are in, serve, or benefit the area to be developed. I.C. 36-7-14-12.2
permits collecting revenue. I.C. 36-7-14-39 permits the use of the Fund.
§ 34.63  LOCAL ROAD AND STREET (LR&S) FUND.
   This Fund shall be used for expenses incurred in the construction,
reconstruction, or maintenance of local road and streets in town. Local road
and street account distributions must be budgeted and appropriated prior to
expenditure in the same manner as property tax revenues.
Statutory reference:
   Local road and street account; use of funds, see I.C. 8-14-2-5
§ 34.64  MOTOR VEHICLE HIGHWAY FUND (MVH FUND).
   (A)   These funds shall be used for;
      (1)   Construction and reconstruction of streets, alleys, and curbs.
      (2)   Repair and maintenance of streets, alleys, and curbs.
      (3)   Oiling, sprinkling, snow removal, weed and tree cutting and
cleaning streets.
      (4)   Purchase or lease of highway construction and maintenance
equipment.
      (5)   Purchase, erection and maintenance of traffic signs and signals,
and safety zones and devices.
      (6)   Painting of structures, objects, surfaces in highways for the
purpose of safety and traffic regulations.
      (7)   Law enforcement purposes subject to the following limitations: for
a town less than 5,000 people no more than 15% may be spent for law enforcement
purposes.
      (8)   Payment of principal and interest on bonds sold primarily to
finance road and street projects.
   (B)   Expenditures of motor vehicle highway distributions must have been
budgeted and appropriated in the same manner as required of general property
revenues.
Statutory reference:
   Permissible use of funds; municipal allocations, see I.C. 8-14-1-5
§ 34.65  WATER WORKS OPERATING FUND.
   The Water Works Operating Fund shall be established to deposit revenue for
the purpose of the Fund. Expenses from such Fund should be directly related to
the operation of the water works utility. Expenditures for town operating costs
should not be paid from the water works utility funds.
§ 34.66  WATER WORKS DEPRECIATION FUND.
   The Water Works Depreciation Fund shall be established to deposit revenue
for the purpose of the Fund. Expenses from such Fund should be directly related
to the operation of the water works utility. Expenditures for town operating
costs should not be paid from the water works utility funds.
§ 34.67  WATER WORKS CONSUMER DEPOSIT FUND.
   The Water Works Consumer Deposit Fund shall be established to deposit
revenue for the purpose of the Fund. Expenses from such Fund should be directly
related to the operation of the water works utility. Expenditures for town
operating costs should not be paid from the water works utility funds.
§ 34.68  WATER WORKS CONSTRUCTION FUND.
   The Water Works Construction Fund shall be established to deposit revenue
for the purpose of the Fund. Expenses from such Fund should be directly related
to the operation of the water works utility. Expenditures for town operating
costs should not be paid from the water works utility funds.
§ 34.69  TRASH UTILITY FUND.
   The Trash Utility Fund shall be established to deposit revenue for the
purpose of the Fund. Expenses from such Fund should be directly related to the
operation of the trash utility. Expenditures for city and town operating costs
should not be paid from the Trash Utility Fund.
§ 34.70  SEWER OPERATING FUND.
   The Sewer Operating Fund shall be established to deposit revenue for the
purpose of the Fund. Expenses from such Fund should be directly related to the
operation of the waste water utility. Expenditures for town operating costs
should not be paid from the waste water utility funds.
§ 34.71  SEWER BOND AND INTEREST FUND.
   The Sewer Bond and Interest Fund shall be established to deposit revenue for
the purpose of the Fund. Expenses from such Fund should be directly related to
the operation of the waste water utility. Expenditures for town operating costs
should not be paid from the waste water utility funds.
§ 34.72  SEWER DEBT SERVICE FUND.
   The Sewer Debt Service Fund shall be established to deposit revenue for the
purpose of the Fund. Expenses from such Fund should be directly related to the
operation of the waste water utility. Expenditures for town operating costs
should not be paid from the waste water utility funds.
§ 34.73  PAYROLL CLEARING FUND.
   The Payroll Clearing Fund is a clearing account used for paying elected
officials and employees. This account should balance out on a monthly,
quarterly, or yearly basis.
§ 34.74  FEDERAL WITHHOLDING FUND
   The Federal Withholding Fund is a clearing account used for paying elected
officials and employees. This account should balance out on a monthly,
quarterly, or yearly basis.
§ 34.75  FICA/MEDICARE FUND.
   The FICA/Medicare Fund is a clearing account used for paying elected
officials and employees. This account should balance out on a monthly,
quarterly, or yearly basis.
§ 34.76  STATE WITHHOLDING FUND.
   The State Withholding Fund is a clearing account used for paying elected
officials and employees. This account should balance out on a monthly,
quarterly, or yearly basis.
§ 34.77  PERF - EMPLOYEE FUND.
   The PERF - Employee Fund is a clearing account used for paying elected
officials and employees. This account should balance out on a monthly,
quarterly, or yearly basis.
§ 34.78  GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE FUND.
   The Group Health Insurance Fund is a clearing account used for paying
elected officials and employees. This account should balance out on a monthly,
quarterly, or yearly basis.
§ 34.79  GARNISHMENT FUND.
   The Garnishment Fund is a clearing account used for paying elected officials
and employees. This account should balance out on a monthly, quarterly, or
yearly basis.
§ 34.80  REIMBURSEMENT FUND.
   The Reimbursement Fund is a clearing account used for paying elected
officials and employees. This account should balance out on a monthly,
quarterly, or yearly basis.
§ 34.81  LOCAL WITHHOLDING TAX FUND.
   The Local Withholding Tax Fund is a clearing account used for paying elected
officials and employees. This account should balance out on a monthly,
quarterly, or yearly basis.
§ 34.82  PERF - TOWN SHARE DUE FUND.
   The PERF - Town Share Due Fund is a clearing account used for paying elected
officials and employees. This account should balance out on a monthly,
quarterly, or yearly basis.
CHAPTER 35:  TOWN POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   ADA grievance procedure
Public Records Management
   
35.15   Adoption of access to public records as local policy
   
35.16   Incorporation of state law
   
35.17   Definitions
   
35.18   Right to inspect and copy public agency records
   
35.19   Law enforcement records and information
   
35.20   Denial of disclosure and related matters
   
35.21   Public records which may not be disclosed
   
35.22   Duty to protect and preserve public records
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01  ADA GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. 12101 et
seq. (“ADA”) has established a grievance procedure to assist anyone who wishes
to file a complaint alleging discrimination of the basis of disability in the
provision of services, activities, programs or benefits.
   (B)   A grievance procedure and notice has been created for the town, a copy
of which is attached hereto and incorporated by reference hereof as if set out
in full and hereinafter referred to as Exhibit A.
   (C)   Exhibit A shall be adopted as the grievance procedure for the town in
compliance with the ADA.
(Res. 4, 2011, passed 12-12-2011)
PUBLIC RECORDS MANAGEMENT
§ 35.15  ADOPTION OF ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS AS LOCAL POLICY.
   The Town Council, as the legislative body of the municipality, hereby finds,
determines and declares the following.
   (A)   A fundamental philosophy of the American constitutional form of
representative government is that government is the servant of the people and
not their master. Accordingly, it is the public policy of this municipality
that all persons are entitled to full and complete information regarding the
affairs of government and the official acts of those who represent them as
public officials and employees. Providing persons with the information is an
essential function of a representative government and an integral part of the
routine duties of public officials and employees, whose duty it is to provide
the information.
   (B)   This subchapter incorporates the provisions of I.C. 5-14-3 et seq., as
amended from time to time, and shall be construed according to the policy and
construction of that statute.
   (C)   The burden of proof for nondisclosure of a public record by a public
agency shall be imposed on the public agency that would deny access to the
record, and not on the person seeking to inspect and copy the record.
§ 35.16  INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW.
   In order to support the effective organization and efficient administration
of the public records, documents and materials of the municipality, including
all of its executive departments and agencies over which the Town Council may
exercise jurisdiction, as well as carry out the collection of service charges,
the provisions of I.C. 5-14-3 et seq., as may be amended from time to time, are
hereby adopted and incorporated by reference, effective upon the municipality
as if its provisions were expressly set forth herein, and pursuant to the
directive of I.C. 36-1-5-4, two copies of the relevant chapter of the code are
on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer, where they shall be available for
public inspection.
§ 35.17  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COPY. Includes transcribing by hand- writing, photocopying, xerography,
duplicating machine, duplicating electronically stored data onto a disk, tape,
drum or any other medium of electronic data storage, and reproducing by any
other means.
      DIRECT COST. One hundred and five percent of the sum of the cost of:
         (a)   The initial development of a program, if any;
         (b)   The labor required to retrieve electronically stored data; and
         (c)   Any medium used for electronic output, for providing a duplicate
of electronically stored data onto a disk, tape, drum or other medium of
electronic data retrieval under I.C. 5-14-3-8(g), or for reprogramming a
computer system under I.C. 5-14-3-6(c).
      ELECTRONIC MAP. Copyrighted data provided by a public agency from an
electronic geographic information system.
      ENHANCED ACCESS. The inspection of a public record by a person other than
a governmental entity and that:
         (a)   Is by means of an electronic device other than an electronic
device provided by a public agency in the office of the public agency; or
         (b)   Requires the compilation or creation of a list or report that
does not result in the permanent electronic storage of the information.
      FACSIMILE MACHINE. A machine that electronically transmits exact images
through connection with a telephone network.
      INSPECT. Includes the right to do the following:
         (a)   Manually transcribe and make notes, abstracts or memoranda;
         (b)   In the case of tape recordings or other aural public records, to
listen and manually transcribe or duplicate, or make notes, abstracts or other
memoranda from them;
         (c)   In the case of public records available:
            1.   By enhanced access under I.C. 5-14-3.5; or
            2.   To a governmental entity under I.C. 5-14-3-3(c)(2); to examine
and copy the public records by use of an electronic device.
         (d)   In the case of electronically stored data, to manually
transcribe and make notes, abstracts or memoranda or to duplicate the data onto
a disk, tape, drum or any other medium of electronic storage.
      INVESTIGATORY RECORD. Information compiled in the course of the
investigation of a crime.
      PATIENT. Has the meaning set out in I.C. 16-18-2-272(d).
      PERSON. An individual, a corporation, a limited liability company, a
partnership, an unincorporated association or a governmental entity.
      PROVIDER. The meaning set out in I.C. 16-18-2-295(a) and includes
employees of the State Department of Health or local boards of health who
create patient records at the request of another provider, or who are social
workers and create records concerning the family background of children who may
need assistance.
      PUBLIC AGENCY. Includes the following:
         (a)   The town, or any board, commission, department, division,
bureau, committee, office, instrumentality or authority of the town; or
         (b)   Any other entity, or any office thereof, by whatever name
designated, exercising in a limited geographical area the executive,
administrative, judicial or legislative power of the state or a delegated local
governmental power;
         (c)   Any entity or office that is subject to:
            1.   Budget review by either the State Board of Tax Commissioners
or the governing body of the town; or
            2.   An audit by the State Board of Accounts.
         (d)   Any building corporation of a political subdivision that issues
bonds for the purpose of constructing public facilities;
         (e)   Any advisory commission, committee or body created by statute,
ordinance or executive order to advise the governing body of a public agency,
except medical staffs or the committees of any such staff; and
         (f)   Any law enforcement agency, which means an agency or a
department of any level of government that engages in the investigation,
apprehension, arrest or prosecution of alleged criminal offenders, such as the
metropolitan police department.
      PUBLIC RECORD. Any writing, paper, report, study, map, photograph, book,
card, tape recording or other material that is created, received, retained,
maintained, used or filed by or with a public agency, and which is generated on
paper, paper substitutes, photographic media, chemically based media, magnetic
or machine readable media, electronically stored data or any other material,
regardless of form or characteristics.
      STANDARD-SIZED DOCUMENTS. Includes all documents that can be mechanically
reproduced (without mechanical reduction) on paper sized eight and one-half
inches by 11 inches or eight and one-half inches by 14 inches.
      TRADE SECRET. Has the meaning set forth in I.C. 24-2-3-2.
      WORK PRODUCT OF AN ATTORNEY. Information compiled by an attorney in
reasonable anticipation of litigation, and includes the attorney’s:
         (a)   Notes and statements taken during interviews of prospective
witnesses; and
         (b)   Legal research or records, correspondence, reports or memoranda,
to the extent that each contains the attorney’s opinions, theories or
conclusions.
   (B)   These definitions do not restrict the application of any exception
under §
35.21.
§ 35.18  RIGHT TO INSPECT AND COPY PUBLIC AGENCY RECORDS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person may inspect and copy the public records of any public
agency during the regular business hours of the agency, except as provided in §
35.20. A request for inspection or copying must:
         (a)   Identify with reasonable particularity the record being
requested; and
         (b)   At the discretion of the office or department, be in writing on
a form provided by the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   No request may be denied because the person making the request
refuses to state the purpose of the request, unless such condition is required
by other applicable statute. (See commercial purposes exception, §
35.21(C).)
   (B)   A public agency may not deny or interfere with the exercise of the
right stated in division (A) above. The public agency shall either:
      (1)   Provide the requested copies to the person making the request; or
      (2)   Allow the person to make copies:
         (a)   On the agency’s equipment; or
         (b)   On his or her own equipment.
   (C)   A person who receives information under this subchapter may not use
the information for commercial purposes, including to sell, advertise or
solicit the purchase of merchandise, goods or services, or sell, loan, give
away or otherwise deliver the information obtained by the request to any other
person (as defined in I.C. 5-14-3-2) for these purposes.
   (D)   Use of information received under this subchapter in connection with
the preparation or publication of news, for nonprofit activities, or for
academic research is not prohibited. A person who uses information in a manner
contrary to these provisions will be prohibited from obtaining a copy or any
further data.
§ 35.19  LAW ENFORCEMENT RECORDS AND INFORMATION.
   (A)   Nothing contained in §
35.21(B)(8)(a) requires a law enforcement agency to release to the public the
job title or job description of law enforcement officers.
   (B)   If a person is arrested or summoned for an offense, the following
information shall be made available for inspection and copying:
      (1)   Information that identifies the person, including his or her name,
age and address;
      (2)   Information concerning any charges on which the arrest or summons
is based; and
      (3)   Information relating to the circumstances of the arrest or the
issuance of the summons, such as the:
         (a)   Time and location of the arrest or the issuance of the summons;
         (b)   Investigating or arresting officer (other than an undercover
officer or agent); and
         (c)   Investigating or arresting law enforcement agency.
   (C)   If a person is received in a jail or lock-up, the following
information shall be made available for inspection and copying:
      (1)   Information that identifies the person, including his or her name,
age and address;
      (2)   Information concerning the reason for the person being placed in
the jail or lock-up, including the name of the person on whose order the person
is being held;
      (3)   The time and date that the person was received and the time and
date of his or her discharge or transfer; and
      (4)   The amount of the person’s bail or bond, if it has been fixed.
   (D)   (1)   An agency shall maintain a daily log or record that lists
suspected crimes, accidents or complaints, and the following information shall
be made available for inspection and copying:
         (a)   The time, substance and location of all complaints or requests
for assistance received by the agency;
         (b)   The time and nature of the agency’s response to all complaints
or requests for assistance; and
         (c)   If the incident involves an alleged crime or infraction:
            1.   The time, date and location of occurrence;
            2.   The name and age of any victim, unless the victim is a victim
of a crime under I.C. 35-42-4;
            3.   The factual circumstances surrounding the incident; and
            4.   A general description of any injuries, property or weapons
involved.
      (2)   The information required in this division (D) shall be made
available for inspection and copying in compliance with this chapter. The
record containing the information must be created not later than 24 hours after
the suspected crime, accident or complaint has been reported to the agency.
These provisions do not affect I.C. 5-2-4 or 5-11-1-9.
§ 35.20  DENIAL OF DISCLOSURE AND RELATED MATTERS.
   (A)   A denial of disclosure by a public agency occurs when the person
making the request is physically present in the office of the agency, makes the
request by telephone, or requests enhanced access to a document and:
      (1)   The person designated by the public agency as being responsible for
public records release decisions refuses to permit inspection and copying of a
public record when a request has been made; or
      (2)   Twenty-four hours elapse after any employee of the public agency
refuses to permit inspection and copying of a public record when a request has
been made; whichever occurs first.
   (B)   If a person requests by mail or by facsimile a copy or copies of a
public record, a denial of disclosure does not occur until seven days have
elapsed from the date the public agency receives the request.
   (C)   If a request is made orally, either in person or by telephone, a
public agency may deny the request orally. However, if a request initially is
made in writing, by facsimile, or through enhanced access, or if an oral
request that has been denied is renewed in writing or by facsimile, a public
agency may deny the request if:
      (1)   The denial is in writing or by facsimile; and
      (2)   The denial includes:
         (a)   A statement of the specific exemption or exemptions authorizing
the withholding of all or part of the public record; and
         (b)   The name and the title or position of the person responsible for
the denial.
   (D)   (1)   A person who has been denied the right to inspect or copy a
public record by a public agency may file an action in the circuit or superior
court of the county in which the denial occurred to compel the public agency to
permit the person to inspect and copy the public record. Whenever an action is
filed under this division (D), the public agency must notify each person who
supplied any part of the public record at issue:
         (a)   That a request for release of the public record has been denied;
and
         (b)   Whether the denial was in compliance with an informal inquiry
response or advisory opinion of the public access counselor.
      (2)   Such persons are entitled to intervene in any litigation that
results from the denial. The person who has been denied the right to inspect or
copy need not allege or prove any special damage different from that suffered
by the public at large.
   (E)   The municipality hereby acknowledges the further provisions of I.C. 5-
14-3-9 and its description of procedures and remedies for unlawful denial of
disclosures.
§ 35.21  PUBLIC RECORDS WHICH MAY NOT BE DISCLOSED.
   (A)   The following public records are excepted from §
35.18 and may not be disclosed by a public agency, unless access to the records
is specifically required by a state or federal statute or is ordered by a court
under the rules of discovery:
      (1)   Those declared confidential by state statute;
      (2)   Those declared confidential by rule adopted by a public agency
under specific authority to classify public records as confidential, granted to
the public agency by statute;
      (3)   Those required to be kept confidential by federal law;
      (4)   Records containing trade secrets;
      (5)   Confidential financial information obtained, upon request, from a
person. However, this does not include information that is filed with or
received by a public agency pursuant to state statute;
      (6)   Information concerning research, including actual research
documents, conducted under the auspices of an institution of higher education,
including information:
         (a)   Concerning any negotiations made with respect to the research;
and
         (b)   Received from another party involved in the research.
      (7)   Grade transcripts and license examination scores obtained as part
of a licensure process; and
      (8)   Those declared confidential by or under rules adopted by the
Supreme Court of the state.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by §
35.19, the following public records shall be excepted from §
35.18 at the discretion of a public agency:
      (1)   Investigatory records of law enforcement agencies. However, certain
law enforcement records must be made available for inspection and copying as
provided in §
35.18;
      (2)   The work product of an attorney representing, pursuant to an
appointment by a public agency:
         (a)   A public agency;
         (b)   The state; or
         (c)   An individual.
      (3)   Test questions, scoring keys and other examination data used in
administering a licensing examination, examination for employment or academic
examination, before the examination is given or if it is to be given again;
      (4)   Scores of tests if the person is identified by name and has not
consented to the release of his or her scores;
      (5)   The following:
         (a)   Records relating to negotiations between economic development
commissions with industrial, research or commercial prospects, if the records
are created while negotiations are in progress;
         (b)   Notwithstanding division (B)(5)(a) above, the terms of the final
offer of public financial resources communicated by economic development
commissions to an industrial, a research or a commercial prospect shall be
available for inspection and copying under §
35.18 after negotiations with that prospect have terminated; and
         (c)   When disclosing a final offer under division (B)(5)(b) above,
the proper officer(s) of economic development commissions shall certify that
the information being disclosed accurately and completely represents the terms
of the final offer.
      (6)   Records that are intra-agency or interagency advisory or
deliberative material, including material developed by a private contractor
under a contract with a public agency, that are expressions of opinion or are
of a speculative nature, and that are communicated for the purpose of decision
making;
      (7)   Diaries, journals or other personal notes serving as the functional
equivalent of a diary or journal;
      (8)   (a)   Personnel files of public employees and files of applicants
for public employment, except for:
            1.   The name, compensation, job title, business address, business
telephone number, job description, education and training background, previous
work experience, or dates of first and last employment of present or former
officers or employees of the agency;
            2.   Information relating to the status of any formal charges
against the employee; and
            3.   Information concerning disciplinary actions in which final
action has been taken and that resulted in the employee being disciplined or
discharged.
         (b)   However, all personnel file information shall be made available
to the affected employee or his or her representative. This division (B)(8)
does not apply to disclosure of personnel information generally on all
employees or for groups of employees without the request being particularized
by employee name.
      (9)   Administrative or technical information that would jeopardize a
recordkeeping or security system;
      (10)   Computer programs, computer codes, computer filing systems and
other software that are owned by the public agency or entrusted to it and
portions of electronic maps entrusted to a public agency by a utility;
      (11)   Records specifically prepared for discussion or developed during
discussion in an executive session under I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1. However, this
division (B)(11) does not apply to that information required to be available
for inspection and copying under division (B)(8) above; and
      (12)   The identity of a donor of a gift made to a public agency if:
         (a)   The donor requires nondisclosure of his or her identity as a
condition of making the gift; or
         (b)   After the gift is made, the donor or a member of the donor’s
family requests nondisclosure.
   (C)   Notwithstanding §
35.18, a public agency is not required to create or provide copies of lists of
names and addresses, unless the public agency is required to publish such lists
and disseminate them to the public pursuant to statute. However, if a public
agency has created a list of names and addresses, it must permit a person to
inspect and make memoranda abstracts from the lists, unless access to the lists
is prohibited by law. The following lists of names and addresses may not be
disclosed by public agencies to commercial entities for commercial purposes and
may not be used by commercial entities for commercial purposes:
      (1)   A list of employees of a public agency; and
      (2)   A list of persons attending conferences or meetings at a state
institution of higher education, or of persons involved in programs or
activities conducted or supervised by the state institution of higher
education.
   (D)   Nothing contained in division (B) above shall limit or affect the
right of a person to inspect and copy a public record required or directed to
be made by any statute or by any rule of a public agency.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other law, a public record that is classified as
confidential, other than a record concerning an adoption, shall be made
available for inspection and copying 75 years after the creation of that
record.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (E) above and §
35.22:
      (1)   Public records subject to I.C. 5-15 may be destroyed only in
accordance with record retention schedules under I.C. 5-15; or
      (2)   Public records not subject to I.C. 5-15 may be destroyed in the
ordinary course of business.
§ 35.22  DUTY TO PROTECT AND PRESERVE PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   A public agency shall protect public records from loss, alteration,
mutilation or destruction, and regulate any material interference with the
regular discharge of the functions or duties of the public agency or public
employees.
   (B)   A public agency shall take precautions that protect the contents of
public records from unauthorized enhanced access, unauthorized access by an
electronic device, or alteration.
   (C)   This section does not operate to deny to any person the rights secured
by §
35.18.
CHAPTER 36:  TOWN EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Travel expenses
Drug and Alcohol Testing Procedure
   
36.15   Generally
   
36.16   Reasonable suspicion testing
   
36.17   Random and post-accident drug testing
   
36.18   Chain of possession procedures
   
36.19   Alcohol breath testing
   
36.20   Disciplinary action
   
36.21   Laboratory requirements
   
36.22   Confidentiality
Nepotism
   
36.35   Purpose
   
36.36   Definitions
   
36.37   Employment policy
   
36.38   Contracting policy
   
36.39   Submission of compliance statements
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01  TRAVEL EXPENSES.
   (A)   The town will reimburse its employees for their necessary travel
expenses only when such travel has prior approval by the town.
   (B)   The town will only approve travel that is covered by sufficient travel
budget, and in the course of an employee’s employment or intended to better
equip the employee to perform his or her duties.
   (C)   Employees shall be reimbursed for their travel expenses according to
the following:
 
Costs                                   Reimbursement
Employee auto mileage                   The rate allowed by the state
Travel by air                           Actual cost (lowest cost)
Lodging                                 Actual cost at single room rate (lowest
                                        cost)
                                        Actual cost up to amount allowed per
Meals                                   day by the state at the time of
                                        occurrence
All other expenses necessarily incurred
directly related to the purpose of
travel, such as taxi fare, tolls,       Actual cost
parking, registration, business phone
calls and the like
 
   (D)   For items reimbursed at actual cost in division (C) above, town
approval, valid receipts and a copy of the seminar or event brochure shall be
provided to justify the payment request.
   (E)   Travel advances will not be provided by the town to employees. Travel
agents, airlines or lodges may be paid directly, however, through normal and
proper claim payment procedures.
   (F)   Local business meetings are subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   The town shall reimburse an employee or pay an agency directly
through normal claim payment procedures for local business meetings where meals
are served only after prior approval by the town.
      (2)   The town will only approve such an expenditure when:
         (a)   There is sufficient budget avail- able;
         (b)   The subject of the meeting applies directly to an employee’s job
or will better an employee’s skill in his or her position; and
         (c)   The reimbursement shall be for actual cost for the meeting with
town approval and a copy of the meeting brochure attached to the claim form.
   (G)   When two or more employees or Council members attend the same
function, they will travel in the same vehicle (mileage only) and lodge in the
same room, where possible. Otherwise the reimbursements allowed by this section
will be divided by the number of employees or Council members involved.
DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING PROCEDURE
§ 36.15  GENERALLY.
   The following procedures will apply to the employee drug and alcohol testing
program.
(Ord. 1-2004, passed 2-9-2004)
§ 36.16  REASONABLE SUSPICION TESTING.
   (A)   When an employee is acting in an abnormal manner and the town has
“reasonable suspicion” to believe that the employee is under the influence of
controlled substances and/or alcohol, the town will require the employee to go
to a medical clinic to provide a urine specimen for laboratory testing and/or
to take an alcohol breath test (hereinafter referred to as “EBT”) at Town Hall
or at a designated medical clinic.
   (B)   REASONABLE SUSPICION means suspicion based upon specific personal
observations that the town representatives can describe concerning the
appearance, behavior, speech or breath odor of the employee, where the odor is
detected in addition to appearance, behavior or speech. Suspicion is not
reasonable, and thus not a basis for testing, if it is based solely upon the
observations and reports of third parties. The grounds for reasonable suspicion
must be documented by the employee’s supervisor.
   (C)   When an employee is requested to submit to drug and/or alcohol
testing, he or she shall be informed in the presence of the supervisor that he
or she is being asked to submit to the test. The employee shall be informed
that refusal to submit to testing will constitute a presumption of intoxication
and subject the employee to immediate discharge. If the employee refuses to
submit to the test, this refusal shall be in writing.
   (D)   If the employee consents to the testing, he or she shall sign a
consent form authorizing the collection of a specimen of urine and/or the
conduct of an EBT test and a release of the results of the laboratory testing
and/or EBT test to the town. This release shall be provided by the laboratory
or clinic involved who shall retain a copy of same.
   (E)   Prior to the actual drug testing, the employee will be examined by a
medical doctor at the designated hospital, laboratory and/or clinic if there is
one available at that location. This examination will be made to determine
whether the conduct or behavior observed may have been caused by a reason other
than the possible influence of drugs and/or alcohol. If the medical doctor
decides that the conduct or behavior observed by the supervisor is for a reason
other than possible influence of drugs and/or alcohol, no test will be given
and the employee will be returned to work without loss of pay, provided the
medical doctor releases the employee to return to work. Such release must be in
writing. If no doctor is reasonably available, the test shall be under the
conditions set forth below.
   (F)   If an employee intentionally interferes with his or her drug test by
providing an adulterated sample, or seeking to substitute clean urine for his
or her own urine, or engages in similar tactics, the employee will be
immediately discharged.
(Ord. 1-2004, passed 2-9-2004)
§ 36.17  RANDOM AND POST-ACCIDENT DRUG TESTING.
   (A)   The town shall conduct random and post-accident drug and alcohol
testing on all officers and employees.
   (B)   Such tests shall be conducted consistently with the requirements of
the provisions of this section.
      (1)   Post-accident testing.
         (a)   Post-accident testing shall occur only when an employee, officer
or department head is operating a town owned vehicle during that person’s
normal work hours or during a period in which that person is receiving overtime
compensation.
         (b)   1.   Post-accident testing shall be conducted only after an
“accident” which meets the definitions established by the D.O.T. and the
Federal Highway Town Council.
            2.   Under those provisions, an “accident” drug and alcohol testing
is defined as follows:
               a.   The accident involved a fatality;
               b.   The driver eligible for post-accident drug and alcohol
testing received a citation under state or local law for a moving traffic
violation arising from the accident;
               c.   A driver or occupant of any vehicle involved received an
injury requiring treatment at an emergency medical facility away from the
scene; or
               d.   A vehicle involved in the accident was required to be towed
from the scene (or as a result of its damage received it was not in a condition
for legal operation).
         (c)   This post-accident drug and alcohol testing shall be done as
soon as practicable following an accident.
      (2)   Random alcohol testing. Random alcohol testing will be conducted on
all employees. The employee will be randomly selected for testing from the pool
of all employees. The testing dates and times will be unannounced and set with
unpredictable frequency throughout the year. An employee who is absent on the
day he or she is randomly selected for testing will be tested on the day he or
she next returns to work. Likewise, an employee who reports to work and then
requests leave time for illness or otherwise on that date will be immediately
tested upon his or her return from leave. The first year, the number of random
tests conducted by the town will equal 100% of all employees at any time after
policy implementation. This percentage may change in future years. An employee
who provides a sample that is diluted, contaminated or otherwise untestable
will be subject to immediate re-test and/or discipline in the discretion of the
medical review officer and the employee’s supervisor.
      (3)   Random drug testing.
         (a)   Random drug testing will be conducted on all employees. These
tests will be unannounced. The total number conducted the first year will equal
100% of all employees at any time after policy implementation. This percentage
may change in future years. Some employees may be tested more than one time
each year, some may not be tested at all depending upon the random selection.
An employee who is absent on the day he or she is randomly selected for testing
will be tested on the day he or she next returns to work. Likewise, an employee
who reports to work and then requests leave time for illness or otherwise on
that date will be immediately tested upon his or her return from leave. An
employee who provides a sample that is diluted, contaminated or otherwise
untestable will be subject to immediate re-test and/or discipline in the
discretion of the medical review officer and the employee’s supervisor. If an
employee intentionally interferes with his or her drug test by providing an
adulterated sample, or seeking to substitute clean urine for his or her own
urine, or engages in similar tactics, the employee will be immediately
discharged.
(Ord. 1-2004, passed 2-9-2004)
§ 36.18  CHAIN OF POSSESSION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The supervisor requesting a test shall escort the employee to the
independent hospital, laboratory and/or clinic. The primary place of testing
will be the Union Hospital Center for Occupational Health. Tests may also be
administered at any other local hospital or clinic appropriately equipped and
staffed. At the time a specimen is collected, the employee will be given a copy
of the specimen collection procedures.
   (B)   The specimen must be immediately sealed, labeled and initialed by the
employee to ensure that the specimen tested by the laboratory is that of the
employee.
   (C)   The required procedure is as follows.
      (1)   Urine shall be a wide-mouthed clinic specimen container which shall
remain in full view of the employee until split, transferred to, sealed and
initialed in two tamper-resistant urine bottles.
      (2)   Immediately after the specimens are collected, the urine bottles
shall, in the presence of the employee, be labeled and then initialed by the
employee. If the sample must be collected at a site other than the drug and/or
alcohol testing laboratory, the specimens shall then be placed in the
transportation container. The container shall be sealed in the employee’s
presence and the employee shall be asked to initial or sign the container. The
container shall be sent to the designated testing laboratory on that day or the
earliest business day by the fastest available methods.
      (3)   A chain of possession form shall be completed by the hospital,
laboratory and/or clinic personnel during the specimen collection and attached
to and mailed with the specimens.
(Ord. 1-2004, passed 2-9-2004)
§ 36.19  ALCOHOL BREATH TESTING.
   Alcohol breath testing (EBT) will be conducted either at Town Hall, a county
or state law enforcement agency, or at a private clinic or laboratory. If the
town chooses to conduct alcohol breath testing (EBT) on its own premises, such
testing shall be conducted in the presence of certified operators, other than
the employee’s supervisor.
(Ord. 1-2004, passed 2-9-2004)
§ 36.20  DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
   The town will immediately terminate any employee with tests results as
follows.
   (A)   If the test as reviewed and confirmed by the medical review officer
(MRO) results show a forensically acceptable positive quantum of proof (in
conformance with the levels established by the D.H.H.S. for initial tests and
confirmatory tests) of cocaine, heroin, PCP, LSD, barbituates, amphetamines or
any other controlled substance except marijuana, the employee shall be
immediately discharged.
   (B)   With regard to marijuana, if the test results as reviewed and
confirmed by the medical review officer (MRO) of a urine specimen by gas
chromatograph/mass spectrometry (GCIMS) confirm the initial immunochemical
quantification of 50 or more nanograms crossreactive cannabinoids/ml, the
employee shall be immediately discharged.
   (C)   If the test results as reviewed by the certified operator and medical
review officer (MRO) show an EBT/alcohol concentration equal to or above four
hundredths, the employee shall be immediately discharged. If the test results
show an EBT/alcohol concentration equal to or above two hundredths, but less
than four hundredths, the employee shall be removed from duty for 24 hours
without pay, but with no other disciplinary action.
(Ord. 1-2004, passed 2-9-2004)
§ 36.21  LABORATORY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Specimen retention. All specimens deemed “positive” by the laboratory,
according to the prescribed guidelines, must be retained, for identification
purposes, at the laboratory for a period of at least one year.
   (B)   Approved testing laboratories. The laboratories used must be able to
perform all the required testing procedures. The parties also agree to retain
the right to audit and inspect the individual laboratories to determine
conformity with the laboratory requirements as established herein.
   (C)   Prescription and nonprescription medications. The employee shall note
on a form furnished by the town use of any prescription and nonprescription
medication before any test is given. Through the use of the above described
laboratory procedures, the laboratory will report significant presence of all
prescription and nonprescription medications. If an employee is taking a
prescription or nonprescription medication in the appropriate described manner
and has noted such use, as provided above, and has been cleared to return to
duty, he or she will not be disciplined.
(Ord. 1-2004, passed 2-9-2004)
§ 36.22  CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Every effort will be made to ensure that all employees substance abuse
problems will be discussed in private and actions taken will not be made known
to anyone other than those directly involved in taking the action or who are
required to be involved in the disciplinary procedure.
   (B)   (1)   Only one person in the employee’s department will be designated
to receive testing results.
      (2)   He or she will notify other managers of the town strictly on a
“need-to-know basis.”
   (C)   (1)   No laboratory or medical reports or test results shall appear in
an employee’s personnel folder. Information of this nature will be included in
the medical file.
      (2)   The inside cover of the personnel folder will contain a marker to
show that this information is contained elsewhere.
   (D)   (1)   All necessary measures shall be taken to keep the fact and the
results of the test confidential.
      (2)   Use of results:
         (a)   A medical review officer (MRO) shall interview the employee
concerning the test results within five days. The employee will be given an
opportunity to explain and substantiate his or her use of legal drugs
(prescription or over-the-counter) or other substances which may have resulted
in a positive test result;
         (b)   The MRO shall inform the employee of his or her right to have a
second confirmatory test at a second D.H.H.S. approved laboratory. This second
confirmatory test shall be at the employee’s expense. The employee shall have
72 hours within which to request the confirmatory test. If the results of the
two tests differ, the employee will benefit from the results of the test most
favorable to the employee; and
         (c)   The manager or supervisor shall take appropriate actions based
upon the evaluation.
(Ord. 1-2004, passed 2-9-2004)
NEPOTISM
§ 36.35  PURPOSE.
   Decisions about hiring, promoting, evaluating, awarding salary increases,
job assignment, terminating employees and the awarding of contracts for goods,
services and public works projects should be based on the qualifications,
performance and ability of the employee or contractor. Every attempt to avoid
favoritism and conflicts of interest in employment related and contractual
decisions instills confidence of the electorate in its government. The purpose
of this policy is to prohibit certain individuals from being employed by the
town in a position in which a relative, as defined in this subchapter, provides
direct supervision. Additionally, this policy regulates contracting with
relatives of individuals employed by the town for goods, services and public
works projects.
(Res. 12-2-2012, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 36.36  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BREAK IN EMPLOYMENT. Termination, retirement or resignation of an employee
from the town. A BREAK IN EMPLOYMENT does not occur due to absence from the
workplace while on a paid or unpaid leave, including, but not limited to,
vacation, personal days, sick or family medical leave or worker’s compensation
leave, or if the employment is terminated followed by immediate re-employment
by the town without loss of payroll time.
   DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION. An elected officer or employee who is in a
position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual’s employment.
Such affect may include, but is not limited to, making decisions about work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement or performance evaluation.
Decisions and action taken by the Town Council regarding the passage of annual
salary resolutions, annual budgets and personnel policies are excluded from
this definition.
   ELECTED OFFICIALS. The Town Clerk- Treasurer and members of the Town
Council.
   EMPLOYED. An individual who works for or is appointed to any department or
board of the town on a full-time, part-time, temporary, intermittent, seasonal,
hourly or contractual basis.
   MEMBER OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT. The town has no Fire Department that is
controlled by the town; however, in the event that one is created, this
subchapter shall apply to the Fire Chief and any firefighter appointed to the
Town Fire Department.
   MEMBER OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Chief and any police officer
appointed to the Town Police Department.
   RELATIVE. For the purposes of this subchapter, the term includes any of the
following:
      (1)   Spouse;
      (2)   Parent or step-parent;
      (3)   Child or step-child (includes an adopted child);
      (4)   Sister, brother, step-sister, step-brother (includes sister or
brother by half-blood);
      (5)   Niece or nephew;
      (6)   Aunt or uncle;
      (7)   Daughter-in-law or son-in-law; and
      (8)   Sister-in-law or brother-in-law.
   TOWN. The Town of West Terre Haute and its boards and departments.
(Res. 12-2-2012, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 36.37  EMPLOYMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Individuals who are relatives, as defined in §
36.36, of existing employees may not be employed by the town in a position that
results in one relative being in the direct line of supervision of the other
relative.
   (B)   An individual who is employed by the town on July 1, 2012, is not
subject to this nepotism policy unless the individual has a break in
employment, as defined in §
36.36, with the town.
   (C)   If an individual is employed by the town and the individual’s relative
begins serving a term of elected office, the individual may continue his or her
employment with the town and retain his or her position or rank even if that
individual’s position or rank would be in the direct line of supervision of the
individual’s relative.
   (D)   While an individual who is employed by the town and the individual’s
relative begins serving a term of elected office may continue his or her
employment with the town, that individual may not be promoted to a position or
rank if the new position or rank would place that individual within the direct
line of supervision of the individual’s relative.
(Res. 12-2-2012, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 36.38  CONTRACTING POLICY.
   The town may enter into or renew a contract for the procurement of goods,
services or public works projects with a relative of an elected official or a
business entity in which a relative has an ownership interest if:
   (A)   The elected official files with the town a full disclosure which must
be:
      (1)   In writing;
      (2)   Describe the contract or purchase to be made by the town; and
      (3)   Describe the relationship the elected official has to the
individual or business entity that provides the contract for goods, services or
public works projects.
   (B)   The appropriate town board or department:
      (1)   Issues a certified statement that the contract amount or purchase
price was the lowest amount or price bid offered; or
      (2)   Issues a certified statement detailing the reasons why the
particular vendor or contractor was selected.
   (C)   The town satisfies all other requirements of the state’s public
purchasing (I.C. 5-22) or public works projects (I.C. 36-1-12) statutes; and
   (D)   The elected official complies with disclosure provisions of I.C. 35-
44.1-1-4.
(Res. 12-2-2012, passed 6-11-2012)
§ 36.39  SUBMISSION OF COMPLIANCE STATEMENTS.
   In addition to any other disclosures or certifications required by this
subchapter, the following actions must be taken.
   (A)   The annual report filed by the town with the State Board of Accounts
under I.C. 5-11-13-1 must include a Board’s statement that the town has
implemented a nepotism policy with regard to employment matters and the
contracting for the procurement of goods and services.
   (B)   Prior to December 31 of each year, each elected officer shall submit
to the Clerk-Treasurer a certification in writing, subject to the penalties of
perjury, that said officer has not violated the provisions of the town’s
nepotism policy with regard to employment matters and the contracting for the
procurement of goods and services.
(Res. 12-2-2012, passed 6-11-2012)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   TRASH AND RECYCLING
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   WASTE WATER
      
54.   STORM WATER
CHAPTER 50:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Accounts receivable write-off procedures
   
50.02   Shut-offs/disconnection for late payment of utility services
§ 50.01  ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE WRITE-OFF PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Town Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the
town to ensure that outstanding receivables are current in the water, waste
water and storm water utilities.
   (B)   An account is determined to be uncollectible if it meets one or more
of the following criteria:
      (1)   Collection procedures have been followed and the account remains
unpaid;
      (2)   The debtor cannot be located, nor any of the debtor’s assets;
      (3)   The town has insufficient documentation to pursue collection
efforts;
      (4)   The debt is discharged in bankruptcy;
      (5)   The debtor has died and there is no know estate or guarantor; and/
or
      (6)   It is determined that it is not cost effective to continue
collection efforts.
   (C)   A consumer deposit refund should be returned to the holder of the
receipt or in the case of uncollectible utility account refund paid to the
payee that close out the account.
   (D)   The Deputy Clerk-Treasurer will identify by account all outstanding
receivables that are 12 months old as of each December 31 and compile a report
to be presented to the Town Council for review and approval.
   (E)   The information required for write-off shall include:
      (1)   Customer name and address;
      (2)   Account number;
      (3)   Date of the final bill;
      (4)   Remaining unpaid balance; and
      (5)   Explanation of reason for write-off.
   (F)   Once the Town Council approves the uncollectible list, the Deputy
Clerk-Treasurer will make the appropriate entries to write-off the
uncollectible receivable by using the direct write-off method. The direct
write-off method results in the write-off of a utility bill directly to
accounts receivable (or utility billing) when deemed to be uncollectible.
   (G)   Accounts that have had a write-off will be flagged as having had an
uncollectible balance in the past. Any future transaction for those account
holders will be denied until the uncollectible balance is paid in full. However
the provision will not apply if the debt is fully discharged in bankruptcy.
(Ord. 15-2012, effective 1-1-2013)
§ 50.02  SHUT-OFFS/DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT OF UTILITY SERVICES.
   (A)   The Town Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the
town to ensure that outstanding bills are current in the water, waste water-
storm water utilities, and trash utilities.
   (B)   The town is to discontinue utility service to customers by reason of
nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful opportunity to be heard
on disputed bills, The town’s form for application for utility service and all
bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address, room number and
telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly visible and
easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, and is 30 days or more delinquent,
service will be discontinued for nonpayment;
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint; and
      (4)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
(Ord. 14-2012, effective 1-1-2013)
CHAPTER 51:  TRASH AND RECYCLING
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Schedule of pick-up
   
51.03   Disposal of collected refuse and recycled material; indemnification
   
51.04   Equipment
   
51.05   Contractor contact and records
   
51.06   Services to be provided
   
51.07   Billing rates
§ 51.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any material or substance that is toxic or hazardous waste
as defined either under the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. §§
691 et seq., and the regulations thereunder, or in the Indiana Environmental
Management Act, I.C. 13-11-1-1 et seq., as amended, and the regulations
thereunder or special nuclear or by-products material within the meaning of the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2011 et seq.
   LARGE/HEAVY ITEMS. Other household items such as furniture, appliances,
rolled carpeting.
   RECYCLING MATERIAL. Ordinary, non-hazardous household recycling materials
including paper, cardboard, plastic, glass and cans.
   REFUSE. Ordinary, non-hazardous yard waste (except Christmas trees) and
household refuse, not requiring special handling techniques such as ashes,
garbage, rubbish and trash resulting from the normal running of a household. It
specifically includes kitchen wastes, cans, bottles, household food, vegetable
matter attendant to preparation of foods, and accumulations of animal food.
Also included are newspapers and magazines, discarded clothing and similar
items. It does not include heavy items such as furniture or appliances.
Excluded from REFUSE for purposes of this chapter is heavy items, hazardous
waste, construction debris, human/animal excretions and carcasses.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES. Any single- family dwelling, a structure containing
two families in separate units and single structures containing apartments of
two, three or four units.
   TOWN OF WEST TERRE HAUTE. All the property within the town limits of West
Terre Haute as are now or may be hereafter.
   TOWN OWNED OR OPERATED FACILITY. Any property owned or operated by the town
as are now or may be hereafter.
   UNIT. Any property within the town with four electric meters or less. This
property may be a residential, commercial or town owned or town operated
property including the town park.
   YARD WASTE. Leaves, grass clippings, yard trimmings, weeds, brush, limbs,
other organic garden debris and Christmas trees.
(Ord. 14-5-2014, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 51.02  SCHEDULE OF PICK-UP.
   Each unit will have refuse, as covered hereunder, removed weekly. Each unit
will have recycling material removed bi-weekly. The town will supply locations
and updates to this list to the contractor. The contractor acknowledges that it
will accept this list and updates. The contractor will notify units of the
schedule by publication and other forms of communication. Days of collections
shall be Monday through Friday between 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. The contractor
will not provide service on the following holidays: Thanksgiving; Christmas;
New Year’s Day; Memorial Day; July 4; and Labor Day. In the event of holiday
interrupting service to any unit, service to the affected until shall be
promptly rescheduled to a different day within the same week with notification
by publication and others forms of communication.
   (B)   Once a schedule is set and published and the contractor determines
that the schedule will be changed units must be notified by publication and
other forms of communication.
   (C)   The contractor will set a heavy item pick-up schedule and notify units
of this schedule by publication and other forms of communication.
   (D)   The town shall give 14 days’ notice for the contractor to deliver a
30-yard open top. The town may request ten annually at the town’s discretion.
   (E)   The town shall give 30 days’ notice for the contractor to set up a
single stream recycling location for units access. The contractor shall
maintain this recycling location and remove recycling material bi-weekly.
   (F)   The town shall give 30 days’ notice for the contractor to set up
special spring/fall cleanup and Christmas tree pickup.
(Ord. 14-5-2014, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 51.03  DISPOSAL OF COLLECTED REFUSE AND RECYCLED MATERIAL; INDEMNIFICATION.
   The contractor shall dispose of and recycle collected refuse and recycle
material covered in this chapter in any manner it deems most economical
provided that the contractor is in material compliance with all applicable
local, state and federal laws, rules and regulation at a site having all
necessary governmental licenses and approvals; provided, however, in compliance
with a site that is operated under Federal Subtitle D regulations adopted by
the Environmental Protection Agency and the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management, including the specific requirement that the landfill have a
composite liner as well as a collection system; and further provided this
chapter shall indemnify and hold the town harmless from any loss, liability or
damages asserted against it arising from the contractor’s or the operator of
the disposal site’s disposal of the refuse and/or recycled material. The town
shall not be responsible for the payment of any separate disposal or recycling
costs or fees. The town reserves the right to reject any alternate disposal
methods proposed by the chapter that do not conform to the provisions of this
section.
(Ord. 14-5-2014, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 51.04  EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Contractor’s equipment.
      (1)   The contractor shall provide, use and maintain solely at the
contractor’s expense an adequate number of waste removal vehicles. Contractors
shall be required to keep said vehicles in good repair and appearance and in a
sanitary condition at all times. Said vehicles and equipment used by the
contractor shall be designed so as not to allow collected refuse and recycled
material to be spilled or blown from said vehicles.
      (2)   Each vehicle or piece used by the contractor shall have clearly
visible on the sides thereof the name and the local or toll free telephone
number of the contractor. The contractor shall provide to the town detailed
inventories and certificates of insurance coverage naming the town and the town
as an additional insured for all of their vehicles and equipment. Said
inventories shall include type, model and year of manufacture of vehicles and
equipment and whether said vehicles and equipment are owned or leased by the
contractor.
   (B)   Town’s equipment. The contractor agrees to aid the town in divesting
the town of the equipment currently in use for the same services as provided in
this agreement.
(Ord. 14-5-2014, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 51.05  CONTRACTOR CONTACT AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The contractor shall provide contact information with all units so
services may be requested and complaints may be made. Such contact shall be
available Monday through Friday during regular business hours.
   (B)   The contractor shall maintain proper accounting records for the scope
of all services of the agreement and provide to the town an accounting of all
charges and expenditures as may be necessary for audit purposes. All such
records relating to this agreement shall be subject to inspection and
examination by the town during reasonable business hours and upon reasonable
prior notice.
   (C)   All complaints received by the contractor shall be investigated within
24 hours. The contractor shall keep a written record of complaints and indicate
in said record the disposition of each. Such records shall be provided to the
town upon 48 hours written request. The records shall indicate the date and
hour the complaint was recorded, the date and hour at which it was resolved,
and how it was resolved.
   (D)   The contractor shall maintain proper accounting records for the scope
of all services of this agreement and provide to the town an accounting of all
charges and expenditures as may be necessary for audit purposes. All such
records relating to this agreement shall be subject to inspection and
examination by the town during reasonable business hours and upon reasonable
prior notice.
(Ord. 14-5-2014, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 51.06  SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED.
   (A)   Each of the services described below shall be provided by the
contractor on a year-around basis unless otherwise stated.
   (B)   All the following services will be provided to town owned and operated
locations, buildings and facilities, including the town park at no charge.
      (1)   Household refuse.
         (a)   Refuse shall be collected, removed and disposed from all units
within the town limits of the town as it is now defined, or as it may be
changed by the town, from the places and at times herewith specified at least
once a week or an may be reasonable directed by the town, all ordinary, non-
hazardous household waste as previously defined in §
51.01.
         (b)   In the event that household waste scheduled for collection was
not collected, resident shall provide to the town on the date of such failure
the following information:
            1.   The addresses affected; and
            2.   The date and time such household waste has been rescheduled
for pick-up.
      (2)   Recycling material.
         (a)   Recycling material shall be collected, removed and disposed of
from all units within the town limits of the town as it is now defined, or as
it may be changed by the town, from the places and at times herewith specified
at least bi-weekly or as may be reasonable directed by the town, all ordinary,
non-hazardous recycle material as previously defined.
         (b)   In the event that recycled material scheduled for collection was
not collected, the resident shall provide to the town on the date of such
failure the following information:
            1.   The addresses affected; and
            2.   The date and time such household waste has been rescheduled
for pick-up.
      (3)   Large/heavy item pick-up. Large/heavy items pick-up shall be
collected, removed and disposed of from all units within the town limits of the
town as it is now defined, or as it may be changed by the town, from the places
and at times herewith specified as previously set by the contractor and the
town as the large/heavy item schedule.
      (4)   Yard waste; fall and spring clean up. The contractor shall collect,
remove and dispose of yard waste from all units within the town limits of the
town as it is now defined, or as it may be changed by the town, from the places
and at times herewith specified at twice a year as designated by the town.
      (5)   Christmas trees. Christmas trees shall be collected, removed and
disposed of from all units within the town limits of the town as it is now
defined, or as it may be changed by the town, from the places and at times
herewith specified at least once as directed by the town.
      (6)   Uniform totes.
         (a)   Uniform totes shall provide uniform totes to units. The refuse
totes shall be 96 gallons and a single color with town logo as designated by
the town. The recycling totes shall be 96 gallons and two tone in color with
town logo as designated by the town. In addition, seniors may be provided with
smaller totes  (65 gallon or 35 gallon) at their request and for their
convenience. Special requests for smaller totes for other causes may also be
requested from the residents and will not be unreasonably denied. No
replacement cost for totes due to normal wear and tear.
         (b)   The contractor will maintain and replace all totes as needed.
Totes may be placed in a location for pickup as requested by the contractor
considering the convenience of the unit but the foremost consideration is the
safety of the community and the employees of the contractor. Generally, the
totes will be placed on a single side of a road or alley.
Units shall place all the refuse and recycling material in the totes. The
contractor will contact unit and notify unit that less than all the refuse or
recycle material may be picked up if it is not in the tote.
         (c)   Additional totes may be requested by the resident and any/all
extra charges shall be paid for separately by each individual resident for a
cost of $3 per tote.
      (7)   Open tops. The contractor shall provide ten open tops annually to
the town upon request. The town shall give 30 days’ notice to the contractor
for delivery of the open tops. There is no charge for the ten open tops.
      (8)   Recycling drop site. In addition to the recycle tote the contractor
will offer a single stream recycle drop site for the convenience of the town.
The town will give 30 days’ notice for the contractor to prepare such a site
for units to access. The town and contractor shall mutually agree to a site.
(Ord. 14-5-2014, passed 5-12-2014)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.07  BILLING RATES.
   All residential properties within the town shall be assessed a flat rate fee
of$11 per month.
(Ord. 15-7-2015, passed 9-14-2015)
CHAPTER 52:  WATER
Section
   
52.01   Rates and charges
§ 52.01  RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   There shall be and there are hereby established for the services
rendered by the town water works system, the following rates and charges,
during each monthly billing period:
      (1)   Metered user block schedule. For use of and rendered by the
waterworks system for the town, based upon the use of water supplied by said
waterworks system:
 
In-Town Customers (5/8- and 3/4-inch meters)
      Gallons Present Rates
Min.  3,000   $25.89
First 3,000   $8.63
Next  7,000   $3.63
Next  15,000  $2.72
Over  25,000  $2.25
 
 
Out-of-Town Customers (5/8- and 3/4-inch meters)
      Gallons Present Rates
Min.  3,000   $28.77
First 3,000   $9.59
Next  7,000   $4.03
Next  15,000  $3.02
Over  25,000  $2.50
 
      (2)   Connection charges.
         (a)   Each user at a the time he or she is connected with the
waterworks system shall pay a charge to cover the costs of: excavating and
tapping the main; furnishing and installing service pipe from the main to the
lot line; furnishing and installing corporation and stop cocks; and furnishing
and installing meter cock (if outside), yoke and meter.
 
3/4-inch meter - short tap (service line on same side of road as main)  $1,500
3/4-inch meter - long tap (service line on opposite side of the road as $2,100
main requiring boring)
3/4-inch meter - road tap (main in road requiring road cut for service  $2,200
line)
1-inch meter-short tap (service line on same side of road as main)      $1,800
1-inch meter - long tap (service line on opposite side of the road as   $2,400
main requiring boring)
1-inch meter - road tap (main in road requiring road cut for service    $2,500
line)
 
         (b)   The charge for a tap larger than the one-inch meter shall be the
cost of labor, materials, power machinery, transportation, road boring and/or
road cutting, and overhead incurred for installing the tap, but shall not be
less than the applicable charge for a one-inch meter tap.
   (B)   The utilities office, located at Town Hall, is responsible for the
billing of water, waste water and storm water. The office is open Monday
through Friday 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. and customers should contact the office
during normal business hours. If an emergency exists regarding service after
business hours please call 812-533-1053.
   (C)   Servicing policy:
      (1)   You will need to bring:
         (a)   Two forms of I.D. (one being picture); and
         (b)   If renting: lease or rental agreement; or
         (c)   If buying: proof of purchase or purchase agreement.
      (2)   Shut-off fee: $40.
      (3)   Deposits:
 
    $125 Deposit
+  $15 Service Fee
    $140 Total
 
      (4)   Transfer of deposit: $15 transfer fee.
      (5)   Qualifications:
         (a)   Good credit history; and
         (b)   Turn off of present address within same week as turning on new
service address.
      (6)   Deposit policy: the deposit will only be applied to an account
after the account has been disconnected. We will not allow use of the deposit
as payment for any designated bill from said utilities.
   (D)   All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herein are hereby
repealed; provided, however, that the existing schedule of rates and charges
shall remain in full force and effect until a tariff containing the schedule of
rates and charges fixed by this section.
   (E)   The Town Council hereby authorizes the Town Council President and
legal counsel for the Council to take any and all necessary steps to act on
behalf of the Council to comply with any and all state agencies, regulations
and the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission, if necessary, to comply with the
law for the new rates and charges referenced herein. The town has opted out of
the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission; however, in the event the water
works utility comes under their jurisdiction said authorizations shall be
permitted.
   (F)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by such tenant or tenants, provided that such examination shall
be made at the office at which said records are kept and during the hours that
such office is open for business.
(Ord. 14-7-2014, passed 5-12-2014)
CHAPTER 53:  WASTE WATER
Section
   
53.01   Rates and charges
   
53.02   Waste water utility deposits
§ 53.01  RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Generally. There shall be and there are hereby established for
the services rendered by the town waste water utility, the following rates and
charges, during each monthly billing period:
Waste Water Base Rates
Monthly Base Charge Present Rates
Waste Water Base Rates
Monthly Base Charge                                    Present Rates
5/8 or 3/4 inch meter                                  $17.00
1-inch meter                                           $30.65
1-1/4-inch meter                                       $44.25
1-1/2-inch meter                                       $60.65
2-inch meter                                           $98.80
3-inch meter                                           $217.00
4-inch meter                                           $371.65
6-inch meter                                           $835.45
Monthly treatment charge (per 1,000 gallons per month) $4.35
 
      (2)   Single-residential home customers. All single-residential customers
shall be charged the same base rate. Said base rate shall be calculated based
on the meter size at three-fourths-inch meter.
      (3)   Non-meter waste water utility customers. All non-meter waste water
utility customers shall be billed a fixed rate. For users of the waste water
utility that are unmetered water users or accurate meter readings are not
available, the monthly charge shall be determined by equivalent single-family
dwelling units, except as herein provided. Waste water bills shall be rendered
once each month (or period equaling a month). The schedule on which said rates
and charges shall be determined as follows:
 
Present Rates
$38.70
 
      (4)   Connection charges. Each user at the time he or she is connected
for the first time with the waste water system shall pay $750. There shall be a
$25 inspection fee.
      (5)   Deposit. There shall be a $125 deposit on each new account. The
deposit will only be applied to an account after the account has been declared
more than 60 days in arrears and the customer has moved from the residence. The
town will not allow the use of the deposit as payment for any regular bill from
the waste water utility.
   (B)   All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herein are hereby
repealed; provided, however, that the existing schedule of rates and charges
shall remain in full force and effect until a tariff containing the schedule of
rates and charges fixed by this section.
   (C)   The Town Council hereby authorizes the Council President and legal
counsel for the Council to take any and all necessary steps to act on behalf of
the Council to comply with any and all state agencies, regulations and the
Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission, if necessary, to comply with the law for
the new rates and charges referenced herein. The town has opted out of the
Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission; however, in the event the waste water
utility comes under their jurisdiction said authorizations shall be permitted.
(Ord. 14-6-2014, passed 5-28-2014; Ord. 12-2015, passed 10-13-2015)
§ 53.02  WASTE WATER UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The Town Council may require the owners, lessees or users of
property served by the works to pay a deposit to ensure payment of sewer fees.
      (2)   The deposit required may not exceed the estimated average payment
due from the property served by the sewage works for a three-month period. The
deposit must be retained in a separate fund.
      (3)   The deposit, less any outstanding penalties and service fees, shall
be refunded to the depositor after a notarized statement from the depositor
that as of a certain date the property being served:
         (a)   Has been conveyed or transferred to another person; or
         (b)   No longer uses or is connected with any part of the municipal
sewage system.
      (4)   A statement must include the name and address of the person to whom
the property is conveyed or transferred.
      (5)   If a depositor fails to satisfy costs and fees within 60 days after
the termination of his or her use or ownership of the property served, he or
she forfeits his or her deposit and all accrued interest. The forfeited amount
shall be applied to the depositor’s outstanding fees. Any excess that remains
due after application of the forfeiture may be collected in the manner
prescribed by I.C. 36-9-23-31 or I.C. 36-9-23-32. A deposit may be used to
satisfy all or part of any judgment awarded the municipality under I.C. 36-9-
23-31. A deposit that has remained unclaimed by the depositor for more than
seven years after the termination of the services for which the deposit was
made becomes the property of the municipality. I.C. 32-34-1 (unclaimed
property) does not apply to such deposits.
(I.C. 36-9-23-28)
   (B)   Unclaimed overpayments; waste water utilities. An overpayment of sewer
fees by an owner, lessee or user of property served by the sewage works that
remains unclaimed for more than seven years after the termination of the
service for which overpayment was made becomes the property of the town.
(I.C. 36-9-23-28.5)
   (C)   Unclaimed water, gas and electric utility deposits.
      (1)   I.C. 32-34-1-1 exempts unclaimed meter deposits required by a
municipally owned water, gas or electric utility from the requirements of the
Unclaimed Property Act.
      (2)   These unclaimed meter deposits may be transferred to the utility’s
operating fund in accordance with the utility’s written policy covering such
deposits.
Cross-reference:
   For specific deposit amounts, see §
53.01
CHAPTER 54:  STORM WATER
Section
   
54.01   Rates and charges
§ 54.01  RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   There shall be and there are hereby established for the services
rendered by the town storm water utility the following rates and charges,
during each monthly billing period:
 
Storm Water Utility Charges
                         Present Rate
Monthly flat rate charge $7.70
 
   (B)   All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herein are hereby
repealed; provided, however, that the existing schedule of rates and charges
shall remain in full force and effect until a tariff containing the schedule of
rates and charges fixed by this section.
   (C)   The Town Council hereby authorizes the Council President and legal
counsel for the Council to take any and all necessary steps to act on behalf of
the Council to comply with any and all state agencies, regulations, and the
Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission, if necessary, to comply with the law for
the new rates and charges referenced herein. The town has opted out of the
Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission; however, in the event the storm water
utility comes under their jurisdiction said authorizations shall be permitted.
(Ord. 14-8-2014, passed 5-12-2014)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES AND REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING RULES AND REGULATIONS
      
73.   PEDESTRIANS
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Prohibiting operation of motor vehicles upon or over the levee
   
70.02   Cost for checks of the title with Bureau of Motor Vehicles
Words and Phrases Defined
   
70.15   Definitions
   
70.99   Traffic Code penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  PROHIBITING OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES UPON OR OVER THE LEVEE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firms or corporations to
operate a motor vehicle upon or over the levee of the town, which has been
constructed under law, except for the purpose of:
   (A)   Passing over the levee:
      (1)   At a public or private crossing; or
      (2)   Upon a part of a public highway.
   (B)   Inspection or repair.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02  COST FOR CHECKS OF THE TITLE WITH BUREAU OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Hereinafter, all checks of record performed by an employee of the town shall
be paid for by the person requesting the record check, by payment of the sum of
$5 to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town for each record check.
(Ord. 17-1997, passed 4-14-1997)
WORDS AND PHRASES DEFINED
§ 70.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (A)   Vehicles and equipment.
      AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department and police
vehicles; also privately owned ambulances when on emergency calls.
      BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying passengers for hire and
used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle other than a
taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
      OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle, or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then the conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purpose of this title.
      PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
      PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association or
corporation.
      POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or
to make arrests for violation of traffic regulations in this town.
      TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property.
      VEHICLE. Every device including bicycles, in, upon or by which any person
or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway.
   (B)   Highways, restricted districts; defined.
      ALLEY. Any publicly maintained thoroughfare designed and constructed
primarily for the use of service or from or upon which entry is made to the
rear entrance of the majority of residences or business establishments
adjoining.
      BUSINESS DISTRICT. National Avenue from the east boundary line of the
town to the west boundary line of the town; also, Paris Avenue from the east
boundary of the town to the intersection of North Third Street and the Paris
Avenue in the town are hereby designated BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
      CROSSWALKS. That portion of a roadway at an intersection included within
the prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of the sidewalks from the
curb to the opposite curbs when unmarked.
      INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of
the lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and
devices, not inconsistent with this chapter placed or erected by authority of
the Town Council for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
      RESIDENCE DISTRICT. All other territory contiguous to and including all
other streets and highways in the town other than that described in the
definition of business districtabove.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the highway.
      ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
      SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
      STREET, HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purpose of vehicular travel.
      THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof at the entrances to
which vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to stop
before entering or crossing the same where stop signs are erected as provided
in this chapter.
      TRAILER. A vehicle that is hauled by another vehicle, also a vehicle
equipped to serve wherever it is parked as a dwelling or as a place of
business.
      TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular portable structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and
vacation, factory equipped for the road. TRAVEL TRAILER also means a camper-
type trailer which is designed for use on a truck.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)
§ 70.99  TRAFFIC CODE PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or persons, firms or corporations violating the provisions
of §
70.01 shall, upon convictions thereof, be fined not more than $100.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC RULES AND REGULATIONS
Section
Traffic Signs, Signals and Markings
   
71.01   Obedience to official traffic control devices
   
71.02   Traffic control signal legend and locations
   
71.03   Obedience to no-turn signs and turning markers
   
71.04   Installation and maintenance of traffic control devices
Through Streets and Stop Signs
   
71.15   Stop signs at intersections
School Zones and Speed Limits
   
71.30   School zones
   
71.31   Speed limit in school zones
Operation of Vehicles
   
71.45   Stopping at intersections
   
71.46   Driving through processions
   
71.47   Funeral processions
   
71.48   Limitations on turning
   
71.49   Limitations on backing
   
71.50   Emerging from an alley or private driveway
   
71.51   Vehicles shall not be driven on the sidewalk
   
71.52   Officer authorized to remove illegally stopped vehicles
TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
§ 71.01  OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto and placed in accordance with the
traffic ordinances of this town unless otherwise directed by a police officer,
subject to the exceptions granted the driver of any authorized emergency
vehicle in this chapter.
   (B)   No provision of this chapter for which signs are required shall be
enforced against the alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged
violation an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section
does not state that signs are required, the section shall be effective without
signs being erected to give notice thereof.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02  TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND AND LOCATIONS.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting the
words “go,” “caution” or “stop,” or exhibiting different colored lights
successively, the following colors only shall be used and the terms and lights
shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
   (A)   Green alone or green accompanied by the word “go”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, may proceed straight through
or turn right or left, unless a sign at the place prohibits either the turn.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic shall yield right- of-way to other vehicles and
to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time the signal is
exhibited.
   (B)   Red alone or red accompanied by the word “stop”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at the other point as may be indicated
by a clearly visible line and shall so remain until green or “go” is shown
alone, except as provided in division (B)(2) below.
      (2)   Where no sign is placed prohibiting such a turn, vehicular traffic
facing a steady red signal, after coming to a complete stop, may cautiously
enter the intersection to make a right turn or, if turning from the left lane
of a one-way street to another one-way street with the flow of traffic, a left
turn after stopping as required by division (B)(1) above. The vehicular traffic
shall yield the right-of- way to pedestrians and to other traffic using the
intersection.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03  OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS AND TURNING MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or
“U” turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the direction of
any such signs and when authorized marks, buttons or other indications are
placed within an intersection to direct the course of vehicles turning thereat,
no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the indications.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04  INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   All traffic control signs, signals and devices installed in the town shall
conform to the Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets
and Highways as approved by the Indiana State Highway Commission. All signs and
signals required hereunder for the particular purpose shall so far as
practicable be uniform as to type and location throughout. All traffic control
devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or
this chapter shall be official traffic control devices.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)
THROUGH STREETS AND STOP SIGNS
§ 71.15  STOP SIGNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   Stop signs shall be erected at all streets intersecting said through streets
and all vehicles shall stop before entering or crossing said through streets.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHOOL ZONES AND SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.30  SCHOOL ZONES.
   One block in all directions from and around each school in the Town of West
Terre Haute is hereby declared a designated school zone.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)
§ 71.31  SPEED LIMIT IN SCHOOL ZONES.
   Speed of motor vehicles shall not exceed 15 mph in a school zone.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
OPERATION OF VEHICLES
§ 71.45  STOPPING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   When stop signs are erected upon highways intersecting a through street at
the entrances thereto or at the entrance to any intersection, every driver of a
vehicle shall stop at every stop sign or at a clearly marked stop line before
entering the intersection except when directed to proceed by a police officer
or traffic control signal.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.46  DRIVING THROUGH PROCESSIONS.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral
or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when the vehicles
are conspicuously designated as required in this chapter. This provision shall
not apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic control signs
or police officers.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.47  FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   Funeral processions shall have the right-of-way at intersections when
vehicles comprising the processions have their bright headlights lighted,
subject to the following conditions and exceptions:
   (A)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the right-
of-way upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle giving audible
signal by siren;
   (B)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the right-
of-way when directed to do so by a traffic officer;
   (C)   The operator of the leading vehicle in a funeral procession shall
comply with stop signs and traffic control signals, but when the leading
vehicle has proceeded across an intersection in accordance with the signal or
after stopping as required by the stop sign, if a guard has been posted to halt
crossing traffic, all vehicles in the procession may proceed without stopping,
regardless of the sign or signal. If no guard is provided, each car in the
procession may proceed after exercising due caution with regard to crossing
traffic;
(I.C. 9-21-13-1)
   (D)   The operator of a vehicle not in the funeral procession shall not
drive his or her vehicle between the vehicles of the funeral procession, except
when authorized to do so by a traffic officer or when the vehicle is an
authorized emergency vehicle giving audible signal by siren;
(I.C. 9-21-13-2)
   (E)   Operators of vehicles not a part of a funeral procession shall not
form a procession and have their headlights lighted for the purpose of securing
their right-of-way granted by this section to funeral processions;
(I.C. 9-21-13-3)
   (F)   The lead vehicle in the funeral procession may be equipped with a
flashing amber light which may be used only when the vehicle is used as a lead
vehicle in the procession. Vehicles comprising a funeral procession shall
utilize funeral pennants or flags and/or windshield stickers to identify the
individual vehicles in a procession; and
(I.C. 9-21-13-4, 9-21-13-5)
   (G)   The operator of any vehicle may pass a funeral procession on its left
side on any multiple lane highway, whenever the passing can be done safely.
(I.C. 9-21-13-6)
(Ord. 2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.48  LIMITATIONS ON TURNING.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction upon any street in a business district.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle shall not upon any other street so turn a
vehicle unless the movement can be made in safety, and without interfering with
other traffic.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.49  LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same into an intersection or over
a sidewalk and shall not, in any event or at any place, back a vehicle unless
the movement can be made in safety.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.50  EMERGING FROM AN ALLEY OR PRIVATE DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from an alley, driveway or building shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving onto a sidewalk or into the sidewalk area extending across an alleyway
or private driveway.
(I.C. 9-21-8-42)  (Ord. 2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.51  VEHICLES SHALL NOT BE DRIVEN ON THE SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within, or over, any sidewalk area
except a permanent or a temporary driveway.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.52  OFFICER AUTHORIZED TO REMOVE ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES.
   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, the officer is hereby
authorized to require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to
move the same to a position off the paved or improved or main traveled part of
the highway, provided that if any person so directed shall fail or refuse to
move the vehicle or if the vehicle is unattended then the officer is hereby
authorized to provide for the removal of the vehicle to the nearest available
garage or other place of safety.
(I.C. 9-13-2-112)  (Ord. 2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING RULES AND REGULATIONS
Section
Stopping, Standing and Parking
   
72.01   Parking prohibited on narrow streets
   
72.02   Parking adjacent to schools
   
72.03   Parking prohibited in certain places
   
72.04   Special parking time limits in designated places
   
72.05   Parking in bus and taxicab stands
   
72.06   Standing or parking close to curb   
   
72.07   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in specified places
Truck Parking and Loading Restrictions
   
72.20   Truck parking and loading restrictions
Bus Stop Zones
   
72.35   Bus stop zones
   
72.36   No parking in bus stop zones
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
§ 72.01  PARKING PROHIBITED ON NARROW STREETS.
   When signs prohibiting parking are erected on narrow streets, no person
shall park a vehicle at any designated place.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02  PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   When signs are erected indicating no parking upon that side of the street
adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a vehicle in any
designated place.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03  PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street in such
a manner or under the conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of
width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic, except that a
driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or unloading of
passengers or when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic
signs, signals or a police officer.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in the space between
the property lines.
   (C)   When official signs or markings are erected or painted giving notice
thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time upon the streets or parts
of streets except for the purpose of loading or unloading materials,
merchandise or passengers and at no time for a period to exceed five minutes as
follows: entrances of any church, school, theater, motion picture house, bus
station, public meeting place or hall, town hall, fire and police stations.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or stop a motor vehicle
over and along the west side of South Seventh Street from the south side of
National Avenue for a distance of 50 feet. It shall be unlawful for any person
to park or stop a motor vehicle over and along the east side of South Seventh
Street from the south side of National Avenue for a distance of 25 feet.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04  SPECIAL PARKING TIME LIMITS IN DESIGNATED PLACES.
   When signs are erected by order of the Town Council in special designated
places, no person shall park a vehicle longer than the stated time at those
places.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05  PARKING IN BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   The driver of a taxicab shall not stand or park upon any street in the
business district of this town at any place other than a taxicab stand, except
that this provision shall not prevent the driver of any such vehicle from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations,
at any time for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in, loading or
unloading passengers.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any stop or stand
has been officially marked or signed, except that the driver of a passenger
vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading passengers when the stopping does not interfere
with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter the stop or stand.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06  STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway, headed in the direction of traffic, and with the
curb side wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the edge of the roadway.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07  STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or to avoid conflict with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic control device in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail or railroad crossing;
      (9)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station or on
the side of a street opposite the entrance when properly signed or marked;
      (10)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
the stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (11)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (12)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
      (13)   Within bus zones; and
      (14)   At any time on Macksville between National and Paris Avenues.
   (B)   No person, other than a police officer, shall move a vehicle not owned
by the person into any prohibited area or away from a curb the distances as is
unlawful.
   (C)   No trailer, travel trailers or motorized homes of any type shall be
parked on a street or in an alley.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
TRUCK PARKING AND LOADING RESTRICTIONS
§ 72.20  TRUCK PARKING AND LOADING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No truck, tractor, trailer or tractor-trailer exceeding one and one-
half-ton capacity shall park on streets or alleys within the congested district
of the town except for the purpose of loading or unloading freight or
merchandise.
   (B)   No truck, tractor, trailer or tractor-trailer exceeding a one and one-
half-ton capacity shall park on streets or alleys within the residential
district of the town except for the purpose of loading or unloading freight or
merchandise.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
BUS STOP ZONES
§ 72.35  BUS STOP ZONES.
   Bus stop zones shall be designated by appropriate signs and markings on
order of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)
§ 72.36  NO PARKING IN BUS STOP ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any motor vehicle or other
vehicles to stop, stand or park the same at any time in any bus stop zone
provided that this section shall not apply to any bus operated by the town
transit utility or its successors operating a regular bus line between the City
of Terre Haute, Indiana, and the Town of West Terre Haute, Indiana.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73:  PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
73.01   Pedestrians subject to traffic control signals
   
73.02   Pedestrians’ right-of-way at crosswalks
§ 73.01  PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals at intersections as
heretofore declared in this chapter, but at all other places pedestrians shall
be accorded the privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions stated in
this chapter.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)
§ 73.02  PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-OF-WAY AT CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way slowing down or stopping if
need be, so to yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian crossing the roadway
within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon
which the vehicle is traveling or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely
from the opposite half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian
shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the
path of a vehicle which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to
yield.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
(Ord. 2, passed - -)
CHAPTER 74:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Stop signs at intersections
   
III.   Through streets and stop signs
SCHEDULE I.  SPEED LIMITS.
 
Description
Speed of motor vehicles shall not exceed 20 mph in a school zone during school
hours.
Speed of all vehicles on National Avenue, North Third Street and Paris Avenue
shall conform with posted speed limit signs and state regulations.
Speed of all vehicles on any other street in the town shall be limited to 30
mph.
 
(Ord. 2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II.  STOP SIGNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
Street At Direction
Street               At             Direction
Cherry Grove         6th Street     (All-way)
Cherry Grove         7th Street     (All-way)
Cherry Grove         8th Street     (All-way)
Cherry Grove         9th Street     (All-way)
Edwards Street       3rd Street     (All-way)
Edwards Street       4th Street     (All-way)
Edwards Street       5th Street     (All-way)
Edwards Street       6th Street     (All-way)
Edwards Street       7th Street     (All-way)
Edwards Street       8th Street     (All-way)
Edwards Street       9th Street     (All-way)
Faulkes              8th Street     (1-way) eastbound
Faulkes              9th Street     (1-way) westbound
Ferris Avenue        6th Street     (All-way)
Ferris Avenue        7th Street     (All-way)
Ferris Avenue        8th Street     (All-way)
Ferris Avenue        9th Street     (All-way)
Ferris Avenue        10th Street    (1-way) northbound
Ferris Avenue        Olive Street   (All-way)
Fifth Street         Riggy          (All-way)
Johnson Avenue       4th Street     (1-way) northbound
Johnson Avenue       6th Street     (All-way)
Johnson Avenue       7th Street     (All-way)
Johnson Avenue       Arthur         (1-way) northbound
Johnson Avenue       Church         (All-way)
Johnson Avenue       Macksville     (1-way) eastbound
Johnson Avenue       McIlroy        (All-way)
Johnson Avenue       Sumner         (All-way)
Lee Avenue           3rd Street     (All-way)
Lee Avenue           4th Street     (All-way)
Lee Avenue           5th Street     (All-way)
Lee Avenue           Church         (1-way) southbound
Lee Avenue           McIlroy Street (All-way)
Leon Street          3rd Street     (All-way)
Leon Street          4th Street     (All-way)
Leon Street          5th Street     (2-way) east and westbound
Miller Avenue        4th Street     (All-way)
Miller Avenue        6th Street     (All-way)
Miller Avenue        7th Street     (All-way)
Miller Avenue        8th Street     (All-way)
Miller Avenue        9th Street     (All-way)
Miller Avenue        Arthur         (1-way) southbound
Miller Avenue        Church         (2-way) north and southbound
Miller Avenue        Macksville     (1-way) eastbound
Miller Avenue        McIlroy        (2-way) north and southbound
Miller Avenue        Sumner         (All-way)
Olive                4th Street     (All way)
Olive                5th Street     (All-way)
Paris Avenue         4th Street     (1-way) southbound
Paris Avenue         6th Street     (1-way) northbound
Paris Avenue         7th Street     (1-way) northbound
Paris Avenue         8th Street     (1-way) northbound
Paris Avenue         9th Street     (1-way) northbound
Paris Avenue         Church         (1-way) northbound
Paris Avenue         Macksville     (1-way) northbound
Paris Avenue         McIlroy        (1-way) northbound
Paris Avenue         Sumner         (1-way) northbound
Poplar Street        3rd Street     (2-way) north and southbound
Poplar Street        4th Street     (All-way)
Poplar Street        5th Street     (All-way)
Poplar Street        6th Street     (All-way)
Poplar Street        7th Street     (All-way)
Poplar Street        8th Street     (All-way)
Poplar Street        9th Street     (All-way)
Poplar Street        McIlroy        (1-way) southbound
Ratcliff             6th Street     (All-way)
Ratcliff             7 Street       (All-way)
Ratcliff             9th Street     (All-way)
Ratcliff             10th Street    (1-way) northbound
Ratcliff             Olive          (1-way) southbound
Riggy Avenue         3th Street     (All-way)
Riggy Avenue         4th Street     (All-way)
Riggy Avenue         5th Street     (All-way)
Riggy Avenue         McIlroy        (2-way) east and west
Riggy Avenue         McIlroy        (2-way)
Third and Leon North South          (2-way)
 
(Ord. 2-2000, passed 9-5-2000; Ord. passed 7-10-2000)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III.  THROUGH STREETS AND STOP SIGNS.
   Stop signs shall be erected at all streets intersecting the through streets
and all vehicles shall stop before entering or crossing the through streets.
 
Avenue/Street      From                          To
Macksville Avenue  North side of National Avenue South side of Paris Avenue
National Avenue    West boundary line            East boundary line
North Third Street North side of National Avenue North boundary line
Paris Avenue       West boundary line            East boundary line
 
(Ord. 2, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   NUISANCES
      
94.   WEEDS
      
95.   NOISE
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Editor’s note:
   The town has adopted the Vigo County animal control ordinance (passed 9-9-
2013) as the basis for its animal regulations.
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Purpose
   
90.002   Definitions
Registrations
   
90.015   Pet registration
   
90.016   Rescue registration
   
90.017   Sanctuary registration
   
90.018   Commercial animal establishment registration
   
90.019   Special registrations
   
90.020   Inspection
   
90.021   Renewal date
   
90.022   Location for registration
General Animal Care
   
90.035   Food and water
   
90.036   Shelter
   
90.037   Environment
   
90.038   Veterinary care
   
90.039   Rabies vaccine
   
90.040   Animals in vehicles
   
90.041   Transport of animals
   
90.042   Abandonment
   
90.043   Animal in heat
   
90.044   Wire cages
   
90.045   Disposal of dead animals
   
90.046   Farm operations
Public Nuisances
   
90.060   Animal running at large
   
90.061   Interfering with traffic
   
90.062   School grounds
   
90.063   Property damage
   
90.064   Noise
   
90.065   Odors
   
90.066   Fee for returned animal
Vicious or Dangerous Animals
   
90.080   Confinement
   
90.081   Destruction of animal
   
90.082   Wolf hybrids and coydogs prohibited
Bite Reporting/Quarantine
   
90.095   Bites
   
90.096   Non-immunization
Animal Cruelty
   
90.110   Cruelty to an animal
   
90.111   Animal fighting
Breeder Permits for Companion Animals
   
90.125   Hobby breeder
   
90.126   Commercial breeder
Wild and Exotic Animals
   
90.140   Generally
Enforcement
   
90.155   Inspection
   
90.156   Disposition of monies
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001  PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to encourage responsible pet ownership and
to encourage the spaying or neutering of “companion animals” (pets) to minimize
the unwanted or unplanned pet population, to provide for the humane care of all
animals as outlined by 9 C.F.R. Part 3.1, 345 I.A.C. 14, I.C. 35-46-3, and to
provide for the public welfare and safety under federal, state and local
guidelines.
§ 90.002  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERED ANIMAL. Any animal that has been sterilized by spaying or neutering
and can no longer procreate.
   ANIMAL AT LARGE. Any animal that is allowed to run at will and is not under
restraint. An animal that is allowed to leave the property of the owner.
   ANIMAL RESCUE. Any registered person(s) or organization who house and
provide intermediate care or aid for animals while awaiting permanent
placement.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility operated by a humane society, municipal agency
or its authorized agents, for the purpose of impounding or caring for animals
held under the authority of ordinance or state statute.
   ANIMAL WELFARE ORGANIZATION. Any not-for-profit organization working to
improve the quality of life for animals (incorporated under state statutes).
   ATTACK. An unprovoked attack in an aggressive manner on a human or other
animal that includes a bite, or causes a scratch, abrasion, bruising or any
other bodily harm that might require first aid, medical treatment, veterinary
care or death.
   BITE REPORTING. A bite to a human or domestic animal including livestock by
a dog must be reported to local law enforcement.
   BREEDER. Any person or entity that intentionally or unintentionally causes
or allows the breeding of any cat or dog. Makes any cat or dog available for
breeding or offers for sale, sells or trades, receives any compensation for, or
gives away any cats or dogs. Does not include livestock, birds, fish, reptiles
or insects.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any pet shop, pet grooming shop or kennel
used to board or care for pets for a fee. This definition does not include
veterinary offices or hospitals.
   COMMERCIAL BREEDER. Any person or entity engaged in reproducing dogs or cats
for a profit.
   COMPANION ANIMAL/PETS. Any dog or cat that reasonably appears to be a pet
for the purpose of this chapter; this definition does not include small
rodents, reptiles, insects, fish or birds. Any animal which is used for food
purposes or the health or well being of the animal’s owner/custodian, is not a
COMPANION ANIMAL.
   CONSTRICTING SNAKE. Any snake that captures its prey by constricting its
body and/or bite to kill or injure its victim. See 18 U.S.C. § 42(a)(1).
   COYDOG. An animal created by breeding a domesticated dog with a coyote or
animal that is the offspring of a coyote.
   CRUELTY. To beat, torture, mutilate, overload, overwork, cruelly treat or
otherwise abuse any animal so as to result in serious bodily injury or death of
the animal. Procedures performed by a licensed veterinarian, or a person
operating an agricultural business, using generally accepted practices related
to animal husbandry, at the request of the owner or veterinarian, which are
cosmetic or for any other legitimate reason, other than to inflict bodily harm
on the animal, is not CRUELTY. See 345 I.A.C.14-2-1 through 14-2-5.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal which presents a substantial threat of bodily
harm to any person or animal in its vicinity or if it was to escape its primary
enclosure or escape from the control of its owner or custodian. Such
determination is to be made from past acts of aggressive behavior justifying
the determination that it is a dangerous animal. A dog’s breed shall not be
considered in determining whether or not it is dangerous. No dog may be
declared dangerous if a threat, injury or damage was sustained by a person who,
at the time, was committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises
occupied by the owner and keeper of the dog. Also if the person was teasing,
tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog or has in the past, been observed and
reported to have teased, tormented, abused or assaulted the dog or was
committing or attempting to commit a crime on the property of the owner.
   DOG FIGHTING. Any fighting contest between dogs either for profit or not for
profit in which dogs are intentionally used to provide entertainment to
spectators or any event promoting organizing or staging a dog fight, or attends
a dog fight with an animal in possession.
   DOG RUNNING AT LARGE. Any dog not under immediate control of its owner and
not confined within the property limits of the dog’s owner.
   EMERGENCY ACTION PLAN. A detailed plan to describe what resources, personnel
and procedures are to be used in case of release of exotic or wild animal(s)
from the confines of owner’s primary enclosure for said animal(s) or escape of
animal from property of owner. This plan is to include how and what method(s)
to be used to re-secure the animals in their primary enclosure.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal whose normal native habitat is not indigenous to
the United States. EXOTIC ANIMALS shall not include any animal which has been
domesticated and are regularly sold by commercial animal establishments and are
regularly accepted as pets. See the Wildlife Safety Act, the Wild Bird
Conservation Act and the Endangered Species Act, 312 I.A.C. 9-11-1, 312 I.A.C.
9-11-8 - Class III.
   FARMING OPERATION. Any operation that sells at least $1,000 of agricultural
commodities or that would have sold that amount of produce under normal
circumstances.
   FERAL CAT. A cat that is un-socialized to humans, whose temperament is one
of extreme fear and avoids contact with humans.
   FIGHTING DOG. A dog that is intentionally bred, trained or actually used in
a dog fight. A dog does not constitute a FIGHTING DOG based solely on its
breed.
   HARBORING/OWNER. The actions of any person that habitually permits any
animal to remain, lodge or feed within his or her home, store, enclosure, yard
or place of business or premises on which such person resides or controls. Any
animal shall be considered HARBORED/OWNED if it is sheltered for five days.
Those who temporarily keep animals, such as pet shops, veterinarians, kennels,
shelters, rescues or stables, shall not be considered OWNERS.
   HOBBY BREEDER. Any person or entity who owns a maximum of three breeding age
dogs or cats who desires to produce a limited number of offspring as a hobby or
to enhance the characteristics of the breed, or to ensure the linage of the
animal.
   IMMUNIZATIONS. The administering of normally accepted vaccines to an animal
to prevent the introduction of disease that is common in a certain type of
animal specifically, dogs or cats, which is approved by USDA or by the Indiana
Board of Animal Health.
   MICROCHIP. A microchip RFID (radio frequency identification device) is a
computer chip implanted under the skin of an animal (in the universal position
between the scapulas) which contains information relating to that animal.
   PET SHOP. Any retail establishment engaging in the purchase and/or sale of
cats and dogs, either solely or in addition to the purchase and/or sale of any
other species of animal, excluding fish.
   POISONOUS SNAKES OR REPTILES. Any snake or reptile that is capable of
introducing poison into a human body by biting, scratching or spraying.
   POSSESSION OF DOG FIGHTING PARAPHERNALIA. A breaking stick, cat mill, spring
pole, weighted or non-weighted chain collar weighing ten pounds or more,
leather collar with a strap more than two inches in width, fighting pit/ring,
controlled substance or prescription drug that has not been prescribed by a
licensed veterinarian.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal that is unrestrained, interferes with vehicular
traffic, trespasses, damages property, creates excessive noise, generates foul
or noxious odors, or chases pedestrians.
   RABIES VACCINATION. An injection by a licensed veterinarian of a dog, cat or
ferret with a rabies vaccine licensed by the USDA and approved by the Indiana
Board of Animal Health (BOAH) according to the compendium for rabies published
yearly.
   REGISTRATION. The process in which animals, breeders, rescues, sanctuaries,
commercial animal establishments provide necessary information to comply with
this chapter. Does not include livestock, pet stores or veterinary offices.
   RESCUE. Any non-profit organization that is properly licensed and registered
to provide immediately needed essential services to animals to prevent or
relieve suffering or abuse and to provide care to animals when intervention is
necessary.
   RESTRAINT. The securing of an animal by a leash or lead or confining it
within the real property of the owner.
   SANCTUARY. A facility that rescues and provides shelter and care for animals
that have been abused, injured, abandoned or are otherwise in need, where the
welfare of each individual animal shall be the primary consideration in ail
sanctuary actions,
   STRAY. Any animal that does not appear, after reasonable inquiry, to have an
ascertainable owner.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that display an intensely aggressive behavior
toward humans or other animals and makes repeated attempts to attack without
provocation.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal that is indigenous to the continental United States
and usually found in the wild, but has been taken into captivity. See 312
I.A.C. 9-11-2, 312 I.A.C.  9-11-8 - Class III.
   WOLF HYBRID. An animal created by breeding a domesticated dog with a wolf or
animal that is the offspring of a wolf.
Statutory reference:
   Animal at large, see I.C. 15-17-18-8 and I.C. 8-17-1-2.1
   Attack, see I.C. 15-20-1-4
   Bite reporting as it applies to dogs, see I.C. 35-47-7-4
   Coydog, see I.C. 15-20-1-5
   Cruelty, see I.C. 35-46-3
   Dog fighting, see I.C. 35-46-3-9
   Dog running at large, see  I.C. 15-17-18-8
   Possession of dog fighting paraphernalia, see I.C. 35-46-3-8.5
   Wild animal, see I.C. 14-22-26-3
   Wolf hybrid, see I.C. 15-20-1-5
REGISTRATIONS
§ 90.015  PET REGISTRATION.
   Pet owners must register their pets with the town. For the purpose of this
section PET is limited to dogs, cats and ferrets. Registration fee is $5 for
each animal they own to be paid annually. Upon renewal of the pet’s
registration any animal that has been spayed or neutered will be exempt from
the renewal fee. The owner will receive a tag that must be displayed on a
collar on each animal or have another means of identifying the animal such as a
microchip. Feral cats are exempt from this section.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.016  RESCUE REGISTRATION.
   Any rescue having more than ten animals must be registered with the town.
There is an annual registration fee of $25. A rescue operation may not contact
the town requesting pick up or disposal of an animal under its control unless
the rescue operation is prepared to pay the cost the town will incur boarding
or disposing of the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.017  SANCTUARY REGISTRATION.
   Any sanctuary having more than ten animals must register with the town.
There is an annual registration fee of $25. A sanctuary operation may not
contact the town requesting pick up or disposal of an animal under its control
unless the sanctuary is prepared to pay the cost the town will incur boarding
or disposing of the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.018  COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT REGISTRATION.
   Individuals or corporations owning or operating a commercial animal
establishment must register their business with the town. The cost of
registration is $100, to be paid annually.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.019  SPECIAL REGISTRATIONS.
   Owners who possess exotic animals, wild animals, poisonous snakes, reptiles
and constricting snakes are required to register their animal or animals with
the town. The cost is $25 per site, to be paid annually.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.020  INSPECTION.
   All registrations, and the property associated with those registrations, in
§§
90.016 through
90.019, are subject to periodic inspections by animal control, or law
enforcement, who believe there may be an ordinance violation occurring on the
property, as well as 9 C.F.R. Parts 3.1 through 3.19 and guidelines as set
forth by the Indiana State Board of Animal Health.
§ 90.021  RENEWAL DATE.
   January 1 shall be the renewal date for all registrations under this
section.
§ 90.022  LOCATION FOR REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   Registration forms will be located at the office of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   After completion, the forms can be returned with any required
registration fee to the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   All registrations, and any required registration fee, shall be
returned to the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer within 90 days from the
enactment of this chapter.
GENERAL ANIMAL CARE
§ 90.035  FOOD AND WATER.
   An owner must provide a sufficient supply of fresh potable water and an
adequate supply of nutritional food for the species.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.036  SHELTER.
   Owners of companion animals, horses and goats must provide adequate shelter
to protect the animal from sun, heat, cold, rain, ice, snow, wind and dampness
and the like. Shelter should be located in a shady area and provide reasonable
protection from the weather. Cardboard or fiberboard would not provide
acceptable protection.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.037  ENVIRONMENT.
   Animals that are confined within a kennel, cage, pen, building, shed, coop
and the like or tethered to a limited area shall not be forced to sit, stand,
walk or lay in their own excrement. Areas where animals are confined shall be
kept free of trash, junk and debris that could cause injury to the animal and
shall be kept clean to prevent the spread of disease.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.038  VETERINARY CARE.
   If animal is sick or diseased owner has the responsibility to provide care
as necessary to prevent suffering. Owners may be given 12 hours’ notice to
provide veterinary care for a sick or injured animal before being cited by the
town. Any animal observed to be in immediate danger may be removed from such
situation by the quickest and most reasonable means available. Treatment and
boarding of the animal shall be at the owner’s expense.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.039  RABIES VACCINE.
   Companion animals (including ferrets) must be vaccinated for rabies by six
months of age and re-vaccinated within 12 months of prior vaccination. An owner
must be able to provide proof of vaccination on request. Only a licensed
veterinarian can provide the vaccine.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.040  ANIMALS IN VEHICLES.
   No animal shall be left unattended in a vehicle when the conditions in the
vehicle would constitute a health hazard to the animal (extreme heat or cold).
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.041  TRANSPORT OF ANIMALS.
   No animal is to be transported in an open vehicle or trailer unless confined
in an appropriate manner intended to prevent the animal from jumping or being
thrown from the vehicle in an accident or rapid stop or other use of the
vehicle which could cause injury to the animal. No animal shall be transported
in the trunk of a vehicle. Companion animals transported in the open bed of a
vehicle must be restrained in a manner that is not life threatening to the
animal and protects the safety of the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.042  ABANDONMENT.
   No owner of an animal shall abandon said animal.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.043  ANIMAL IN HEAT.
   A female companion animal in heat must be confined in a building or secure
enclosure in such a manner that the animal cannot come in contact with a male
of the same species, except for planned breeding (permit required).
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.044  WIRE CAGES.
   (A)   Animals housed in wire cages must have a resting area where the animal
is not exposed to the wire floor.
   (B)   Animals must have an area large enough in which to receive the proper
exercise.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.045  DISPOSAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any animal that expires by any known or unknown means while under the
care, custody or control of the owner, must be disposed of within 24 hours of
time of death.
   (B)   Disposal is to be according to the guidelines set forth by the Indiana
Board of Animal Health (BOAH). See I.C. 15-17-11.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.046  FARM OPERATIONS.
   Farm operating is not allowed in the town.
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 90.060  ANIMAL RUNNING AT LARGE.
   Animals shall not run unrestrained away from an owner’s property and
control.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.061  INTERFERING WITH TRAFFIC.
   Owners shall prevent animals from interfering with passerby or passing
vehicles by entering upon roadway or shoulder of roadway.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.062  SCHOOL GROUNDS.
   Owners shall not allow animals to trespass or enter upon the grounds of a
school unless animal is restrained and under the owners direct control.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.063  PROPERTY DAMAGE.
   Owners shall not allow animal to cause damage to public or private property.
Owners will be responsible for cost to repair damages.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.064  NOISE.
   Owners shall not allow animal when confined to bark, whine, howl or make
other sounds common to its species in an excessive or continuous manner.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.065  ODORS.
   Owners are to prevent foul or noxious odors from the excrement or other
waste materials from their animal(s) which offends residents in the
neighborhood. This does not include odors produced by normal farm operations
using industry approved sanitation methods approved by the Indiana Department
of Environmental Management.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.066  FEE FOR RETURNED ANIMAL.
   Any companion animal found running at large and has proper registration will
be returned its registered owner without being placed in the care of the Terre
Haute Humane Society and if no other costs were incurred by the county, and the
owner is at the animals registered address, the fee will be $25. This fee will
be per occurrence per animal.
VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS
§ 90.080  CONFINEMENT.
   (A)   Vicious or dangerous companion animals must be humanely confined
inside a pen or kennel of adequate size.
   (B)   The pen or kennel may not share common fencing with the area or
perimeter fence. The pen or kennel must have secure sides at least six feet
high and a top attached to all sides. The sides must be buried two feet into
the ground or sunken into a concrete pad. The gate to the pen or kennel shall
be of the inward opening type and shall be locked, except when tending to the
animals need.
   (C)   A perimeter fence is required that surround the primary pen or kennel
and cannot be common to any side of the primary pen.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.081  DESTRUCTION OF ANIMAL.
   A vicious or dangerous companion animal may be destroyed by ordinance
enforcement authorities at the expense of the owner if destruction is necessary
to preserve the public health, safety and welfare of the community.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.082  WOLF HYBRIDS AND COYDOGS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. Pursuant to the authority granted under I.C. 15-20-1-5
(e), definitions as set forth in I.C. 15-20-1-5 apply.
   (B)   Prohibited. Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3-8(a), wolf hybrids and coydogs are
prohibited within the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the town.
Penalty, see §
90.999
BITE REPORTING/QUARANTINE
§ 90.095  BITES.
   (A)   All animal bites must be reported to local law enforcement or animal
control authority. Upon receiving a report of a bite, the animal may be
quarantined for ten days with the place of confinement to be at the discretion
of the local health officer, local law enforcement or animal control authority.
   (B)   During the quarantine period, the animal is to be securely and
humanely confined and be kept from contact with any other animal. If the animal
is confined in a manner other than the owner’s home, then said owner shall pay
all cost incurred during that confinement.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.096  NON-IMMUNIZATION.
   (A)   If an animal is not immunized for rabies, the owner will have 20 days
to have the animal vaccinated and will be cited for harboring a non-immunized
animal and fined.
   (B)   Owners will be responsible for any costs a victim incurs as a result
of the bite. This would include costs for another animal’s treatment. The owner
will also be responsible for all costs encountered by the town to affect
control of the animal.
   (C)   Section 90.081 may be applied at the town’s discretion.
Penalty, see §
90.999
ANIMAL CRUELTY
§ 90.110  CRUELTY TO AN ANIMAL.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Cruelty to an animal is considered to exist whether “active” as in
torture, torment, deprivation of necessary sustenance, failure to provide
necessary veterinary care, use of physical blows (beating), mutilation
(destruction of body parts), killing for any reason other than self-protection,
or to protect another human or animal from injury, or in some way acting as a
causative agent in the infliction of cruelty or passive cruelty as when there
is any omission resulting in the occurrence of pain, suffering (from any
cause), or death. Procedures performed by a licensed veterinarian, or a person
operating an agricultural business, using generally accepted practices related
to animal husbandry, at the request of the owner or veterinarian, which are
cosmetic or for any other legitimate reason, other than to inflict bodily harm
on the animal, is not cruelty.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to be responsible for or to permit an act of
cruelty toward an animal resulting in serious injury or death to the animal.
      (3)   No person shall expose any known poisonous substance, whether or
not mixed with food, so it shall be liable to be eaten or drank by any animal.
However, it will not be unlawful for a person to expose, on his or her
property, poison to a common rat or mouse by mixing poison with any food
substance.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to neglect or willfully fail to
provide food, potable drinking water, shelter or reasonable protection from the
weather thereby inflicting unnecessary cruelty on any animal.
      (5)   If an animal is tied out, it shall be considered cruelly treated if
it is hitched, tied or fastened by a choker collar which permits possible
strangulation. The device securing the animal should be at least five times the
length of the animal as measured from the nose to the base of the tail,
allowing access to shelter, shade and freedom of movement. The device should be
located in such a manner to prevent tangling.
      (6)   An individual lawfully live-trapping an animal must monitor their
traps every 24 hours.
      (7)   It is also cruelty to leave an animal inside a vehicle in weather
that is too extreme for the safety of the animal (hot or cold).
      (8)   It shall be considered cruel to deny an animal proper veterinary
care.
      (9)   Any person who is legally hunting or trapping an animal cannot be
charged with a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Owner’s duties; impoundment.
      (1)   If animal control or a police officer observes an animal that
appears to be sick or injured, the owner may be ordered to get veterinary care
for said animal within 12 hours from the time notified to do so.
      (2)   Any animal observed by animal control officers or police officers
to be in immediate danger may be removed from such situation by the quickest
and most reasonable method available and impounded. Any veterinary care needed
or provided to said animal shall be at the owner’s expense.
      (3)   In the event an animal is impounded by a police officer or animal
control officer pursuant to this chapter and, in addition to any other penalty
set out §
90.999(H) or court costs, the owner may be required to post a $300 bond with
the Clerk of the Court in which the ordinance violation statute is filed for
the costs associated with providing shelter for each impounded animal at an
animal control facility or humane society. The cost for providing shelter shall
be the amount approved annually by the Town Council. After disposition of the
underlying case, the bond money posted will be deposited in the fund which the
bill for the animal was paid from.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.111  ANIMAL FIGHTING.
   (A)   Ordinance enforcement authorities. The owner must be notified of the
animal’s impoundment and shall pay any costs as a result of impoundment.
   (B)   Ownership. It is illegal to own or have on the premises a breaking
stick, cat mill, spring pole, weighted or non-weighted chain collar weighing
ten pounds or more, leather or mesh collar with a strap more than two inches in
width, fighting pit/ring, controlled substance or prescription drug that has
not been prescribed by a licensed veterinarian.
Penalty, see §
90.999
BREEDER PERMITS FOR COMPANION ANIMALS
§ 90.125  HOBBY BREEDER.
   A hobby breeder:
   (A)   Will have a maximum of one unaltered female over the age of six
months, and one unaltered mal;
   (B)   Will allow only one litter per year, unless permitted in writing by a
licensed veterinarian;
   (C)   Will follow all divisions under §
90.126; and
   (D)   Will pay $25 annually for a hobby breeder’s permit.
Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.126  COMMERCIAL BREEDER.
   A commercial breeder:
   (A)   Will have a minimum of two and a maximum of 30 unaltered females over
the age of six months;
   (B)   Will allow only one litter per year for each unaltered female, unless
permitted in writing by a licensed veterinarian;
   (C)   Show evidence of an exercise area on the grounds;
   (D)   Provide all animals with comfortable accommodations allowing for free
movement;
   (E)   Will not sell, trade or give away an animal before eight weeks of age,
and ensure that the offspring, cat or dog has received their initial
immunizations;
   (F)   Be in compliance with all divisions of §§
90.035 through
90.046;
   (G)   All breeders will allow a periodic inspection of their facility; and
   (H)   Will purchase an annual commercial breeder’s permit for $100.
Penalty, see §
90.999
WILD AND EXOTIC ANIMALS
§ 90.140  GENERALLY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person to possess within the incorporated or
unincorporated boundaries of the town any dangerous exotic or wild animal
listed as a Class 2 or 3 animal (312 I.A.C. 9-11-7 and 9-11-8, as amended) that
are not properly licensed by the federal government, State of Indiana or the
state in which the owner of the exotic animal resides and could be a threat to
public safety or welfare.
   (B)   Additionally, any person who does possess a wild or exotic animal not
governed by the federal government, State of Indiana or the state in which the
owner of the exotic animal resides must comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Register the wild or exotic animal with the town; see §
90.019; and
      (2)   Provide an emergency action plan in the event of an accidental
release and provide proof of liability insurance.
   (C)   It is unlawful to purposefully or negligently release a wild or exotic
animal into the wild.
   (D)   Wild or exotic animals do not include small exotic nonpoisonous
reptiles, birds, fish or aquatic life normally accepted as pets.
Penalty, see §
90.999
ENFORCEMENT
§ 90.155  INSPECTION.
   Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of or perform any duty imposed by the chapter or when there is
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any building or upon any
premises any violation of the provisions of this chapter or of the Indiana
Code, the animal control officer, health officer or police officeris authorized
at all reasonable times to inspect the same for compliance with the provisions
of this chapter, or any state law, provided that:
   (A)   If the property is occupied, the officer shall first present the
proper credentials to the occupant and request entry explaining the reasons
therefore;
   (B)   If the property is unoccupied, the officer shall make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other persons having control of the property and
request entry explaining the reasons therefore; and
   (C)   If the property owner, or his or her representative, is on site and
objects to the inspection or cannot be located with reasonable effort, a valid
warrant shall be required prior to inspection.
§ 90.156  DISPOSITION OF MONIES.
   All monies generated or collected by virtue of the provisions of this
chapter are to be set aside and shall be placed in a non-reverting Animal
Control Fund to be used exclusively for animal welfare and control. Monies
located within the fund shall be appropriated by the Town Council.
§ 90.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who is found is possession of an un-registered animal after
90 days from enactment of this chapter, in violation of §
90.022, may be subject to a fine of up to $25.
   (C)   Persons violating §§
90.035 through
90.046 shall be fined up to $300.
   (D)   (1)   Each violation of §§
90.064 and
90.065 will result in a fine of up to $50 plus court costs. Each violation of
§§
90.060 through
90.063 will result in a fine of up to $100 plus court costs. After the first
citation for an animal running at large, any unaltered animals must be spayed
or neutered within 90 days at the owner’s expense. If owner appears in court
and provides proof of the animals being altered the fine will be reduced by
$50.
      (2)   Each 24-hour period that a violation occurs will be considered a
separate offense and cited as such.
   (E)   A violation of the specifications of confinement of a vicious or
dangerous animal, §
90.080,  will be fined up to $500 and court costs. The animal will be impounded
by animal control at the owner’s expense.
   (F)    Any person found to be in possession of a wolf hybrid or coydog
within the incorporated or unincorporated areas of the town, in violation of §
90.082, shall be fined up to the limits set forth in I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)(b).
   (G)   Any person cited for harboring a non- immunized animal in violation of
§
90.096 shall be fine of up to $300, plus court costs
   (H)   Violation of §
90.110 will result in a fine of up to $500 plus court costs for each offense.
In case of animal cruelty, the owner will pay the fine and court costs and the
animal may be removed and impounded at the local shelter. The owner shall pay
all costs incurred during the impoundment.
   (I)   Persons violating §
90.111 will be fined up to $500 for each offense and pay court costs.
   (J)   Each violation of §
90.126 shall be considered a separate offense and subject to a fine of up to
$100, plus court costs.
   (K)   Any person deemed in violation of the exotic or wild animal provision
(§
90.140) shall be subject to a monetary fine pursuant to the following schedule.
      (1)   The first offense shall be a fine of up to $500.
      (2)   All subsequent offenses shall be a fine of up to $1,500.
      (3)   If, after notice, a person fails to comply with the provisions
regarding exotic animals and such violation continues for a period of 14 days,
animal control, with approval of the court with jurisdiction, shall have the
right to enter onto said premises for the purpose of taking custody over the
animal and destroying the animal.
   (L)   Whoever forcibly assaults, resists, opposes, obstructs, prevents,
impedes or interferes with any ordinance enforcement authority while that
officer is engaged in the execution of the duties required of ordinance
enforcement authorities under §
90.155 may be subject to a $100 fine and court costs.
CHAPTER 91:  ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Abandonment within the town
   
91.04   Abandonment on street or highway
   
91.05   Abandonment on nonexempt real estate
   
91.06   Permitting abandonment on nonexempt real estate
   
91.07   Abandonment on partially exempt real estate
   
91.08   Enforcement procedures
   
91.09   Service of notice
   
91.10   Right to inspect and remove abandoned vehicle
   
91.11   Towing contracts
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety and welfare
of the citizens and protect the property values by the elimination of junk
vehicles within the town limits.
(Ord. passed 8-31-2012)
§ 91.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED AND JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES. Any motor vehicle which shall either be
in such deteriorated or destroyed condition as to be unable to be operated
safely with due regard to standards set by the state for motor vehicle
equipment, and by I.C. 9-13-2-1:
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for 24 hours;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner to constitute
a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular traffic on a
public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours;
      (5)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or an ordinance other
than this chapter if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the
owner or the owner’s agent within 20 days after the vehicle’s removal; and
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, is mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 72 hours. For purposes of this division (7),
a vehicle covered by a tarpaulin or other plastic, vinyl, rubber, cloth or
textile covering is considered to be visible.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A regular or special member of the Town Police
Department, or an employee of the town appointed by the Town Council to be
responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
   INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle not within an enclosed
building, in a non- operating condition and in a wrecked, damaged, deteriorated
or partially dismantled condition.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A machine propelled by mechanical power designed to travel
along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides, and which
transports persons or property or pulls machinery and shall include, without
limitations, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles and tractor.
   NONEXEMPT REAL ESTATE. All real estate in the county and the town which is
not partially or totally exempt real estate, as defined herein, except streets
and highways.
   PARTIALLY EXEMPT REAL ESTATE. Real estate upon which is operated a motor
vehicle body shop, repair garage or service station in an area not in zoning
specifications.
   PERSON. Any persons, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. Includes alleys and means the entire width between the
boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open
to the use of the public for the purpose of general travel, both ambulatory and
vehicular.
   TOTALLY EXEMPT REAL ESTATE. Real estate upon which is operated a motor
vehicle wrecking yard, salvage yard or junk yard in an area not in violation of
zoning specifications.
   TOWN. The Town of West Terre Haute, Indiana.
(Ord. passed 8-31-2012)
§ 91.03  ABANDONMENT WITHIN THE TOWN.
   No person shall abandon any motor vehicle within the town, and no person
shall leave any motor vehicle at any place within the town for such time and
under such circumstances as to cause such vehicle to reasonably to appear to
have been abandoned, junked and inoperable, and in no event, in such condition,
for a period exceeding 72 hours, as is provided herein.
(Ord. passed 8-31-2012)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  ABANDONMENT ON STREET OR HIGHWAY.
   No person shall leave, keep, park, store or place any inoperable motor
vehicle or abandoned or junked motor vehicle on any street or highway within
the town for more than 72 hours.
(Ord. passed 8-31-2012)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05  ABANDONMENT ON NONEXEMPT REAL ESTATE.
   No person being the owner or custodian of an inoperative, abandoned or
junked motor vehicle shall leave, keep, park, store or place an inoperative,
abandoned or junk motor vehicle on any nonexempt real estate in the town for
more than three days after being properly served with a removal notice.
(Ord. passed 8-31-2012)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06  PERMITTING ABANDONMENT ON NONEXEMPT REAL ESTATE.
   No person being the owner of nonexempt real estate or having control of or
being in charge of such real estate, shall have, permit or allow inoperative,
abandoned or junk motor vehicle to be in or remain on such real estate for more
than three days after being properly served with a removal notice.
(Ord. passed 8-31-2012)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07  ABANDONMENT ON PARTIALLY EXEMPT REAL ESTATE.
   No owner, operator, lessee or manager of a business on partially exempt real
estate shall place, park, keep, store or cause or permit to be placed, parked,
kept or stored any inoperable, abandoned or junk motor vehicle, or part
thereof, on such partially exempt real estate, except and unless such vehicle
is awaiting repair parts or service, and then in that event, the vehicle shall
not be permitted on such real estate for a period of 60 days.
(Ord. passed 8-31-2012)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08  ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   Whenever the enforcement officer determines that an inoperable, abandoned or
junked motor vehicle is upon nonexempt real estate in the town, has been upon a
street or highway for more than five days or is unlawfully upon partially
exempt real estate, he or she shall prepare and cause to be served a written
removal notice directing such vehicle to be removed.
   (A)   If such vehicle is upon a street or highway and is not removed within
three days after service of the notice, then the enforcement officer may cause
the vehicle to be removed and disposed of.
   (B)   If the owner or lien holder does not appear within 20 days after the
mailing of notice by removal agency, the town or towing contractor, if they so
elect, shall sell the vehicle or parts to the highest bidder at a public sale
conducted after notice under I.C. 5-3-1, except only one newspaper insertion
one week before the sale is required.
(Ord. passed 8-31-2012)
§ 91.09  SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   Service of a removal notice relating to an inoperable, abandoned or
junked motor vehicle upon a street or highway shall be sufficient if a copy is
affixed to such vehicle.
   (B)   Service of a removal notice relating to an inoperable, abandoned or
junked motor vehicle on nonexempt property or unlawfully on partially exempt
shall be sufficient if:
      (1)   A copy is affixed to the subject vehicle;
      (2)   A copy is left with the responsible person found upon the real
estate upon which the subject vehicle is located, or if no such person is found
or if such real estate is unoccupied, then if a copy is posted upon such real
estate in a conspicuous place; or
      (3)   A copy is mailed by ordinary United States mail to each of the
following persons, if the persons are known:
         (a)   The owner of the real estate upon which the subject vehicle is
located;
         (b)   The owner of the subject vehicle; and
         (c)   Any lien holder claiming a security interest in such vehicle.
(Ord. passed 8-31-2012)
§ 91.10  RIGHT TO INSPECT AND REMOVE ABANDONED VEHICLE.
   The enforcement officer shall be authorized to enter upon real estate within
the town to inspect a motor vehicle and to deliver notices under this chapter,
so long as the enforcement officer has reasonable cause to believe that a
violation is being committed, and furthermore he or she shall be authorized to
enter real estate for the purpose of removing motor vehicles as hereinbefore
provided in this chapter. Further, the enforcement officer shall not be
authorized to enter an enclosed building in any event.
(Ord. passed 8-31-2012)
§ 91.11  TOWING CONTRACTS.
   The town may enter into towing contracts pursuant to state law as necessary
for the purpose of removal, storage and disposition of abandoned vehicles and
parts.
   (A)   The charge payable by the owner or lien holder for towing or removing
an abandoned motor vehicle may not exceed the amount incurred for the towing.
   (B)   The charge payable by the owner or lien holder for storing an
abandoned vehicle or parts may not exceed $25 per day or a total of $1,200.
(Ord. passed 8-31-2012)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter shall not be fined more than
$50. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 8-31-2012)
CHAPTER 92:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Regulations
   
92.01   Playing in streets
   
92.02   Maintenance of right-of-way
Obstruction to Streets and Sidewalks
   
92.15   Obstruction to streets and sidewalks prohibited
   
92.16   Excavation and obstructions; required
   
92.17   Use and removal of barricades
   
92.18   Removal of snow and ice from sidewalks required
   
92.19   Downspouts not to be obstructed; abatement
   
92.20   Overhanging trees and stumps near sidewalks
   
92.21   Conveyance of loose materials on public place
   
92.22   Prohibiting the placing or maintenance obstructions in streets
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Unsafe buildings, see
Ch. 150
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 92.01  PLAYING IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to coast, stand, walk (where sidewalks are available),
sled or play on streets or highways except in areas designated by the Police
Chief for such purposes.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02  MAINTENANCE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   (1)   The owner of each lot abutting a town street shall maintain the
surface area from the edge of the owner’s property to the edge of the roadway.
      (2)   EDGE OF THE ROADWAY in this instance shall mean the lot side face
of curb and gutter or the lot side edge of shoulder.
   (B)   (1)   The maintenance shall be limited to normal lot or yard
maintenance which includes maintenance or removal of vegetation, garbage trash
and waste substances and the undertaking of protective measures to prevent or
check erosion.
      (2)   This does not give the lot owner authority to alter or block
drainage elements.
      (3)   Also, owners shall maintain the surface area from the property line
to the center of any alley abutting the property.
   (C)   The alley maintenance shall be limited to normal lot or yard
maintenance which includes maintenance or removal of vegetation, garbage, trash
or waste substances.
   (D)   The blowing of grass clippings and leaves on the town streets is
prohibited.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
92.99
OBSTRUCTION TO STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 92.15  OBSTRUCTION TO STREETS AND SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   Dumpsters shall be permitted in streets parallel to a curb not more than
four inches from the curb. No debris shall be permitted to hang over or fall
out of the dumpster. Dumpsters shall be permitted on the street for no more
than 30 days consecutive.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16  EXCAVATION AND OBSTRUCTIONS; REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall leave any excavation or any obstruction of any kind or
nature within or upon any part of any sidewalk, street, alley or public place,
unless the same shall be surrounded by sufficient barriers, and location
thereof distinctly marked by lights placed and maintained through the night, in
such way and a manner as to effectually prevent an accident.
   (B)   Permission from the Town Council must be obtained before excavation.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17  USE AND REMOVAL OF BARRICADES.
   (A)   Whenever the Town Street Department is currently in the process of re-
paving or repairing or otherwise performing maintenance tasks on alleys and/or
streets in the town, it shall be empowered to place distinctly marked
barricades to direct or restrict flow of traffic around the work area.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move a barricade and for any
person to operate a motor vehicle on any area of a street or alley protected by
a barricade.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18  REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE FROM SIDEWALKS REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of each and every retail, commercial or
industrial business establishment or enterprise in the town abutting any
sidewalk to keep the sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of
snow and ice, and remove therefore all snow and ice accumulated thereon within
a reasonable time.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19  DOWNSPOUTS NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   No person shall erect, build, have or maintain any downspout, or other
device for the purpose of carrying off or discharging rain water or any other
fluids, which will discharge the rain water or other fluids on, over, upon or
across any sidewalk or pavement in the town.
   (B)   Any downspout or device now built or maintained contrary to the
provisions of this section shall be removed within 30 days after the owner or
maintainer thereof shall have written notice from the Town Council to remove
the same. The failure of any person to make the removal shall constitute an
ordinance violation.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.20  OVERHANGING TREES AND STUMPS NEAR SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No owner or occupant of any lot or tract of land on any street or
alley shall allow the branches or foliage of any trees growing upon the lot or
tract of land upon sidewalk in front thereof or adjacent thereto, to hang down
below a distance of eight feet above the surface of the sidewalk or any alley.
   (B)   No owner or occupant of any lot or tract of land fronting on any
street shall allow the stump or any tree to project above the surface or the
ground between the property line and the curb line within that part of the
sidewalk abutting upon the lot or tract of land.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21  CONVEYANCE OF LOOSE MATERIALS ON PUBLIC PLACE.
   (A)   Definition.  For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC PLACE.  Any and all boulevards, avenues, lanes, alleys or other
public ways, parks, squares, spaces, plazas, grounds and buildings frequented
by the general public, whether publicly or privately owned.
   (B)   Transporting contents.  Any person who transports in any vehicle or in
any other manner upon any public place any loose materials or articles likely
to shift, fall, spill or be blown upon the public place shall not overload the
vehicle and shall cover the contents or shall convey the contents in tightly
secured to covered boxes or containers. In case any of the contents thereof
shall be blown, spilled, fall or become scattered in any public place, the
person shall cause all fallen substances to be immediately gathered up and
removed. It shall be a violation of this section to cause or allow the loose
material or articles to be blown, spilled, fall or become scattered upon public
places.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22  PROHIBITING THE PLACING OR MAINTENANCE OBSTRUCTIONS IN STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm or corporation to
build, erect, place, keep or maintain any box, barrel or other structure, or
any vessel or vehicle within or upon any street or alley of the  town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm or corporation to
deposit or cause to permit to be deposited in any street or alley of the town,
any manure, garbage, ashes, trash, rubbish, tin cans, crockery, dishwater, wash
water or any waste or refuse material of any kind, nature and description.
   (C)   All manure, garbage, ashes, trash, rubbish, tin cans, crockery and
refuse material of any kind and nature shall be deposited in suitable vessels
provided by the person depositing the same and kept at a point within the
property line as convenient as possible for collection and removal.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm or corporation to
allow any rank weeds or other vegetation to accumulate on any property owned,
controlled or occupied by them, or to deposit thereon any garbage, rubbish,
trash, filth, manure or other refuse material to the extent that the same may
become detrimental to the public health.
   (E)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm or
corporation, to burn leaves, or have a fire of any kind within or upon any
street or sidewalk or within the property line of the town.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm or
corporations to burn leaves or trash before 7:00 a.m. and after 6:00 p.m.,
within the town.
(Ord. 3, passed 4-21-1998)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or persons, firm or corporation violating §
92.01, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $25.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation that are violating any of the
provisions of §
92.02 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine not exceeding the sum of $100.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
92.15 through
92.21 shall be subject to a fine not exceeding the sum of $100.
   (E)   Any person or persons, firm or corporation violating any of the
provisions of §
92.22 of this chapter shall be fined $25.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 3, passed 4-21-1998)
CHAPTER 93:  NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Garbage, trash and the like; definition and removal
   
93.03   Garbage, trash, and the like; notice to be removed
   
93.04   Effective date
Enforcement
   
93.15   Ordinance violation
   
93.16   Injunction
   
93.17   Cumulative
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals causing public nuisances, see §§
90.060 through
90.066
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health and welfare by
declaring trash, garbage, rank vegetation and other waste substances a nuisance
and abating the nuisances.
(Ord. 04-02, passed - -2004)
§ 93.02  GARBAGE, TRASH AND THE LIKE; DEFINITION AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GARBAGE. All organic household waste, offal, animal and vegetable matter
prepared or intended for use as food, condemned foodstuffs and materials, and
substance materials and things ordinarily disposed of in containers and
incinerators by hotels, restaurants, stores, hospitals, apartment houses and
private dwellings.
      LOT or PARCELS OF LOTS or PARCEL OF REAL ESTATE. In addition to those
grounds within their respective boundaries, all of the grounds lying to the
center of any roadway or alley whether that roadway or alley is improved or
unimproved.
      OTHER WASTE SUBSTANCES. Any and all junk, rubbish or debris which is
harmful to the general public health and welfare or may detract from the
appearance of a geographic area or a neighborhood.
      RANK VEGETATION. Any and all junk, rubbish or debris which is harmful to
the general public health and welfare or may detract from the appearance of a
geographic area or a neighborhood.
      TRASH. All rubbish and refuse including, but not limited to paper
products, glass bottles and containers, broken glass, rubber products, metals,
rags, weeds, tree toppings, grass, leaves, discarded furniture and appliances.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or lessee of any lot or
parcels of lots or parcel of real estate within the boundaries of the town to
allow, suffer or permit any garbage, trash, rank vegetation or other waste
substances to be deposited on, grow on, or remain on any lot, parcels of lots
or parcel of real estate.
   (C)   Whenever and wherever garbage, trash, rank vegetation or other waste
substances shall exist, covering or partly covering the surface of any lot or
parcels of lots or parcel of real estate within the boundaries of the town, the
same shall be deemed a nuisance and a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-02, passed - -2004)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03  GARBAGE, TRASH, AND THE LIKE; NOTICE TO BE REMOVED.
   (A)   Notice to owners; ten days to abate nuisance.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Town Council, or its designated
representative to inspect from time to time the various lots or parcels of lots
or parcels of real estate lying within the boundaries of the town.
      (2)   If it is found that garbage, trash, rank vegetation or other waste
substances are permitted to be deposited on, grow on, or remain on the lots or
parcels of lots or parcels of real estate, it shall be the duty of the town to
ascertain the names of the owners, occupants or lessees of the property and to
notify the owners, occupants or lessees in writing that the garage, trash, rank
vegetation or other waste substances shall be removed or otherwise destroyed
within ten days from the date of the notice.
   (B)   Notice sent to owners.
      (1)   Notice shall be sent to the owner of record as the name and address
appears on the tax statement from the Treasurer’s office of the county by
certified mail, or the notice may be hand delivered by the Town Council or its
designated representative.
      (2)   If any lot or parcels of lots or parcel of real estate is not
occupied or leased, and the owner is a nonresident of the town or his or her
residence is unknown, or if notice is returned by the Postal Department because
of its inability to make delivery thereof, the Town Council shall cause a
notice to remove the garbage, trash, rank vegetation or other waste substance
to be published in some daily newspaper of general circulation at least once
each week for two successive weeks.
(Ord. 04-02, passed - -2004)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Shall become effective upon completion of publication as required in I.C. 5-
3-1.
(Ord. 04-02, passed - -2004)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 93.15  ORDINANCE VIOLATION.
   If, after the giving of notice as provided herein and the passage of the ten
day abatement period, the property remains in a condition which is in violation
of this chapter, the Town Council may cause to be brought and prosecuted in the
name of the town a proceeding to enforce the ordinance violation as provided in
the Indiana Code.
(Ord. 04-02, passed - -2004)
§ 93.16  INJUNCTION.
   If any owner, occupant or lessee of any lot or parcels of lots or parcel of
real estate shall fail to remove or abate the garbage, trash, rank vegetation
or other waste substance after receiving notice as provided in §
93.03, the Town Council may cause to be brought and prosecuted a civil action
to enjoin the person from violating this chapter through a continued use or
condition of the property.
(Ord. 04-02, passed - -2004)
§ 93.17  CUMULATIVE.
   The enforcement provisions provided herein shall be cumulative and may be
employed singularly or jointly at the discretion of the town.
(Ord. 04-02, passed - -2004)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Separate violations.
      (1)   Each day of violation of this chapter constitutes a separate
violation subject to a separate penalty not to exceed$50.
      (2)   Any person found to have violated this chapter shall also be liable
for court costs as provided in Indiana Code.
   (B)   Failure of removal.
      (1)   If any owner, occupant or lessee of any lot or parcels of lots or
parcel of real estate shall fail to remove or abate the garbage, trash, rank
vegetation or other waste substances after receiving notice as provided in §
93.03, the Town Council may cause the same to be removed or otherwise abated.
      (2)   When the Town Council has effected the removal of the nuisance, it
shall prepare a sworn statement showing the cost of the work performed and it
shall bill the owner of record.
      (3)   The bill shall be in the minimum amount of $50 and shall be due and
payable at the time of receiving the statement.
   (C)   Failure of owner to pay.
      (1)   When the full amount due the town is not paid by the owner within
90 days after receipt of the statement as provided in division (B) above then,
and in that case, the Town Council shall cause to be recorded in the County
Recorder’s office a sworn statement showing the cost and expense incurred for
the work, date the work was done and the location of the property on which the
work was done.
      (2)   The recordation of the sworn statement shall constitute a lien on
the property, and shall remain in force and effect for the amount due in
principal and interest, plus any costs of court and for collection until final
payment has been made.
      (3)   The costs and expenses shall be collected in the manner fixed by
law for the collection of real estate taxes and further, shall be subject to a
delinquent penalty the same as real estate taxes in the event same is not paid
in full on or before the date of the tax bill upon which the charges appear to
become delinquent.
      (4)   Sworn statements recorded in accordance with the provisions hereof
shall be prima facie evidence that all legal formalities have been complied
with and that the work has been done properly and satisfactorily, and shall be
full notice to every person concerned that the amount of the statement, plus
interest, constitutes a charge against the property designated or described in
the statement and that the same is due and collectible as provided by law.
(Ord. 04-02, passed - -2004)
CHAPTER 94:  WEEDS
Section
   
94.01   Definitions; exclusions
   
94.02   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
94.03   Filing complaint
   
94.04   Notice of violations
   
94.05   Appeals
   
94.06   Abatement by town
   
94.07   Liability
Statutory reference:
   Removal of weeds and rank vegetation, see I.C. 36-7-10.1
§ 94.01  DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER.  The notice served by the enforcement authority on the
property owner of the ordinance violation.
      ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.  The town executive, or in cases of appeal, the
Town Council.
      PROPERTY OWNER.  The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-
of-way, easement, license, or lease.
      RANK VEGETATION.  The uncontrolled, uncultivated growth of annuals and
perennial plants.
      WEEDS, GRASSES.  Includes Canada thistle, thistles, johnson grass,
sorghum, alum [i.e., allium], bur cucumber, and shattercane, but shall not
include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants, or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
   (C)   The Indiana Cooperative Extension Service shall be the referenced
technical authority for the enforcement authority with respect to the
definition of exempt matters, shrubs, trees, cultivated plants and crops.
§ 94.02  OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners within the corporate limits of the town shall be
required and be financially responsible for the removal, cutting, or disposal
and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other uncontrolled
plant growth on their property which, at the time of notice, is in excess of 10
inches in average height, and in no event exceeds 15 inches maximum height on
at least 20% of the surface area of the property.
§ 94.03  FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the town, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the town which has growing plant matter in
violation of this chapter, shall make a written complaint signed, dated, and
filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer. If the town makes the complaint, an
employee, officer, or Council member of the town shall file the complaint in
all respects as set out above.
§ 94.04  NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in violation
of this chapter, a person designated by the enforcement authority shall make an
inspection and prepare a written report to the enforcement authority regarding
the condition. The enforcement authority, upon concluding that there is a
probable belief that this chapter has been violated, shall forward written
notification in the form of a destruction order to the property owner and/or
the person occupying the property as that information is contained within the
records of the Town Clerk-Treasurer or any other town agency. This notice shall
be served in writing by certified mail. The notice shall provide that, within
seven calendar days after the receipt of the notice, the designated violation
shall be removed by the property owner and/or person occupying the property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing, and all filings are to be with
the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the Town Clerk-Treasurer or others is deemed
filed on the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
§ 94.05  APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the enforcement authority within 48 hours of the notice, excluding
weekends and holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the
enforcement authority. It is the property owner’s responsibility to demonstrate
that the matter in question is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants, or crops, or
is not otherwise in violation of this chapter, and should not be subject to
destruction under this chapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the Town
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council members in
attendance, being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the Town
Council.
§ 94.06  ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
destruction order within seven calendar days and has not filed a notice within
48 hours to the Clerk-Treasurer of an intent to appeal, the enforcement
authority may employ the services of town employees or outside contractors and
remove the weeds to conform to this chapter by all lawful means.
§ 94.07  LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting, or
destruction of weeds as defined by this chapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including but not limited to court costs, attorneys'
fees, and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the town.  If the
enforcement authority uses municipal employees, the town shall set and assign
an appropriate per hour rate for employees, equipment, supplies, and chemicals
which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and to be deposited in a general fund, as compensation for
expenses and costs incurred by the town.
   (D)   If the property owner fails to pay a bill issued under this chapter
within the time specified in this chapter, the town shall certify to the County
Auditor the amount of the bill, plus any additional administrative costs
incurred in the certification.  The Auditor shall place the total amount
certified on the tax duplicate for the property affected, and the total amount,
including any accrued interest, shall be collected as delinquent taxes are
collected and shall be disbursed to the General Fund of the town. 
(I.C. 36-7-10.1-4)
CHAPTER 95:  NOISE
Section
   
95.01   Public purpose declared
   
95.02   Unnecessary noises prohibited
   
95.03   Violations declared
   
95.04   Noise from vehicles
   
95.05   Regulating unreasonably loud noise
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01  PUBLIC PURPOSE DECLARED.
   (A)   It is found and declared that:
      (1)   The making and creation of loud, unnecessary or unusual noises
within the limits of the town is a condition which has existed for some time
and the extent and volume of the noises is increasing;
      (2)   The making, creation or maintenance of the loud, unnecessary,
unnatural or unusual noises which are prolonged, unusual and unnatural in their
time, place and use affect and are a detriment to public health, comfort,
convenience, safety, welfare and prosperity of the residents of the town; and
      (3)   The necessity in the public interest for the provisions and
prohibitions hereinafter contained and enacted, is declared as a matter of
legislative determination and public policy.
   (B)   It is further declared that the provisions and prohibitions
hereinafter contained and enacted are in pursuance of and for the purpose of
securing and promoting the public health, comfort, convenience, safety, welfare
and prosperity and the peace and quiet of the town and its inhabitants.
(Art. 9, passed - -)
§ 95.02  UNNECESSARY NOISES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual noises or any noise which either
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or
safety of others, within the limits of the town.
(Art. 9, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03  VIOLATIONS DECLARED.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noises in violation of this chapter, but the enumeration shall not
be exclusive, namely:
   (A)   Horns, signaling devices, and the like.
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any automobile,
motorcycle, street car or other vehicle on any street or public place of the
town, except as a danger warning; the creation by means of any signaling device
of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of any device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time; and
      (2)   The use of any signaling device except one operated by hand or
electricity; the use of any horn, whistle or other device operated by engine
exhaust; and the use of any signaling device when traffic is for any reason
held up.
   (B)   Radios, phonographs, and the like.
      (1)   The using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated
any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph or other machine or
device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such a manner as to disturb
the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or at any time with
louder volume than is necessary for convenient hearing for the person or
persons who are in the room, vehicle or chamber in which the machine or device
is operated and who are voluntary listeners thereto; and
      (2)   The operation of any set, instrument, phonograph, machine or device
in such a manner as to the keeping of any animal or bird which by causing
frequent or long continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of any
persons in the vicinity.
   (C)   Loud speaker, amplifiers for advertising. The using, operating or
permitting to be played/used, or operated of any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph, loud speaker, sound amplifier or other machine or
device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public
streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention
of the public to any building or of any persons in the vicinity;
   (D)   Steam whistles. The blowing of any locomotive steam whistle or steam
whistle attached to any stationary boiler except to give notice of the time to
begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or danger, or upon request loud or
explosive noises therefrom;
   (E)   Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or
vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in the manner as to create loud and
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise;
   (F)   Yelling, shouting and the like. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling
or singing on the public streets, particularly between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet,
comfort of persons in any office, or in any dwelling, hotel or other type of
residence, or of any persons in the vicinity;
   (G)   Loading, unloading, opening boxes. The creation of a loud and
excessive noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the
opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers;
   (H)   Schools, courts, churches, hospitals. The creation of any excessive
noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or
court while the same are in use, or adjacent to any hospital, which
unreasonably interferes with the working of the institution, or which disturbs
or unduly annoys patients in the hospital, provided conspicuous signs are
displayed in the streets indicating that the same is a school, hospital, court
or street;
   (I)   Hawkers, peddlers. The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers and
vendors which disturbs the peace and quiet of the neighborhood;
   (J)   Drums. The use of any drum or other instrument or device for the
purpose of attracting attention creation of noise to any performance, show or
sale;
   (K)   Metal rails, pillars and columns, transportation thereof. The
transportation of rails, pillars, or columns of iron, steel or other material,
over and along streets and other public places upon carts, drays, cars, trucks
or in any other manner so loaded as to cause loud noises or as to disturb the
peace and quiet of the streets or other public places; and
   (L)   Pile drivers, hammers, and the like. The operation between the hours
of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any pile driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer,
derrick, steam or electric hoist or other appliance, the use of which is
attended by loud or unusual noise.
(Art. 9, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04  NOISE FROM VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to cause, allow
or permit noise, music, and sounds from radio, stereos and amplifiers to be
audible from ten feet of a moving or stationary vehicle.
   (B)   For any person violating the provision of this section, the penalty
for the first offense in any 12-month period shall be as provided by the
Ordinance Violation Bureau. All second and subsequent offenses in any 12-month
period are subject to enforcement through the judicial system as provided by
state statute and local ordinance.
(Art. 9, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05  REGULATING UNREASONABLY LOUD NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firms or corporations to
make, continue or cause to be made or continued any loud, unnecessary or
unusual noises or any noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers
the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others, within the limits of
the town.
(Ord. 18-2000, passed 9-5-2000)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined,
as set forth in the chart in
Chapter 33, Appendix A of this code of ordinances, subject to payment through
the Ordinance Violation Bureau.
   (B)   Any person or persons, firms or corporations violating the provisions
of §
95.05 shall be fined $25.
(Art. 9, passed - -; Ord. 18-2000, passed 9-5-2000)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROCEDURES
      
111.   VEHICLES FOR HIRE
      
112.   PAWN SHOPS
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL LICENSING PROCEDURES
Section
Pinball Machines and Electronic Games
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Application; issuance
Tables, Alleys, Machines, Devices And The Like
   
110.15   License required for operation within corporate limits of town
   
110.16   Unlawful time period to permit holders
   
110.17   License qualifications
   
110.18   Desiring of a license, renewal or transfer
   
110.19   Payment to the Clerk-Treasurer
   
110.20   Expiration of license
   
110.21   Exceptions
   
110.22   Effective date
Nonresident Peddlers, Hucksters, Traders or Vendors
   
110.35   Definition
   
110.36   Application to peddle
   
110.37   License fees
   
110.38   Exhibiting license
   
110.39   Shows, circuses and operatic groups
   
110.40   Obtaining a license
   
110.41   License and fee for operatic show
   
110.42   Revocation
   
110.43   Licensing duties of Clerk-Treasurer
   
110.44   Effective date
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Pawn shops, see
Ch. 112
PINBALL MACHINES AND ELECTRONIC GAMES
§ 110.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall keep or maintain any machine or device including
pinball machines, electronic games and arcade games or place for the playing or
any sport or game, whether or not the sport or game is played for any wager,
without first obtaining a license from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The provision of this subchapter shall not apply in any case where a
machine or device, including pinball machines, electronic games and arcade
games or place or playing of any sport or game is kept or maintained for use in
a private family or for philanthropic, religious, benevolent or educational
purpose.
(Ord. 20, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02  APPLICATION; ISSUANCE.
   Any person desiring a license under the provisions of this subchapter shall
submit an application to the Clerk-Treasurer containing the information as the
Clerk-Treasurer may desire.
(Ord. 20, passed - -)
TABLES, ALLEYS, MACHINES, DEVICES AND THE LIKE
§ 110.15  LICENSE REQUIRED FOR OPERATION WITHIN CORPORATE LIMITS OF TOWN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firms or corporations to
keep or maintain any table, alley, machine, device or place for playing any
sports or games, within the corporate limits of the town, whether or not the
sport or game is played for any wager, hire or pay without first obtaining from
the town a license to do so, as provided in this subchapter, which license
shall be in the name of the person or persons, firms or corporations actually
keeping, maintaining and controlling the tables, alleys, machines, device or
place.
(Ord. 11, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.16  UNLAWFUL TIME PERIOD TO PERMIT HOLDERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firms or corporations, who
maintain a license under this subchapter, to keep or maintain any table, alley,
machine or device for the playing of any game or sport between the hours of 3:
00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m.
(Ord. 11, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.17  LICENSE QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Licenses may be issued under the provisions of this subchapter in the
manner herein provided, to any person over the age of 21 years, of good moral
character, who shall not be in the habit of gambling or becoming intoxicated,
and also to any partnership, provided all the members thereof are qualified to
hold the license, and to a corporation, provided the corporation shall
designate a person as manager who shall have the control and management of any
such place and who shall have the qualifications of an individual licensee and
shall be subject to all the duties and penalties provided for an individual
licensee, and who shall be named in the license when issued, and in addition,
the corporation shall be liable for all acts of its manager, performed under or
in connection with the license.
   (B)   No license or renewal thereof, shall be issued, or transfer thereof
permitted, to any applicant, be an individual, or applicant member of a
copartnership, applicant manager of corporation who shall have been convicted
of a felony, after the passage of this subchapter, within two years to the
application.
   (C)   Nor shall any license be issued, or transfer permitted to any
applicant within two years after any license under this subchapter, held by the
applicant, any applicant member of a co-partnership, or applicant manager of a
corporation shall have been revoked.
(Ord. 11, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.18  DESIRING OF A LICENSE, RENEWAL OR TRANSFER.
   (A)   Any person, co-partnership or corporation desiring license under this
subchapter, or any renewal or transfer thereof, shall file with the Town
Council, an application in writing duly signed and sworn to by the individual
applicant, all the members of a co-partnership applicant, and, in case of a
corporation, by the President, Secretary or Treasurer, and also the designated
manager.
   (B)   The application shall truly and correctly state the name or names of
all applicants, their ages and qualifications as required by this subchapter,
that the applicant is the actual and sole owner and in exclusive control of the
place effected by the license, or place which the applicant desires to keep or
maintain under this subchapter.
   (C)   The application shall be heard and determined by the Town Council, and
if the Town Council shall find that the applicant for a license, is entitled
thereto, the Town Council shall grant the applicant an order authorizing the
issuance of a license, upon the payment of the license fee.
(Ord. 11, passed - -)
§ 110.19  PAYMENT TO THE CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   Upon the issuance of the order by the Town Council, the applicant
shall pay to the Clerk- Treasurer, the sum of $5 for each and every pool or
billiard table kept or maintained for sports, or games and the sum of $5 for
each and every card table, kept or maintained for sport or playing of cards,
and the sum of $10 for each and every bowling alley kept or maintained, the
license fee shall entitle the applicant to a license for a period of one year
upon the paying to the Clerk-Treasurer the fee, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue
the applicant a license, signed by the Clerk-Treasurer, authorizing the keeping
and maintaining of the tables, alleys, machines, devices and places for the
playing of sports and games, as provided herein, which license shall state the
name of the applicant and of the corporate manager in case of a corporation,
the place covered by the license and the time for which the license is granted.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a record of all licenses, renewals and
transfers issued under this subchapter, and of the date of the expiration
thereof.
(Ord. 11, passed - -)
§ 110.20  EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All licenses issued under this provision of this subchapter shall
expire at 12:00 p.m. on December 31 of each year.
   (B)   A license may be renewed by obtaining the order of the Town Council,
and paying the license fee provided under this subchapter.
   (C)   The license may be transferred on the order of the Town Council, to a
qualified applicant, on the application of the original licensee and the
transferee, by endorsement made thereon by the holder thereof, in the presence
of the Clerk-Treasurer, together with a certificate from the Clerk-Treasurer of
the order for transfer, and the license may be transferred from one place to
another on the application of the licensee, upon the order of Town Council, and
the endorsement of a certificate of the transfer on the license by the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Ord. 11, passed - -)
§ 110.21  EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply in any case where a table,
alley, machine, device or place for the playing of sports or games is kept or
maintained for use in a private family or for philanthropic, religious,
benevolent or educational purposes.
(Ord. 11, passed - -)
§ 110.22  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The Town Council hereby determines and declares that this subchapter is a
restatement and re-enactment of General Ord. 3, adopted by the Council on March
10, 1953.
(Ord. 11, passed - -)
NONRESIDENT PEDDLERS, HUCKSTERS, TRADERS OR VENDORS
§ 110.35  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person who sells or offers for sale manufactured goods, wares
or merchandise directly to a consumer either by going from house to house for
the purpose of selling and delivering the goods or for the purpose of taking
orders for the future delivery of the goods or by selling and delivering the
goods from a pack or a vehicle in any street or other public place except:
      (1)   Persons selling by sample only;
      (2)   Persons selling agricultural products raised or produced by such
persons;
      (3)   Persons selling as authorized by state law;
      (4)   Persons under 18 years of age; and
      (5)   Persons selling newspapers direct to the homeowner.
(Ord. 13, passed - -)
§ 110.36  APPLICATION TO PEDDLE.
   (A)   All persons peddling goods or merchandise upon and along the streets,
alleys, avenues or public grounds of the town, either in a vehicle or on foot,
shall first make application to the Clerk-Treasurer for a peddler’s license.
   (B)   However, one person may take out any number of licenses in his or her
name to be used by persons only in his or her employment. The use of the
license by any person other than the employee shall render the license null and
void.
(Ord. 13, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.37  LICENSE FEES.
   Licenses shall be issued upon payment of fees for the following periods of
time:
   (A)   One day: $5;
   (B)   One month: $150;
   (C)   Six months: $900; and
   (D)   One year: $1,800.
(Ord. 13, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.38  EXHIBITING LICENSE.
   Any person licensed as a peddler shall, upon demand of any police officer,
exhibit the license.
(Ord. 13, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.39  SHOWS, CIRCUSES AND OPERATIC GROUPS.
   (A)   No person shall act, exhibit, play or perform any play, drama, comedy,
opera, concert or other theatrical performance, circus, exhibit of animals or
other exhibition, entertainment, show, moving picture show or amusement for
which money or other reward is in any manner demanded or received without a
license therefor issued by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   No license shall be required for entertainment given by any public or
private school, lectures or historical, literary or scientific subject, or
concerts, fairs, exhibitions of paintings or statuary given or made by
residents of the town for benevolent, religious or charitable purposes.
(Ord. 13, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.40  OBTAINING A LICENSE.
   Any person desiring to obtain a license as herein provided shall give notice
to the Clerk-Treasurer of his or her  intention to apply for the license at
least 30 days before the planned opening date of the show, circus, opera or
other exhibition.
(Ord. 13, passed - -)
§ 110.41  LICENSE AND FEE FOR OPERATIC SHOW.
   (A)   Any person desiring to operate a carnival, show, circus, operative
performance or other exhibition in the town, shall submit application for a
license to the Clerk-Treasurer containing the information as the Clerk-
Treasurer may desire.
   (B)   The applicant shall agree to hold the town free and harmless from any
liability to any person on account of injuries or damages incurring from
operation of the carnival and shall further agree to reimburse the town for any
expenses incurred by the town in connection with the carnival.
(Ord. 13, passed - -)
§ 110.42  REVOCATION.
   The Town Council may revoke any license issued under the provisions of this
subchapter upon complaint being made that the carnival, exhibit, show or any
exhibit thereof, is being operated in an indecent or improper manner, in
violation of state or federal law or of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 13, passed - -)
§ 110.43  LICENSING DUTIES OF CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer upon payment of the
required license fee to issue a license for any of the purposes named in this
subchapter.
   (B)   Each license shall express upon its face the time and purpose for
which it was issued and the name of the person to whom it is issued.
   (C)   Each license shall be signed by the Clerk-Treasurer who shall keep a
record of all licenses issued by him or her which record shall state the name
of the person to whom the license is granted, the purpose, date and length of
time for which it is issued and the amount of money received therefor.
(Ord. 13, passed - -)
§ 110.44  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The Town Council hereby determines and declares that this subchapter is the
restatement and re-enactment of General Ord. 12, adopted by the Council on
March 10, 1953.
(Ord. 13, passed - -)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, persons, firm or corporations, and any manager of a
corporation designated in the license, violating any of the provisions of §§
110.15 through
110.22, shall upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50 and the Town
Council, by resolution may, upon conviction thereof, revoke the license.
   (C)   Any person or persons violating the provisions of §§
110.35 through
110.44 shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.
(Ord. 11, passed - -; Ord. 13, passed - -)
CHAPTER 111:  VEHICLES FOR HIRE
Section
   
111.01   Definition of taxicab
   
111.02   Liability insurance
   
111.03   License
   
111.04   Effective date
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  DEFINITION OF TAXICAB.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE FOR HIRE. Every person, persons, firms or corporations
operating any motor vehicle along and upon any public street or highway within
the town for the purpose of carrying passengers for hire, is hereby declared to
be a COMMERCIAL VEHICLE FOR HIRE and is hereinafter referred to as a TAXICAB
and is hereby required to be operated in accordance with the following
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 12, passed - -)
§ 111.02  LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of a license, the applicant shall file with the
Clerk-Treasurer and, continue in force, during the term of the license, a
certificate of insurance issued by an insurance carrier licensed to do business
in the state, insuring the applicant and its vehicles for liability insurance
with minimum coverage for a combined single limit of $1,000,000 per occurrence.
   (B)   The certificate of insurance shall name the town as an additional
named insured and shall further provide that the town will receive notice of
any cancellation of said policy.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03  LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to operate a taxicab shall
obtain a license from the Clerk-Treasurer of the town by paying the sum of $10
for each taxicab.
   (B)   The term of this license shall be for one year from the date of
issuance.
   (C)   No license shall be issued for any person under 21 years of age.
(Ord. 12, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The Town Council hereby determines and declares that this chapter is a
restatement and re-enactment of General Ord. 9, adopted by the Council on March
10, 1953.
(Ord. 12, passed - -)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50.
(Ord. 12, passed - -)
CHAPTER 112:  PAWN SHOPS
Section
   
112.01   Registration fee
   
112.02   Records to be kept by owner
   
112.03   Prohibitions
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  REGISTRATION FEE.
   (A)   Each owner or operator of pawnshops, secondhand stores, dealers in
precious metals and coins and dealers in pre-owned merchandise, shall register
with the Clerk-Treasurer and pay a fee of $25 for each registration.
   (B)   If the owner or operator shall relocate his or her place of business,
he or she shall re-register with the Clerk-Treasurer and pay the fee as herein
provided.
(Ord. 2002-20, passed 11-12-2002)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02  RECORDS TO BE KEPT BY OWNER.
   (A)   Every pawnshop and pawnbroker in precious metals or coins and
secondhand dealer shall keep a book in which shall be entered at time of pledge
or purchase, a description of the article, purchased or pledged from any
person, the amount paid for the article, the date of the transaction, together
with the name and address of the person from whom the article is purchased or
pledged, and every pawnshop, pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or dealer in
precious metal or coins shall, at the time of making a purchase, require the
pledger or seller to provide a photocopy of a photo identification card and
write his or her signature and address on the record book required by this
chapter to be kept.
   (B)   The book shall be opened for inspection by the police at any and all
times.
(Ord. 2002-20, passed 11-12-2002)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03  PROHIBITIONS.
   No pawnshop, pawnbroker, secondhand dealer or dealer in precious metals or
coins shall:
   (A)   Pledge or purchase any article or anything from a person less than 18
years of age; and
   (B)   Receive any pledge or purchase any article from any person who is
known by him or her to be a thief, or associate of a thief, a receiver of
stolen property or from any person whom he or she has reason to believe to be
any of the foregoing.
(Ord. 2002-20, passed 11-12-2002)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an
ordinance violation and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine
not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 2002-20, passed 11-12-2002)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
131.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Firing firearms within the town
   
130.02   Curfew for town
   
130.03   Curfew for minors
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  FIRING FIREARMS WITHIN THE TOWN.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FIREARM. Any weapon which is capable of, or designed to, or which may
readily be converted to, expelling projectiles with deadly force by means of an
explosion.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and in violation of this section for any person
or persons to fire, or cause to fire, a firearm as defined within the town
limits unless used to protect life/self defense.
(Ord. 16, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  CURFEW FOR TOWN.
   The Town Council shall have the authority to invoke, at its discretion, by
resolution, an emergency curfew, when the need arises.
(Ord. 9, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03  CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person under the following ages to remain in or
on any of the public streets, alleys or public places in the town limits during
the following times of day.
      (1)   For any person under the age of 18 years the following curfew
applies:
         (a)   1:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
         (b)   11:00 p.m. to midnight on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or
Thursday; and
         (c)   Midnight to 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or
Friday.
      (2)   For any person under the age of 16 years, the following curfew
applies:
         (a)   11:00 p.m. to midnight on Friday or Saturday;
         (b)   Midnight to 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
         (c)   10:00 p.m. to midnight on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday; and
         (d)   Midnight to 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or
Friday.
   (B)   Any child less than 18 years of age who is found violating division
(A) above by any police officer or other peace officer may issue same said
child, a written citation for this violation in the Violations Bureau to pay a
fine.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the child’s parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child’s parent, guardian
or custodian;
      (3)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A sanctioned school activity;
         (c)   A religious activity; or
         (d)   A necessary or duty directed by the child’s parent, guardian or
custodian.
      (4)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution;
      (5)   In a vehicle involved in interstate travel; or
      (6)   Involved in an emergency.
   (D)   (1)   It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person having
the legal custody of any child to allow, suffer or permit such child to violate
the provisions of division (A) above after been warned in writing that such
child has previously been found violating such section.
      (2)   Conviction of the child is not required to be proven in any
prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EMERGENCY.
         (a)   Unforeseen circumstances, or the status or condition resulting
there from, requiring immediate action to safeguard life, limb or property.
         (b)   The term includes, but not limited to, fires, natural disasters,
automobile accidents or other similar circumstances.
(Ord. 9, passed 8-31-2012)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or persons, firm or corporation violating the provisions of
§
130.01, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $50.
   (C)   Any person or persons violating the provisions of §
130.02 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50.
   (D)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
130.03 shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by a fine of not more than:
 
First violation                        Up to $50
Second violation within a year         Up to $100
Any subsequent violation within a year Up to $150
 
(Ord. 16, passed - -; Ord. 9, passed - -; Ord. 9, passed 8-31-2012)
CHAPTER 131:  WEAPONS
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Shooting prohibited
   
131.03   Weapons prohibited for minors
   
131.04   Parental responsibility
   
131.05   Exceptions
 
   
131.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Discharging firearms in the town, see §
130.01
§ 131.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GUN. Any gun or device, by whatever name known, which is designed to
expel or propel a projectile, pellet or missile, leaden or otherwise, by the
action of compressed air, gas, or by the action of a spring or elastic, but
shall not mean firearm.
   SLINGSHOT. Any device, by whatever name known, which is designed to support
stones, pellets or missiles, and by hand, hurling, throwing and flinging the
same by stretching and releasing elastic.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 131.02  SHOOTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, regardless of age, shall shoot within the town any gun
commonly known as an air gun or any type of mechanical gun that shoots, expels
or propels pellets, missiles or projectiles, leaden or otherwise.
   (B)   No person shall hurl, throw or fling missiles, pellets or stone by
means of a slingshot.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03  WEAPONS PROHIBITED FOR MINORS.
   No person under the age of 16 years shall carry any air gun or slingshot on
the street, alley, public roads or public places within the town unless
accompanied by an adult, parent or guardian.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04  PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   No parent or guardian of any child under the age of 16 years shall knowingly
permit any child to violate this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05  EXCEPTIONS.
   Any person under the age of 16 years may have in his or her possession any
of the articles mentioned in §
131.02 of this chapter if:
   (A)   Kept within his or her domicile;
   (B)   Used by the person under 16 years of age and he or she is a duly
enrolled member of any club, team or society organized for educational purposes
and maintaining as part of its facilities or having written permission to use
an indoor target range under supervision, guidance and instruction of a
responsible adult;
   (C)   Used in or on any private grounds or residence under circumstances
when such an article designated in §
131.02 can be fired, discharged or operated in such a manner as not to endanger
persons or property and also in the manner as to prevent the projectile
transferring any grounds of space outside the limits of the grounds or
residence; and
   (D)   Carried unloaded and in a suitable case or securely wrapped.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 131.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to a fine not exceeding the sum of $100.
(Ord. passed - -)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   UNSAFE BUILDING CODE
      
151.   MOBILE HOMES
      
152.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150:  UNSAFE BUILDING CODE
Section
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Scope
   
150.04   Authority
   
150.05   Definitions
   
150.06   Standards and practices
   
150.07   Building Fund
   
150.08   Effective date
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01  TITLE.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9, there is hereby established a West
Terre Haute Unsafe Building Law.
(Ord. 04-01, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 21-2004, passed - -2004)
§ 150.02  PURPOSE.
   (A)   I.C. 36-7-9-28, is incorporated by reference in the West Terre Haute
Unsafe Building Law.
   (B)   All proceedings with the town for the inspection, repair, and removal
of unsafe buildings shall be governed by said law and the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   In the event the provisions of the chapter conflict with the
provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28, then the provisions of the state
statute shall control.
(Ord. 04-01, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 21-2004, passed - -2004)
§ 150.03  SCOPE.
   All buildings or portions thereof with the town which are determined after
inspection by the Town Council to be unsafe as defined in this chapter and/or
the referenced state statute are hereby declared to be public nuisances and
shall by abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal.
(Ord. 04-01, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 21-2004, passed - -2004)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04  AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Town Council or its designated representative who shall be
hereinafter referred to as the Inspector is authorized to administer and to
proceed under the provisions of said law in ordering the repair or removal of
any buildings found to be unsafe as specified therein or as specified
hereafter.
   (B)   (1)   Wherever in the building regulations of the town or the Town
Unsafe Building Law, it is provided that anything must be done to the approval
of or subject to the direction of the Inspector, or any other officer of the
town.
      (2)   This shall be construed to give such officer only the discretion of
determining whether the rules and standards established by ordinance have been
complied with; and no such provisions shall be construed as giving any officer
discretionary powers as to what such regulations or standards shall be, power
to require conditions not prescribed by statute or ordinance or to enforce such
provisions in an arbitrary or discretionary manner.
(Ord. 04-01, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 21-2004, passed - -2004)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The description of an unsafe building contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is
incorporated herein and is hereby supplemented to provide minimum standards for
building conditions or maintenance in the town by adding the following
definitions.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. The definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY
INTEREST set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2 is hereby incorporated by reference herein
as if copied in full.
      UNSAFE BUILDING. Any building or structure which has any or all of the
conditions or defects hereinafter described, provided that such conditions or
defects exist to the extent that life, health, property or safety of the public
or the occupants are endangered.
         (a)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is
not of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
         (b)   Whenever the walking surface or any aisle, passageway, stairway
or other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as
to not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
         (c)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portions thereof
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or
location;
         (d)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire,
earthquake, wind, flood or by any other cause, to such an extent that the
structural strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before
such catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location;
         (e)   Whenever any portion, member of appurtenance thereof is likely
to fail to become detached or dislodged or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
         (f)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance
or ornamentation, or the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
         (g)   Whenever any portion thereof is wrecked, warped, buckled or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than in required in the case
of similar new construction;
         (h)   Whenever the building or structure or any portion thereof,
because of:
            1.   Dilapidation, deterioration or decay;
            2.   Faulty construction;
            3.   The removal movement, or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
            4.   The deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its foundation; or
            5.   Any other cause is likely to partially or completely collapse.
         (i)   Whenever for any reason the building or structure or any portion
thereof is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
         (j)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows 33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members
or 50% damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings;
         (k)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or deterioration so as
to become:
            1.   An attractive nuisance to children; or
            2.   Freely accessible to persons for the purpose of committing
unauthorized or unlawful acts.
         (l)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists
or is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
if the town or of any law or ordinance of this state or the county relating to
the condition, location or structure of buildings;
         (m)   Whenever any building or structure, which whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances has in any non-supporting
part, member or portion less than 50% or in any supporting part, member or
portion less than 66% of the:
            1.   Strength;
            2.   Fire resisting qualities or characteristics; or
            3.   Weather resisting qualities or characteristics required by law
in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height or occupancy
in the same locations.
         (n)   Whenever a building or structure used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because or inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate utilities, light, air or
sanitation facilities or otherwise is determined by the County Health
Department to be unsanitary or unfit for human habitation or in such a
condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease;
         (o)   Whenever any building or structure, because or obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire resistive construction is determined by an established Fire
Department to be a fire hazard; and
         (p)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a
site after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or
whenever any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six
months so as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive
nuisance or hazard to the public.
(Ord. 04-01, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 21-2004, passed - -2004)
§ 150.06  STANDARDS AND PRACTICES.
   (A)   All work for the reconstruction, repair or demolition of buildings and
other structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner according to
the accepted standards and practices in the trade.
   (B)   The provisions of the building law, as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-3,
adopted as rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, shall
be considered standard and acceptable practice for all matters covered by this
chapter or orders used pursuant to this chapter by the Inspector.
(Ord. 04-01, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 21-2004, passed - -2004)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.07  BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating budget of the
town in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
(Ord. 04-01, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 150.08  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and adoption by the Town Council and publication as required by state law.
(Ord. 04-01, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee or
occupant, shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve,
remove, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or premises, or
cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter or state statute or any order issued by the
Inspector.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or I.C. 36-7-9-28
shall commit a Class C infraction for each day such violation continues.
(Ord. 04-01, passed 12-13-2004; Ord. 21-2004, passed - -2004)
CHAPTER 151:  MOBILE HOMES
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Restriction of mobile homes
   
151.03   Requirements of owner-occupant
   
151.04   Improvements by owner-occupant
   
151.05   Other exception
   
151.06   Travel trailers not mobile homes
Mobile Home Parks
   
151.20   Requirements
   
151.21   Limitation to number of mobile home parks
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLOSE RELATIVE. A grandmother, grand- father, mother, father, son, daughter,
brother or sister of the owner or owners, or any of them, of the tract of land
or lot on which the mobile home is located.
   DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which does not possess a toilet, sink,
bath or shower facilities.
   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which has a self-contained toilet,
sink and bath or shower facilities.
   MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle, including the equipment sold as a part of a
vehicle, which is so constructed as to permit it being used as a conveyance
upon public streets or highways by either self-propelled or not self-propelled
means, which is designed, constructed or reconstructed, or added to by means of
an enclosed addition or room in the manner as will permit the occupancy thereof
as a dwelling for one or more persons, which is both used and occupied as a
dwelling having no foundation other than wheels, jacks, skirting or other
temporary supports.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land upon which two or more mobile homes are
harbored for the purpose of being occupied either free of charge or for revenue
purposes, and shall include any building, structure, vehicle or enclosure used
or intended for use as a part of the equipment of the mobile home park.
   OWNER-OCCUPANT. A natural person, who at the time of the effective date of
this chapter:
      (1)   Owns an independent mobile home;
      (2)   Owns the tract of land or lot on which the mobile home is located;
and
      (3)   Occupies the mobile home as a single- family residence. No person
shall be considered to be an owner-occupant unless at the time of the effective
date of this chapter he or she owns and has title to both:
         (a)   An independent mobile home;
         (b)   The tract of land or lot on which the mobile home is located;
and
         (c)   Occupies the mobile home as a single-family residence; provided,
however, that the ownership of an independent mobile home by a close relative
shall be considered the same as the ownership thereof by the owner of the tract
of land or lot on which the mobile home is located and shall meet the
requirement of division (1) above; and that the occupancy of the mobile home as
a residence by a close relative shall be considered the same as the occupancy
thereof by the owner of the tract of land or lot on which the mobile home is
located and shall meet the requirements of division (3) above.
   PARTIALLY DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which possesses a toilet and
sink but does not possess a bath or shower facilities.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular portable structure built on a chassis, designed
to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation uses,
factory equipped for the road. TRAVEL TRAILER also means a camper-type trailer
which is designed for use on a truck.
(Ord. 5, passed - -)
§ 151.02  RESTRICTION OF MOBILE HOMES.
   From and after the effective date of this chapter, the location of mobile
homes for any purpose within this municipal jurisdiction, except in a mobile
home park, shall not be allowed; provided, however, that any owner-occupant of
an independent mobile home at the time of the effective date of this chapter
who meets the requirements of §
151.03 shall be excepted from this restriction, and provided further, that the
location of mobile homes for the purposes specified in §
151.05.
(Ord. 5, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03  REQUIREMENTS OF OWNER- OCCUPANT.
   (A)   The following requirements must be met with regard to the owned mobile
home in order for any owner-occupant of an independent mobile home to be
excepted from the restrictions of §
151.02:
      (1)   The mobile home shall have a minimum floor area of 480 square feet
and shall not be located on any tract of land or lot whose dimensions are less
than 40 feet by 140 feet;
      (2)   The mobile home shall be properly connected to the town’s sewer
system, if available, or to an approved septic system, provided there be no
more than one mobile home on a 1,000-gallon septic tank, approved by the County
Board of Health;
      (3)   The mobile home shall be properly connected to the town’s water
system;
      (4)   The mobile home must be kept in good appearance, repainted when
needed, and maintained in good repair, and the lot on which the mobile home is
located shall be kept clean and in good appearance.
Any person or persons affected by this section, after being given notice by the
town, shall thereafter have a period of 30 days to fulfill the requirements of
this section prior to penalty;
      (5)   The mobile home may not be inhabited by a greater number of persons
than that for which it was designed;
      (6)   The mobile home shall meet the Mobile Home Code A119.1, as approved
by the American Standards Association; and
      (7)   All mobile homes shall not be located closer than 25 feet to a
front, 11 feet to a rear and five feet to a side property line.
   (B)   Provided, however, any owner-occupant already meeting the requirements
of division (A)(1) through (A)(6) above shall be given 90 days from the
effective date of this chapter to fulfill the requirements of division (A)(7)
above.
(Ord. 5, passed - -)
§ 151.04  IMPROVEMENTS BY OWNER- OCCUPANT.
   Any owner-occupant who, having met all of the requirements of §
151.03, shall be permitted to substitute a newer model independent mobile home
for the old one.
(Ord. 5, passed - -)
§ 151.05  OTHER EXCEPTION.
   (A)   The location of mobile homes for the following purposes shall be
excepted from the restriction of §
151.02:
      (1)   Emergency or temporary parking of a mobile home on the public
streets of this town shall be permitted for not longer than 24 hours provided
that the mobile home shall be subject to all other traffic and parking
regulations of this town;
      (2)   The storage of one mobile home in an accessory or private garage
building located in the rear yard of any occupied dwelling shall be permitted,
providing that no living quarters shall be maintained or any business conducted
in the mobile home while so stored;
      (3)   Mobile homes, when unoccupied as living quarters, may be parked or
stored for the purposes of inspection and sale upon any automobile or mobile
home sales lot; and
      (4)   A mobile home may be located as a field office for any construction
project for a period of not more than 12 months upon application with the Town
Council for a permit therefor and payment of a fee in the amount of $5, to be
deposited in the town General Fund.
   (B)   The permit may be renewed, provided, however, that the mobile home
must be removed by the owner within 15 days from the time of completion of that
particular portion of the construction project for which the owner was
responsible.
   (C)   Completion shall mean the time that the work of the owner was accepted
by any project owner, general contractor or subcontractor, pursuant to the
terms of the governing contract.
(Ord. 5, passed - -)
§ 151.06  TRAVEL TRAILERS NOT MOBILE HOMES.
   A travel trailer or camper-type trailer, as defined in §
151.01, is not to be considered a mobile home and may be stored in the rear of
any occupied dwelling; no permit shall be required.
(Ord. 5, passed - -)
MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 151.20  REQUIREMENTS.
   All mobile home parks shall comply with the provisions of this chapter, all
zoning ordinances of this town and any other applicable ordinances of this
town, all regulations of the State Fire Marshal, all regulations of the State
Board of Health, all regulations of the County Board of Health and all laws of
the state.
(Ord. 5, passed - -)
§ 151.21  LIMITATION TO NUMBER OF MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   After the effective date of this chapter, no additional mobile home parks
shall be allowed within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 5, passed - -)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   Any person or persons, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions
in this chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $1,000.
(Ord. 5, passed - -)
CHAPTER 152:  ZONING CODE
Section
   
152.01   County zoning laws
§ 152.01  COUNTY ZONING LAWS.
   Vigo County zoning laws are followed in the town.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
      
II.   HOUSING AND DEVELOPMENT
      
III.   VACATIONS
TABLE I:  AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
 
Ord. No./ Agreement Date Passed Description
                                Agreement for the operation and management
                                services by and between the town and the City
-                   3-4-2013    of Terre Haute to perform certain services
                                necessary to operate the sewer collection
                                system and plant.
                                Agreement between the Town Water Works
-                   12-30-2013  Corporation and the Sugar Creek Fire Protection
                                District to provide water hydrant service by
                                the town to the township.
                                Interlocal cooperation agreement allowing the
-                   5-11-2015   Town Redevelopment Commission to act on behalf
                                of the county with respect to certain
                                redevelopment projects.
 
TABLE II:  HOUSING AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Adopting the Strategic Development Plan and that the
Res. 2014-3   3-10-2014   proposed development of Providence Place, Phase VI is
                          an effort by the Providence Housing Corporation to
                          revitalize the town.
Res. 15-2     1-12-2015   Approving the Paris Avenue housing program area.
 
TABLE III:  VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Vacating a 20-foot alley running northeast and southwest
14-9     11-10-2014  adjacent to and contiguous with Lot 67 through Lot 60 and
                     Lot 59 through Lot 55.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section               Code Section
1-1-1-5                    10.04
1-1-1-7                    10.12
1-1-1-8                    10.06
1-1-4-5                    10.05
1-1-5-1                    10.11
1-1-6-1                    10.08
3-10-7                     32.21
3-13-11 et seq.            32.04
5-2-4                      35.19
5-2-8-2                    34.56
                           31.67,
5-3-1                      31.69,
                           91.08,
                           93.04
5-4-1                      32.06
5-4-1-5.1                  32.06
5-11-1-9                   35.19
5-11-10 et seq.            31.18
5-11-10-1.6                34.18
5-11-10-2                  34.17
5-11-13-1                  36.39
5-14-1.5 et seq.           31.22
5-14-1.5-3(a)              31.15
5-14-1.5-3(b)              31.15
5-14-1.5-3.5               31.19
5-14-1.5-3.6               31.19
5-14-1.5-4(a)              31.18
5-14-1.5-4(b)              31.19
5-14-1.5-4(c)              31.19
5-14-1.5-5                 31.17
5-14-1.5-6.1               31.16,
                           35.21
5-14-3 et seq.             35.15,
                           35.16
5-14-3-2                   35.18
5-14-3-3                   31.16
5-14-3-3(c)(2)             35.17
5-14-3-4(b)(12)            31.16
5-14-3-6(c)                35.17
5-14-3-8(g)                35.17
5-14-3-9                   35.20
5-14-3.5                   35.17
5-15                       35.21
5-22                       36.38
6-1.1-17                   34.36,
                           34.37
6-1.1-17-3                 34.35
6-1.1-18-5                 34.55,
                           34.57
6-1.1-18-7.5               34.55,
                           34.57
6-3.5-7-13.1               34.61
6-7-1-31.1                 34.60
8-14-1                     34.21
8-14-1-5                   34.64
8-14-2                     34.21
8-14-2-5                   34.63
8-17-1-2.1                 90.002
9-13-2-1                   91.02
9-13-2-112                 71.52
9-21-8-42                  71.50
9-21-13-1                  71.47
9-21-13-2                  71.47
9-21-13-3                  71.47
9-21-13-4                  71.47
9-21-13-5                  71.47
9-21-13-6                  71.47
9-29-4-2                   34.56
9-29-11-1                  34.56
10-16-7-5                  32.05
13-11-1-1 et seq.          51.01
14-22-26-3                 90.002
15-17-11                   90.045
15-17-18-8                 90.002
15-20-1-4                  90.002
15-20-1-5                  90.002,
                           90.082
15-20-1-5(e)               90.082
16-18-2-272(d)             35.17
16-18-2-295(a)             35.17
22-12-1-3                  150.06
24-2-3-2                   35.17
25                         31.16
32-34-1                    53.02
32-34-1-1                  53.02
33-35-3-1                  32.22
33-35-3-2                  32.22
33-36-2-1                  33.01
33-36-2-2                  33.01
33-36-2-3                  33.01
33-36-3                    33.01
33-36-3-1                  33.01
33-36-3-2                  33.01
33-36-3-3                  33.01
33-36-3-5                  33.01
33-36-3-6                  33.01
33-36-3-7                  33.01
33-37-5-8                  34.56
35-42-4                    35.19
35-44.1-1-4                36.38
35-46-3                    90.001,
                           90.002
35-46-3-8.5                90.002
35-46-3-9                  90.002
35-47-2-3                  34.56
35-47-3-2                  34.56
35-47-7-4                  90.002
36-1-3-8(a)                90.082
36-1-3-8(a)(10)            10.99
36-1-3-8(a)(10)(b)         90.999
36-1-5                     31.67
36-1-5-4                   35.16
36-1-8 et seq.             32.25,
                           32.26
36-1-8-9                   34.58
36-1-12                    36.38
36-5-2-3(a)                31.01
36-5-2-3(b)                31.01
36-5-2-3(c)                31.01
36-5-2-3(d)                31.01
36-5-2-3(e)                31.01
36-5-2-4.1                 31.67,
                           31.69
36-5-2-4.2                 31.66
36-5-2-7                   31.04
36-5-2-8                   31.21
36-5-2-9                   31.03
36-5-2-9.2                 31.20
36-5-2-9.4(a)              31.65
36-5-2-9.4(b)              31.66
36-5-2-9.6                 31.65
36-5-2-9.8                 31.66
36-5-2-10                  31.69
36-5-2-10(c)               31.69
36-5-3-3                   34.35
36-5-3-4                   34.36
36-5-3-5                   34.37,
                           34.50
36-5-4 et seq.             31.18
36-5-4-2                   34.15
36-5-4-3                   34.16
36-5-4-4                   34.17
36-5-4-6                   34.18
36-5-4-7                   34.19
36-5-4-12                  34.20
36-5-4-13(b)               34.21
36-5-6-2                   32.22
36-5-6-3(a)                32.20
36-5-6-3(b)                32.21
36-5-6-3(c)                32.21
36-5-6-3(d)                32.21
36-5-6-4                   32.21
36-5-6-5                   32.22
36-5-6-5.1                 32.24
36-5-6-6                   32.22
36-5-6-7                   32.23
36-5-6-8                   32.23
36-7                       31.66,
                           31.69
36-7-9                     150.01
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 150.02
36-7-9-2                   150.05
36-7-9-4                   150.05
36-7-9-14                  150.07
36-7-9-28                  150.02,
                           150.99
36-7-10.1                  Ch. 94
36-7-10.1-4                94.07
36-7-14-12.2               34.62
36-7-14-39                 34.62
36-7-23                    34.60
36-8-3-4                   31.04
36-8-3-7                   33.02
36-9-23-28                 53.02
36-9-23-28.5               53.02
36-9-23-31                 53.02
36-9-23-32                 53.02
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.   Date Passed Code Section
4, 2011    12-12-2011  35.01
12-1, 2012 5-14-2012   30.02
12-2-2012  6-11-2012   36.35—
                       36.39
12-3, 2012 7-9-2012    34.01
2014-3     3-10-2014   TSO II
15-2       1-12-2015   TSO II
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed   Code Section
-         - -           70.01,
                        70.99
-         - -           Ch. 74, Sch. II
                        92.01,
                        92.02,
-         - -           92.15—
                        92.21,
                        92.99
                        131.01—
-         - -           131.05,
                        131.99
1         - -           11.01
                        Ch. 33, App. A,
                        70.15,
                        71.01—
                        71.04,
                        71.15,
                        71.30,
                        71.31,
                        71.45—
2         - -           71.52,
                        72.01—
                        72.07,
                        72.20,
                        72.35,
                        72.36,
                        73.01,
                        73.02,
                        Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                        Ch. 74, Sch. III
                        151.01—
                        151.06,
5         - -           151.20,
                        151.21,
                        151.99
                        Ch. 33, App. A,
9         - -           130.02,
                        130.99
                        Ch. 33, App. A,
11        - -           110.15—
                        110.22,
                        110.99
                        Ch. 33, App. A,
                        111.01,
12        - -           111.03,
                        111.04,
                        111.99
                        110.35—
13        - -           110.44,
                        110.99
15        - -           33.02
                        Ch. 33, App. A,
16        - -           130.01,
                        130.99
20        - -           110.01,
                        110.02
14-2000   - -           33.02,
                        Ch. 33, App. A
17-1997   4-14-1997     Ch. 33, App. A,
                        70.02
3         4-21-1998     92.22,
                        92.99
-         7-10-2000     Ch. 74, Sch. II
2-2000    9-5-2000      Ch. 74, Sch. II
                        Ch. 33, App. A,
18-2000   9-5-2000      95.05,
                        95.99
                        112.01—
2002-20   11-12-2002    112.03,
                        112.99
                        Ch. 33, App. A,
                        93.01—
04-02     - -2004       93.04,
                        93.15—
                        93.17,
                        93.99
                        150.01—
21-2004   - -2004       150.06,
                        150.99
1-2004    2-9-2004      36.15—
                        36.22
                        Ch. 33, App. A,
04-01     12-13-2004    150.01—
                        150.08,
                        150.99
04-03     12-13-2004    Ch. 33, App. A
9         5-14-2012     130.03,
                        130.99
                        91.01—
-         8-31-2012     91.11,
                        91.99
14-2012   eff. 1-1-2013 50.02
15-2012   eff. 1-1-2013 50.01
2013-     9-9-2013      34.58
2014-1    3-10-2014     34.59
14-5-2014 5-12-2014     51.01—
                        51.06
14-7-2014 5-12-2014     52.01
14-8-2014 5-12-2014     54.01
14-6-2014 5-28-2014     53.01
14-8-2014 9-8-2014      33.02
14-9      11-10-2014    TSO III
15-7-2015 9-14-2015     51.07
12-2015   10-13-2015    53.01
 
