CITY OF WESTFIELD, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 25-30, passed 7-28-2025; and
State legislation current through
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY BOUNDARIES
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title; citation; reference
   
10.02   Definitions and rules of construction
   
10.03   Interpretation of language
   
10.04   History notes
   
10.05   Editor’s notes, references
   
10.06   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.07   Code does not affect prior offenses, rights, obligations or other acts
   
10.08   Acts by agents
   
10.09   Prohibited acts include causing and permitting
   
10.10   Computation of time
   
10.11   Purposes of ordinances
   
10.12   Effect of ordinance repeal
   
10.13   Errors and omissions
   
10.14   Reference applies to amendments
   
10.15   Section catchlines, other headings
   
10.16   Severability of parts of code
   
10.17   Amendments to code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language
   
10.18   Supplementation of code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE; CITATION; REFERENCE.
   This code shall be known as the “Code of Ordinances, of Westfield, Indiana”
and it shall be sufficient to refer to this code as the “Code of Ordinances,
City of Westfield, Indiana” in any prosecution for the violation of any
provision thereof or in any proceeding at law or amending, correcting or
repealing all or any part or portion thereof as an addition to, amendment to,
correction or repeal of the “Code of Ordinances, City of Westfield, Indiana”.
Further reference may be had to the titles, chapters, subchapters, sections and
divisions of the “Code of Ordinances, City of Westfield, Indiana” and such
references shall apply to that numbered titles, chapters, subchapters, sections
or divisions as it appears in the code.
(Prior Code, § 1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Codification authorized, see I.C. 36-1-5-3
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this code and of all ordinances passed by the City
Council, the following definitions and rules shall be observed, unless such
construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council. For
the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Westfield, Indiana, or the area within the territorial
limits of the outside of the city over which the city has jurisdiction or
control by virtue of any constitutional or statutory provision.
   CODE. Whenever the term CODE or THIS CODE is referred to without further
qualification, it shall mean the Code of Ordinances, City of Westfield,
Indiana, as designated in §
10.01.
   COUNCIL, CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Westfield, Indiana.
   COUNTY. The County of Hamilton, State of Indiana
   GENDER. Each gender includes the masculine, feminine and neuter genders.
   I.C. The Indiana Code, as now or hereafter amended.
   LAW. Denotes applicable federal law, the Constitution and statutes of the
State of Indiana, the ordinances of the city and, when appropriate, any and all
rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUST, SHALL. Each are mandatory.
   NUMBER. The singular number includes the plural and the plural includes the
singular.
   OATH. The term OATH includes an affirmation, and the words SWEAR and SWORN
shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OR, AND. The term OR may be read AND, and the term AND may be read OR, if
the sense requires it.
   OWNER. When applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, tenant by the entirety of the whole or a
part of such building or land.
   PERSON. Includes a natural person, joint venture, joint stock company,
partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business, trust,
organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of
any of them.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes money, goods, chattels, things in action and
evidences of debt.
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. The next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   SIDEWALK. The part of a street between the curblines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Indiana.
   STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part of the way is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel. The term includes an alley.
   TENANT, OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, include any person who
occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   TENSE. Words used in the present tense include the past and the future
tenses and vice versa, unless manifestly inapplicable.
   TITLE OF OFFICE. Use of the title of any officer, employee, department,
board, commission or agency means that officer, employee, department, board,
commission or agency of the city.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other mode of
representing words and letters.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 1-2)
State court rule reference:
   Affirmation in lieu of oath, see Rules of Trial Procedure, Rule 43(D)
Statutory reference:
   Gender defined, see I.C. 1-1-4-1(4)
   Number defined, see I.C. 1-1-4-1(3)
   Oath defined, see I.C. 1-1-4-5(13)
   Person defined, see I.C. 1-1-4-5(14)
   Personal property defined, see I.C. 1-1-4-5(15)
   “Preceding and following” defined, see I.C. 1-1-4-5(17)
   Property defined, see I.C. 1-1-4-5(18)
   “Real property” defined, see I.C. 1-1-4-5(9)
   References to Indiana Code include later amendments, see I.C. 1-1-1-5(h)
   Sidewalk defined, see I.C. 9-13-2-167
   State defined, see I.C. 1-1-4-5(20)
   Street defined, see I.C. 9-13-2-175
   Jurisdiction of a municipality, see I.C. 36-1-3-9
   Written defined, see I.C. 1-1-4-5(25)
   Year defined, see I.C. 1-1-4-5(26)
§ 10.03 INTERPRETATION OF LANGUAGE.
   All words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and
approved usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others
as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be
construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
(Prior Code, § 1-3)
§ 10.04 HISTORY NOTES.
   The history notes appearing in parentheses after sections in this code are
not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to indicate the
source of matter contained in the sections.
(Prior Code, § 1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Source and history lines not part of law, see I.C. 1-1-1-5(g)
§ 10.05 EDITOR’S NOTES, REFERENCES.
   The editor’s notes, cross-references and state law references in this code
are not intended to have any legal effect but are merely intended to assist the
user of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-5)
§ 10.06 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect
any ordinance:
      (1)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city’s
indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
      (2)   Granting any right or franchise;
      (3)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating and the like any street or public way in the city;
      (4)   Making any appropriation;
      (5)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the city;
      (6)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
      (7)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city or
otherwise relating to subdivisions;
      (8)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the city;
      (9)   Prescribing the number, classification benefits or compensation of
any city officers or employees, not inconsistent with this code;
      (10)   Accepting gifts and dedications of real estate;
      (11)   Accepting, releasing or abandoning easements;
      (12)   Relating to zoning or any other subject matter included in the
Westfield-Washington Township Unified Development Ordinance adopted in §
153.01;
      (13)   Relating to improvement location permits;
      (14)   Establishing or amending a comprehensive plan;
      (15)   Establishing or amending a thoroughfare plan;
      (16)   Relating to taxation, not inconsistent with this code;
      (17)   Creating a specific fund;
      (18)   Which is temporary, although general in effect;
      (19)   Which is special, although permanent in effect;
      (20)   The purpose of which has been accomplished;
      (21)   Establishing rates, charges, fees or other such numerical
designations; and
      (22)   Pertaining to other subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code.
   (B)   (1)   All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code.
      (2)   Such ordinances are on file in the Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Prior Code, § 1-7)
§ 10.07 CODE DOES NOT AFFECT PRIOR OFFENSES, RIGHTS, OBLIGATIONS OR OTHER ACTS.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect
any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or
any contract or right established or accruing, before the effective date of
this code.
   (B)   Neither the adoption of this code nor the repeal or amendment hereby
of any ordinance or part or portion of any ordinance of the city shall in any
manner affect the prosecution for violations of ordinances, which violations
were committed prior to the effective date hereof, nor be construed as a waiver
of any license, fee or penalty at the effective date due and unpaid under such
ordinances, nor be construed as affecting any of the provisions of such
ordinances relating to the collection of any such license, fee or penalty, or
the penal validity of any bond or cash deposit in lieu thereof required to be
posted, filed or deposited pursuant to any ordinance and all rights and
obligations thereunder shall continue in full force and effect.
(Prior Code, § 1-8)
Statutory reference:
   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, requirements and liabilities,
see I.C. 1-1-1-6
§ 10.08 ACTS BY AGENTS.
   When an act is required by an ordinance, being such that it may be done as
well by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts performed by an authorized agent.
(Prior Code, § 1-9)
§ 10.09 PROHIBITED ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING AND PERMITTING.
   Whenever in the ordinances of the city any act or omission is made unlawful,
it shall include causing, allowing, permitting, abiding, abetting, suffering or
concealing the fact of such act or omission.
(Prior Code, § 1-10)
§ 10.10 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   Except when otherwise provided, the time within which an act is required to
be done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last
day, unless the last day is Sunday or a holiday, in which case it shall also be
excluded.
(Prior Code, § 1-11)
§ 10.11 PURPOSES OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of the ordinances of the city, and all proceedings under them
are to be construed with a view to effect their objects and to promote justice.
(Prior Code, § 1-12)
§ 10.12 EFFECT OF ORDINANCE REPEAL.
   The repeal of an ordinance shall not repeal the repealing clause of an
ordinance or revive any ordinance which has been repealed thereby.
(Prior Code, § 1-13)
Statutory reference:
   Effect of repeal, see I.C. 1-1-5-1
§ 10.13 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word,
the omission of any word necessary to express the intention of the provisions
affected, the use of a word to which no meaning can be attached or the use of a
word when another word was clearly intended to express such intent, such
spelling shall be corrected, and such word supplied, omitted or substituted as
will conform with the manifest intention, and provision shall have the same
effect as though the word added had been originally included. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
(Prior Code, § 1-14)
§ 10.14 REFERENCE APPLIES TO AMENDMENTS.
   Whenever a reference is made to this code as the “Code of Ordinances, City
of Westfield, Indiana” or to any portion thereof, or to any ordinances of the
city, the references shall apply to all amendments, corrections and additions
heretofore, now or hereafter made.
(Prior Code, § 1-15)
§ 10.15 SECTION CATCHLINES, OTHER HEADINGS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and
shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of such sections, nor as any part
of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any
such catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, subchapter or
division.
(Prior Code, § 1-16)
Statutory reference:
   Headings not part of law, see I.C. 1-1-1-5(f)
§ 10.16 SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this code, or its
application to any persons or circumstances, is for any reason held to be
invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this code or their application. The City Council hereby
declares that it would have passed this code and each section, division,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, divisions, sentences, clauses or phrases had been declared
invalid or unconstitutional.
(Prior Code, § 1-17)
Statutory reference:
   Severability of statutes, see I.C. 1-1-1-8
§ 10.17 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code of ordinances, may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion in this code. in
the case of repeal of chapters, sections and divisions or any part thereof, by
subsequent ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the code by
omission from reprinted pages affected thereby. any and all additions and
amendments to this code, when passed in such form as to indicate the intention
of the Council to make them a part of the code, shall be deemed to be
incorporated in this code, so that a reference to the code shall be understood
and intended to include such additions and amendments.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code may be made by
amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in substantially the following language: “That section _____ of the Code
of Ordinances, City of Westfield, Indiana, is hereby amended to read as
follows:….” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as enacted.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language may be used: “That the Code of Ordinances, City of
Westfield, Indiana, is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered
_____, which section reads as follows:….” The new section shall then be set out
in full as enacted.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters or provisions desired to be
repealed shall be specifically repealed by section, subchapter or chapter
number, as the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 1-18)
§ 10.18 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract, or by city personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the City Council. A
supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all
changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages that have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new
pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code will be
current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in
the supplement.
   (B)   In the preparation of a supplement to this code, all portions of the
code that have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission
thereof from reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person authorized to prepare the supplement) may make formal, nonsubstantive
changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement,
insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For
example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in such catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this subchapter”, “this section” and the like as the case may
be, or to “sections _____ to _____” (inserting section numbers to indicate the
sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
(Prior Code, § 1-19)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions or failing to comply with any of
the mandatory requirements of this code or the ordinances of the city shall be
guilty of an offense. Except in cases where different punishment is prescribed
by this code or any ordinance of the city, any person convicted of an offense
shall be punished by a judgment of not more than $2,500. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day that a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum fine permitted, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B)
CHAPTER 11: CITY BOUNDARIES
Section
   
11.01   Adoption of official map by reference
   
11.02   Boundary agreement adopted by reference
§ 11.01 ADOPTION OF OFFICIAL MAP BY REFERENCE.
   The city official map, as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted by
reference and made a part of this section as fully as if attached hereto and
incorporated herein, and is on public display in the city hall, and filed with
the offices of the Community Development Department. The boundaries set forth
therein shall constitute the official boundaries of the city. The map was duly
adopted by the City Council on August 4, 1981, and augmented by boundaries per
subsequent ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2-601)
§ 11.02 BOUNDARY AGREEMENT ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Ordinance 95-12, adopted on July 10, 1995, which established a boundary
agreement between the City of Noblesville and the City of Westfield, is hereby
adopted by reference and made a part of this section as fully as if attached
hereto and incorporated herein, and is filed in the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2-602)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   CITY COUNCIL
      
32.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
33.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
35.   LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
36.   ELECTIONS
      
37.   FINANCE
      
38.   FUNDS
      
39.   FEES
      
40.   ORDINANCE VIOLATION DEFERRAL PROGRAM
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Town becoming a city; adopting second class city status
   
30.02   Membership in associations
   
30.03   Payments to city by credit card
   
30.04   Bidding requirements
   
30.05   Prohibiting the use of public records for commercial purposes
Purchasing Agencies
   
30.20   Designating departments as purchasing agencies; adopting uniform small
purchase policy
   
30.21   Designating the Police Department as a purchasing agent
   
30.22   Designating the Fire Department as a purchasing agent
Statutory reference:
   Home rule, see I.C. 36-1-3-1 et seq.
   Towns, see I.C. 36-4-1 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 TOWN BECOMING A CITY; ADOPTING SECOND CLASS CITY STATUS.
   (A)   (1)   The Town of Westfield, Indiana is a duly formed municipal
corporation within the State of Indiana. The Town Council has enacted the
appropriate legislation to convert the Town of Westfield into the City of
Westfield effective January 1, 2008.
      (2)   All acts undertaken by the Town of Westfield, its boards,
commissions, committees shall be deemed to have been undertaken by the City of
Westfield.
   (B)   (1)   The City of Westfield has attained a population in excess of
35,000 persons.
      (2)   I.C. 36-4-1-1.1 provides that the legislative body of a third class
city may, by ordinance, adopt second class city status. The Common Council
adopts second class city status for the City of Westfield.
      (3)   Under the guidelines in I.C. 36-4-6-3, the Council shall pass an
ordinance dividing the city into six Common Council districts, which includes
at-large districts. The districts shall be effective for the term of the
Council members beginning in January 1, 2028, shall be made in accordance with
law, shall be based upon the latest decennial census, and shall not cross
precinct boundaries.
      (4)   Upon the city becoming a second class city, all ordinances, rules
and regulations of the city shall continue in full force and effect, except
where inconsistent with a second class city powers, until amended or repealed,
or unless inconsistent with state law.
      (5)   Before January 1, 2028, and under the city’s current budget
procedures, the city’s executive shall establish a budget for the newly created
appointed position and executive Department of the Controller.
      (6)   Before January 1, 2028, and under the city’s current budget
procedures, the Common Council shall establish a budget for the elected
position of Clerk of the city.
(Ord. 07-25, passed 12-10-2007; Ord. 23-33, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 30.02 MEMBERSHIP IN ASSOCIATIONS.
   (A)   Appropriation of funds. The City Council is hereby authorized to
appropriate necessary funds to provide membership for the city in state and
national associations of a civic, educational or governmental nature which have
as their purpose the betterment and improvement of municipal operations.
   (B)   Participation in associations. The city is hereby authorized to
participate through duly designated representatives in the meetings and
activities of such associations and the City Council is authorized to
appropriate necessary funds to defray the expenses of such representatives in
connection therewith.
(Prior Code, § 2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance making annual appropriations, see I.C. 36-4-3-4
§ 30.03 PAYMENTS TO CITY BY CREDIT CARD.
   (A)   The Council now being duly advised, finds that the sum of $2, within
purview of Council to modify if desired, is necessary for the city to offer the
option of making payments by credit card. Council further finds that the fee is
only adequate to cover the costs of administering this service.
   (B)   Any and all information required to be accumulated to allow for the
credit card payments to be offered and administered by the city shall be a
condition precedent to the acceptance of credit card payments.
(Prior Code, § 2-3) (Ord. 16-15, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 30.04 BIDDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Unless approved by the Council, no purchase, series of purchases, contract
or series of contracts shall be executed for supplies, materials, equipment,
nonprofessional contractual services, construction, change orders or
improvements requiring expenditures of more than $150,000 from any fund
allocated or controlled by the Council without first requiring three bids.
(Ord. 20-03, passed 1-13-2020)
§ 30.05 PROHIBITING THE USE OF PUBLIC RECORDS FOR COMMERCIAL PURPOSES.
   Any individual or entity receiving public records or information, pursuant
to a request made under I.C. 5-14-3-3, shall not use the records or information
for commercial purposes. This prohibition does not apply to the use of such
records in connection with the preparation or publication of news, for
nonprofit activities, or for academic research.
(Ord. 23-13, passed 7-10-2023)
PURCHASING AGENCIES
§ 30.20 DESIGNATING DEPARTMENTS AS PURCHASING AGENCIES; ADOPTING UNIFORM SMALL
PURCHASE POLICY.
   (A)   Designation of purchasing agencies. In accordance with I.C. 5-22-2-26,
the Board hereby declares the city’s departments, as designated by the city’s
executive, as purchasing agencies for the city.
   (B)   Powers of purchasing agencies. The purchasing agencies shall:
      (1)   Within its jurisdictional areas, assume the duties, powers and
responsibilities assigned to purchasing agencies under the Act;
      (2)   Establish procedures, not inconsistent with the Act or this
section, for obtaining materials, supplies, equipment or contractual services
for his or her department as may be best suited to obtain the greatest economic
value for the city department;
      (3)   Prepare specifications and notice to bidders and ascertain that
required notices are published where bidding and publication of notices are
required by law;
      (4)   Cooperate and consult with the City Clerk or his or her designee
for the purpose of ensuring that adequate funds are available prior to making
necessary purchases and acquisitions to assure that they are within the limits
of the budget appropriations; and
      (5)   Designate, in writing, such additional purchasing agents as are
necessary to carry out the purposes of the resolution.
   (C)   Small purchase procedures.
      (1)   The department directors are hereby declared purchasing agents
(“purchasing agents”) and are authorized to purchase materials or supplies with
an estimated cost of less than $50,000 on the open market without inviting or
receiving quotes or bids.
      (2)   Department supervisors are hereby declared purchasing agents and
are authorized to purchase materials or supplies with an estimated cost of less
than $25,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes or bids.
      (3)   Director designated personnel are hereby declared purchasing agents
and are authorized to purchase materials or supplies with an estimated cost of
less than $5,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes or
bids.
      (4)   The department directors must authorize the purchase of all
materials and supplies with an estimated cost of $10,000 to $50,000.
   (D)   P-card purchases. All P-card purchases shall be in accordance with the
policies and guidelines set forth by the purchase card policies and §
37.001.
   (E)   Preparation of specifications and spreadsheet of specifications.
       (1)   Specifications shall be prepared by the purchasing agents for all
materials and supplies to be purchased. Such specifications shall describe the
materials and supplies to be purchased with reasonable specificity and may
describe such criteria as shall be used to evaluate materials and supplies
offered for purchase. Such criteria may include provisions for inspection and
testing of supplies; ascertaining the quality and workmanship of supplies;
determining the delivery time for supplies; and, in the case of supplies
provided by trusts, imposing the statutory requirements relevant to public
purchases from trusts.
      (2)   Specifications shall be written to promote economy for the purposes
intended.
      (3)   Specifications shall be written to encourage competition in
satisfying the needs of the city departments.
      (4)   The purchasing agents shall maintain a file of specifications
prepared by or under the authority of the purchasing agents.
   (F)   Purchase of services. The purchasing agencies may purchase all
services, with an estimated cost less than $50,000 in whatever manner the
purchasing agency determines to be reasonable.
(Res. 21-118, passed 5-26-2021)
§ 30.21 DESIGNATING THE POLICE DEPARTMENT AS A PURCHASING AGENT.
   (A)   Designation of purchasing agency. In accordance with IC 5-22-8 et
seq., the City Police Department (“Police Department”) shall be designated as a
purchasing agency for the city.
   (B)   Powers of purchasing agency. The purchasing agency shall:
      (1)   Within its jurisdictional areas, assume the duties, powers and
responsibilities assigned to purchasing agencies under the Act;
      (2)   Establish procedures, not inconsistent with the Act or this
section, for obtaining materials, supplies, equipment or contractual services
for the Police Department as may be best suited to obtain the greatest economic
value for the Police Department;
      (3)   Prepare specifications and notice to bidders and ascertain that
required notices are published where bidding and publication of notices are
required by law;
      (4)   Cooperate and consult with the City Clerk or his or her designee
for the purpose of ensuring that adequate funds are available prior to making
necessary purchases and acquisitions to assure that they are within the limits
of the budget appropriations; and
      (5)   Designate, in writing, such additional purchasing agents as are
necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.
   (C)   Small purchase procedures.
      (1)   Approved lieutenants are hereby declared purchasing agents
(“purchasing agent”) and are authorized to purchase materials or supplies with
an estimated cost of less than $1,000 on the open market without inviting or
receiving quotes or bids.
      (2)   Approved captains are hereby declared purchasing agents and are
authorized to purchase materials or supplies with an estimated cost of less
than $5,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes or bids.
      (3)   Fleet management personnel are hereby declared purchasing agents
and are authorized to purchase materials or supplies with an estimated cost of
less than $25,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes or
bids.
      (4)   The training coordinator is hereby declared a purchasing agent and
is authorized to purchase materials or supplies with an estimated cost of less
than $25,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes or bids.
      (5)   The Police Chief and Assistant Police Chief must authorize the
purchase of materials or supplies with an estimated cost of $5,000 to $50,000
and may do so on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes or bids.
      (6)   All P-card purchases shall be in accordance with the policies and
guidelines set forth by the purchase card policies and §
37.001.
   (D)   Preparation of specifications and spreadsheet of specifications.
      (1)   Specifications shall be prepared by the purchasing agent for all
materials and supplies to be purchased. Such specifications shall describe the
materials and supplies to be purchased with reasonable specificity and may
describe such criteria as shall be used to evaluate materials and supplies
offered for purchase. Such criteria may include provisions for inspection and
testing of supplies; ascertaining the quality and workmanship of supplies;
determining the delivery time for supplies; and, in the case of supplies
provided by trusts, imposing the statutory requirements relevant to public
purchases from trusts.
      (2)   Specifications shall be written to promote economy for the purposes
intended.
      (3)   Specifications shall be written to encourage competition in
satisfying the needs of the Police Department.
      (4)   The purchasing agent shall maintain a file of specifications
prepared by or under the authority of the purchasing agent.
   (E)   Purchase of services. The purchasing agency may purchase all services
in whatever manner the purchasing agency determines to be reasonable.
(Res. 21-119, passed 5-26-2021)
§ 30.22 DESIGNATING THE FIRE DEPARTMENT AS A PURCHASING AGENT.
   (A)   Designation of purchasing agency. In accordance with IC 5-22-8 et
seq., the City Fire Department (“Fire Department”) shall be designated as a
purchasing agency for the city.
   (B)   Powers of purchasing agency. The purchasing agency shall:
      (1)   Within its jurisdictional areas, assume the duties, powers and
responsibilities assigned to purchasing agencies under the Act;
      (2)   Establish procedures, not inconsistent with the Act or this
section, for obtaining materials, supplies, equipment or contractual services
for the Fire Department as may be best suited to obtain the greatest economic
value for the Fire Department;
      (3)   Prepare specifications and notice to bidders and ascertain that
required notices are published where bidding and publication of notices are
required by law;
      (4)   Cooperate and consult with the City Clerk or his or her designee
for the purpose of ensuring that adequate funds are available prior to making
necessary purchases and acquisitions to assure that they are within the limits
of the budget appropriations; and
      (5)   Designate, in writing, such additional purchasing agents as are
necessary to carry out the purposes of the resolution.
   (C)   Small purchase procedures.
      (1)   House captains/station officers are hereby declared purchasing
agents (“purchasing agent”) and are authorized to purchase materials or
supplies with an estimated cost of less than $1,000 on the open market without
inviting or receiving quotes or bids.
      (2)   Battalion chiefs are hereby declared purchasing agents and are
authorized to purchase materials or supplies with an estimated cost of less
than $3,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes or bids.
      (3)   Fleet maintenance personnel are hereby declared purchasing agents
and are authorized to purchase materials or supplies with an estimated cost of
less than $10,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes or
bids.
      (4)   Division chiefs are hereby declared purchasing agents and are
authorized to purchase materials or supplies with an estimated cost of less
than $25,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes or bids.
      (5)   The Fire Chief and Deputy Chiefs must authorize the purchase of
materials or supplies with an estimated cost of $25,000 to $50,000 and may do
so on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes or bids.
      (6)   All P-card purchases shall be in accordance with the policies and
guidelines set forth by the purchase card policies and §
37.001.
   (D)   Preparation of specifications and spreadsheet of specifications.
      (1)   Specifications shall be prepared by the purchasing agent for all
materials and supplies to be purchased. Such specifications shall describe the
materials and supplies to be purchased with reasonable specificity and may
describe such criteria as shall be used to evaluate materials and supplies
offered for purchase. Such criteria may include provisions for inspection and
testing of supplies; ascertaining the quality and workmanship of supplies;
determining the delivery time for supplies; and, in the case of supplies
provided by trusts, imposing the statutory requirements relevant to public
purchases from trusts.
      (2)   Specifications shall be written to promote economy for the purposes
intended.
      (3)   Specifications shall be written to encourage competition in
satisfying the needs of the Fire Department.
      (4)   The purchasing agent shall maintain a file of specifications
prepared by or under the authority of the purchasing agent.
   (E)   Purchase of services. The purchasing agency may purchase all services
in whatever manner the purchasing agency determines to be reasonable.
(Res. 21-115, passed 5-26-2021)
CHAPTER 31: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
31.01   Designation of city legislative body
   
31.02   Terms of Council members; term limits
   
31.03   Residency requirements
   
31.04   Filing of candidacy
   
31.05   Filling vacancies
   
31.06   Selection of Council President
   
31.07   Quorum
   
31.08   When majority vote required
   
31.09   When two-thirds vote required
   
31.10   City Clerk-Treasurer authorized to break ties
   
31.11   When ordinance takes effect
   
31.12   Jurisdiction to the Board of Public Works
Statutory reference:
   City legislative body, see I.C. 36-4-2-1 et seq.
§ 31.01 DESIGNATION OF CITY LEGISLATIVE BODY.
   The legislative body of the city shall be known as the City Council and
shall consist of five members to be elected as follows:
   (A)   Four shall reside in districts as designated in §
36.01 of this code of ordinances and shall be elected at-large; and
   (B)   One member shall be elected at-large.
(Prior Code, § 2-31) (Ord. 01-12, passed 10-22-2001)
Statutory reference:
   City elections, see I.C. 3-10-6, 3-10-7, 36-4-2-5
§ 31.02 TERMS OF COUNCIL MEMBERS; TERM LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The four district Council members shall be elected for a term of
four years in the municipal election.
      (2)   The one at-large member shall be elected for a four-year term in
the general election.
      (3)   Each term of office shall begin at noon on January 1 following the
election and shall continue until a successor is elected and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 2-32)
   (B)   Effective with the terms of the Common Council members that commence
in January 2024, an individual shall not be eligible for election as a Council
member for more than two consecutive four-year terms. Service as a Council
member prior to the terms that commence in January 2024 shall not be considered
in applying the term limitations of this section. Service of any other partial
term subsequent to January 2024 shall not be considered in applying the term
limit provisions of this section.
(Ord. 01-12, passed 10-22-2001; Ord. 22-50, passed 11-28-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Terms of members of legislative body, see I.C. 36-4-2-3
§ 31.03 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   To be eligible to run for office as a district Council member, a
person must be a resident of the district he or she seeks to represent, be a
citizen of the United States, and be of legal voting age. A district Council
member who moves from his or her residence in his or her respective district of
election to another district shall vacate his or her seat.
   (B)   To be eligible to run for office of a Council member at-large, a
person must be a resident within the corporate limits of the city, be a citizen
of the United States, and be of legal voting age.
   (C)   Any Council member who moves his or her place of residence outside the
corporate limits of the city vacates his or her seat on the City Council and
shall be replaced.
(Prior Code, § 2-33)
Statutory reference:
   Residence requirements of members of legislative body, see I.C. 3-8-1-29,
36-4-2-6
§ 31.04 FILING OF CANDIDACY.
   Any person who desires to be nominated at a city convention for the office
of City Council member must file a declaration of candidacy with the Circuit
Court Clerk indicating whether they are seeking to run as a district Council
member or a Council member at-large. The declaration must be sworn before a
notary public or other person authorized to administer oaths.
(Prior Code, § 2-34)
Statutory reference:
   City conventions, see I.C. 3-8-5
   Declaration of candidacy, see I.C. 3-8-2-4
§ 31.05 FILLING VACANCIES.
   Any vacancy which occurs on the City Council shall be filled in accordance
with the provisions of I.C. 3-13-9.
(Prior Code, § 2-35) (Ord. 94-18, passed 11-14-1994)
§ 31.06 SELECTION OF COUNCIL PRESIDENT.
   The City Council shall select one of its members to be its President for a
definite term, which may not exceed his or her term of office as a member of
the legislative body.
(Prior Code, § 2-36)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 36-4-2-7
§ 31.07 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the City Council constitutes a
quorum.
(Prior Code, § 2-37)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 36-4-2-9.2
§ 31.08 WHEN MAJORITY VOTE REQUIRED.
   A majority vote of the City Council is required to pass an ordinance, unless
a greater vote is required by statute. A majority vote means at least a
majority vote of all the elected members.
(Prior Code, § 2-38)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 36-4-2-9.6
§ 31.09 WHEN TWO-THIRDS VOTE REQUIRED.
   (A)   A two-thirds vote of all the elected members, after unanimous consent
of the members present to consider the ordinance, is required to pass an
ordinance of the Council on the same day or at the same meeting at which it is
introduced.
   (B)   Division (A) above does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A zoning ordinance or amendment to a zoning ordinance adopted under
I.C. 36-7; and
      (2)   An ordinance to increase the number of Council members adopted
under I.C. 36-4-2-4.2, unless the ordinance also establishes new Council
districts.
(Prior Code, § 2-39)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 36-4-2-9.8
§ 31.10 CITY CLERK-TREASURER AUTHORIZED TO BREAK TIES.
   The City Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the City Council. Whenever the City
Council has an even number of members for any reason, the Clerk-Treasurer is an
ex officio member for the purpose of casting the deciding vote to break a tie.
(Prior Code, § 2-40)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 36-4-6-8(b)
§ 31.11 WHEN ORDINANCE TAKES EFFECT.
   An ordinance, order or resolution passed by the City Council becomes
effective when signed by the President of the Council unless the ordinance,
order or resolution by its own terms establishes the date upon which it takes
effect. If required by statute, an adopted ordinance, order or resolution must
be promulgated or published before it takes effect.
(Prior Code, § 2-41)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 36-4-2-10
§ 31.12 JURISDICTION TO THE BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   (1)   Certain ordinances adopted by the city have provisions within to
allow for appeals to the City Council in the case of matters within the
jurisdiction of the Board of Public Works. These ordinances include, but are
not limited to, appeals from fines related to illegal sanitary sewer discharges
and discharges into the stormwater system.
      (2)   The creation of BPW allows for a more efficient and effective
management of the issues related to the Board of Public Works and as such,
should and is now declared to be the proper entity to hear reviews and appeals
related to issues from the Board of Public Works as provided by ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   Certain issues are presented to the Council such as appeals,
reviews and other relief many of which are more appropriate for the
jurisdiction of the BPW. These matters include but are not limited to:
         (a)   Appeals from fines related to illegal sanitary sewer discharges
and discharges into the stormwater sewer system;
         (b)   Requests for reductions of fees and fines imposed by this code
of ordinances and allowed by such for reductions;
         (c)   Any fee, fine and/or charge for utility services owned by the
city that as imposed create an unintended hardship on a citizen of the city for
which relief should be granted; and
         (d)   Initiation and management and of fees related to any
extraordinary costs associated with the stormwater fees and management of the
stormwater system, including but not limited to repairs and special fees for
areas creating an increased burden on the system.
      (2)   The BPW allows for a more efficient and effective management of the
issues related to the above and as such, should and is now declared to be the
proper entity to hear appeals and reviews outlined above and are hereby granted
the authority to act in the best interests of the city and its citizens. The
Director of Public Works is also authorized to present to the BPW those issues
that are appropriate for relief and to prepare policies and procedures in
furtherance of this division (B).
      (3)   No charge, fee or potential fine or charge filed in the Noblesville
City Court for resolution shall be eligible for relief under this division (B).
(Prior Code, § 2-42) (Ord. 10-12, passed 6-14-2010; Ord. 13-07, passed 2-11-
2013)
CHAPTER 32: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Compensation
   
32.01   Elected officials
   
32.02   Other officials and employees
   
32.03   Proration of salary for City Council members and Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.04   Payment of costs related to employment
   
32.05   Use of personal cell phones by employees
   
32.06   Classification and compensatory time
Personnel Policy, Procedures and Benefits
   
32.20   Adoption of personnel manual
   
32.21   Scope of manual
   
32.22   Police and fire personnel
   
32.23   Applicability of policy generally
   
32.24   Amendment, repeal of policies
City Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.35   Designation of office
   
32.36   Term of office; term limits
   
32.37   Election
   
32.38   Powers and duties
Deputy Mayor
   
32.50   Designation of office
   
32.51   Powers and duties
Mayor
   
32.65   Term limits
Statutory reference:
   City Clerk-Treasurer, see I.C. 36-4-6
   Compensation of city officers and employees, see I.C. 36-4-3-2
COMPENSATION
§ 32.01 ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   The annual salary of the City Council and Clerk-Treasurer shall be
established annually by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2-101)
§ 32.02 OTHER OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The City Council shall provide reasonable compensation for the city officers
and employees, such compensation to be established annually by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2-102)
§ 32.03 PRORATION OF SALARY FOR CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS AND CLERK- TREASURER.
   If there is a vacancy in the office of Clerk-Treasurer or on the City
Council, the annual salary as established in the salary ordinances for the
Clerk-Treasurer or City Council member shall be prorated through the end of the
month in which the vacancy occurs, and the successor to the officeholder shall
be eligible to receive the balance of the established annual salary prorated to
the end of the calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 2-103) (Ord. 94-18, passed 11-14-1994)
§ 32.04 PAYMENT OF COSTS RELATED TO EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   As of the effective date of the ordinance (Ord. 02-19) from which this
section derives (June 10, 2002), the City Council shall have the authority to
dispense funds to persons seeking employment with the city and those persons
currently employed by the city.
   (B)   These expenses shall include, but not be limited to, temporary living
expenses, mileage, household goods moving expenses, fuel and other items
defined by the Council at time of negotiations for employment and retention of
employment.
(Prior Code, § 50-1) (Ord. 02-19, passed 6-10-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Public employees’ retirement fund, see I.C. 5-10.3-1 et seq.
§ 32.05 USE OF PERSONAL CELL PHONES BY EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The city shall not be liable for the cell phone expenditures by city
officials, employees or agents unless the Council specifically ratifies such
expenditures. The city shall not be liable for expenses on personal cell phone
accounts absent such ratification.
   (B)   Any city officials, employees or agents that require use of a cell
phone shall have one issued by the city. The City Manager and department heads
shall issue a cell phone to employees only if the cell phone is important to
the duties of the employees. The City Council shall authorize the City Manager
to issue cell phones to other agents or to members of the City Council if use
of a cell phone is deemed necessary to carry out the duties of the office, job
or assignments.
   (C)   Use of any cell phone issued by the city shall be limited to city
business. This requirement shall also be incorporated into the Employee
Handbook.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 2-11-2003)
§ 32.06 CLASSIFICATION AND COMPENSATORY TIME.
   (A)   Position classifications. The city hereby classifies the job positions
held by the city’s employees as either exempt or non-exempt for the purposes of
compliance with the FLSA. The classification for each job position within the
city is contained on the attached Exhibit A, which is adopted by reference.
   (B)   Non-exempt employees; compensatory time off.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         CIVILIAN EMPLOYEE. All city employees not employed as professional
police employees or professional fire employees.
         PROFESSIONAL FIRE EMPLOYEE. Professional fire personnel.
         PROFESSIONAL POLICE EMPLOYEE. Professional police personnel.
      (2)   Non-exempt civilian employees: standard workweek and overtime.
         (a)   The standard workweek for full-time non-exempt civilian
employees is either 37.5 or 40 hours.
         (b)   Any hours worked in excess of the non-exempt civilian employee’s
regularly scheduled hours per workweek must have the prior approval of the
employee’s department head or the department head’s designee. Any hours worked
by a non-exempt civilian employee in excess of his or her regularly scheduled
hours for the workweek must fall within the department’s budgetary limitations,
except in the case of an emergency.
         (c)   Non-exempt civilian employees are required to report all hours
worked on a personal time sheet that is signed by the employee’s department
head or the department head’s designee. Failure to accurately report hours
worked shall result in employee discipline.
         (d)   Non-exempt civilian employees shall be entitled to compensation
at their regular hourly rate for each hour (of portion of an hour) worked in
excess of 37.5, but less than or equal to 40 hours in any workweek.
         (e)   If non-exempt civilian employees are required to perform work
for more than 40 hours in a workweek, those employees shall be entitled to
overtime compensation at the rate of one and one- half times their regular
hourly rate or to compensatory time off as outlined in division (B)(3) below
for any hour (or portion of an hour) worked in excess of 40.
      (3)   Non-exempt civilian employees: compensatory time off.
         (a)   As used within this division (B)(3), DEPARTMENT HEAD shall refer
to the department head for the applicable non-exempt civilian employee or the
department head’s designee.
         (b)   When a non-exempt civilian employee works more than 40 hours in
a workweek, the department head, at his or her discretion, may substitute
compensatory time off for overtime pay. In order to substitute compensatory
time off for overtime pay, however, the department head must have an
understanding with the non-exempt civilian employee that the substitution of
compensatory time off may be made for overtime compensation. This understanding
shall exist prior to the non-exempt civilian employee’s performance of the
overtime work.
         (c)   Where compensatory time off is substituted for overtime pay, the
non-exempt civilian employee shall be entitled to compensatory time off at the
rate of one and one-half hours of compensatory time off for each hour worked in
excess of 40 in a workweek.
         (d)   Where a non-exempt civilian employee earns compensatory time
off, the employee shall be allowed to accrue a compensatory time off balance up
to 40 hours. Once a non-exempt civilian employee has accrued a balance of 40
hours of compensatory time off, the employee shall not accrue any additional
compensatory time off until the non-exempt civilian employee’s compensatory
time off balance is reduced below 40 hours.
         (e)   Where a non-exempt civilian employee has accrued a balance of 40
hours of compensatory time off, the employee will be paid overtime for any
hours worked in excess of 40 in a workweek until such accrued balance is
reduced below 40 hours.
         (f)   Non-exempt civilian employees must submit requests to use earned
compensatory time off to their department head. Department heads shall allow
non-exempt civilian employees to use accrued compensatory time off within a
reasonable period of time after the employee has made such a request, subject
to the department head’s discretion as to the needs of the department and in a
manner that will not unduly disrupt the operations of the department.
         (g)   Under no circumstances may a non-exempt civilian employee take
compensatory time off until the employee has earned compensatory time off.
         (h)   In the city’s discretion, the city may elect to pay out accrued
but unused compensatory time off at any point during the calendar year, but in
all cases employee accrued but unused compensatory time off balances shall be
paid out in full by the end of the calendar year or upon separation from
employment.
      (4)   Non-exempt professional police employees: standard work period and
overtime.
         (a)   The standard work period for full-time non-exempt professional
police employees is 14 days.
         (b)   Any hours worked in excess of 85.5 hours per work period must
have the prior approval of the Police Chief, or the Police Chief’s designee.
Any hours worked by a non-exempt professional police employee in excess of 85.5
must fall within the department’s budgetary limitations, except in the case of
an emergency.
         (c)   Non-exempt professional police employees are required to report
all hours worked on a personal time sheet that is signed by the Police Chief or
the Police Chief’s designee. Failure to accurately report employee hours worked
shall result in employee discipline.
         (d)   If non-exempt professional police employees are required to
perform work for more than 85.5 hours in a work period, those employees shall
be entitled to overtime compensation at the rate of one and one-half times
their regular hourly rate or to compensatory time off as outlined in division
(B)(5) below for any hour (or portion of an hour) worked in excess of 85.5.
      (5)   Non-exempt professional police employees: compensatory time off.
         (a)   As used within this division (B)(5), POLICE CHIEF shall refer to
the Police Chief for the city or the Police Chief’s designee.
         (b)   When a non-exempt professional police employee works more than
85.5 hours in a given work period, the Police Chief, at his or her discretion,
may substitute compensatory time off for overtime pay. In order to substitute
compensatory time off for overtime pay, however, the Police Chief must have an
understanding with the non-exempt professional police employees, or their
representative, that the substitution of compensatory time off may be made for
overtime compensation. This understanding shall exist prior to the non-exempt
professional police employee’s performance of the overtime work.
         (c)   Where compensatory time off is substituted for overtime pay, the
non-exempt professional police employee shall be entitled to compensatory time
off at the rate of one and one-half hours of compensatory time off for each
hour worked in excess of 85.5 in a work period.
         (d)   Where a non-exempt professional police employee earns
compensatory time off, the employee shall be allowed to accrue a compensatory
time off balance up to 40 hours. Once a non-exempt professional police employee
has accrued a balance of 40 hours of compensatory time off, the employee shall
not accrue any additional compensatory time off until the non-exempt
professional police employee’s compensatory time off balance is reduced below
40 hours.
         (e)   Where a non-exempt professional police employee has accrued a
balance of 40 hours of compensatory time off, the employee will be paid
overtime for any hours worked in excess of 85.5 in a work period until such
accrued balance is reduced below 40 hours.
         (f)   Non-exempt professional police employees must submit requests to
use earned compensatory time off to the Police Chief. The Police Chief shall
allow non-exempt professional police employees to use accrued compensatory time
off within a reasonable period of time after the employee has made such a
request, subject to the Police Chief’s discretion as to the needs of the
Department and in a manner that will not unduly disrupt the operations of the
Department.
         (g)   Under no circumstances may a non-exempt professional police
employee take compensatory time off until the employee has earned compensatory
time off.
         (h)   In the city’s discretion, the city may elect to pay out accrued
but unused compensatory time off at any point during the calendar year, but in
all cases employee accrued but unused compensatory time off balances shall be
paid out in full by the end of the calendar year or upon separation from
employment.
      (6)   Non-exempt professional fire employees: standard work period and
overtime.
         (a)   The standard work period for full-time non-exempt professional
fire employees is 28 days.
         (b)   Any hours worked in excess of 212 hours per work period must
have the prior approval of the Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s designee. Any
hours worked by a non-exempt professional fire employee in excess of 212 must
fall within the Department’s budgetary limitations, except in the case of an
emergency.
         (c)   Non-exempt professional fire employees are required to report
all hours worked on a personal time sheet that is signed by the Fire Chief or
the Fire Chief’s designee. Failure to accurately report employee hours worked
shall result in employee discipline.
         (d)   If non-exempt professional fire employees are required to
perform work for more than 212 hours in a work period, those employees shall be
entitled to overtime compensation at the rate of one and one-half times their
regular hourly rate or to compensatory time off as outlined in division (B)(7)
below for any hour (or portion of an hour) worked in excess of 212.
      (7)   Non-exempt professional fire employees: compensatory time off.
         (a)   As used within this division (B)(7), FIRE CHIEF shall refer to
the Fire Chief for the city or the Fire Chief’s designee.
         (b)   When a non-exempt professional fire employee works more than 212
hours in a given work period, the Fire Chief, at his or her discretion, may
substitute compensatory time off for overtime pay. In order to substitute
compensatory time off for overtime pay, however, the Fire Chief must have an
understanding with the non-exempt professional fire employees, or their
representative, that the substitution of compensatory time off may be made for
overtime compensation. This understanding shall exist prior to the non-exempt
professional fire employee’s performance of the overtime work.
         (c)   Where compensatory time off is substituted for overtime pay, the
non-exempt professional fire employee shall be entitled to earn compensatory
time off at the rate of one and one-half hours of compensatory time off for
each hour worked in excess of 212 in a work period.
         (d)   Where a non-exempt professional fire employee earns compensatory
time off, the employee shall be allowed to accrue a compensatory time off
balance up to 40 hours. Once a non-exempt professional fire employee has
accrued a balance of 40 hours of compensatory time off, the employee shall not
accrue any additional compensatory time off until the non-exempt professional
fire employee’s compensatory time off balance is reduced below 40 hours.
         (e)   Where a non-exempt professional fire employee has accrued a
balance of 40 hours of compensatory time off, the employee must be paid
overtime for any hours worked in excess of 212 in a work period.
         (f)   Non-exempt professional fire employees must submit requests to
use earned compensatory time off to the Fire Chief. The Fire Chief shall allow
non-exempt Fire Department employees to use accrued compensatory time off
within a reasonable period of time after the employee has made such a request,
subject to the Fire Chief’s discretion as to the needs of the Department and in
a manner that will not unduly disrupt the operations of the Department.
         (g)   Under no circumstances may a non-exempt professional fire
employee take compensatory time off until the employee has earned compensatory
time off.
         (h)   In the city’s discretion, the city may elect to pay out accrued
but unused compensatory time off at any point during the calendar year, but in
all cases employee accrued but unused compensatory time off balances shall be
paid out in full by the end of the calendar year or upon separation from
employment.
   (C)   Exempt employees: flex time off.
      (1)   Exempt employees: standard workweek.
         (a)   Exempt employees are required to work the numbers of hours
necessary to complete their assigned tasks in any given workweek.
         (b)   Exempt employees are not entitled to overtime pay.
         (c)   Exempt employees, however, shall be entitled to earn flex time
off as set forth in division (C)(2) below.
      (2)   Exempt employees: flex time off.
         (a)   As used within this division (C)(2), DEPARTMENT HEAD shall refer
to the applicable department head for the department in which the exempt
employee is employed. In the case of the Chief Administrative Officer and/or
Deputy Mayor, department head shall mean the President of the City Council and/
or Mayor.
         (b)   When an exempt employee works more than 40 hours in a given
workweek, the department head, at his or her discretion, may grant the exempt
employee flex time off.
         (c)   Where flex time off is granted, the exempt employee shall earn
flex time off at the rate of one hour of flex time off for each hour worked in
excess of 40 in a workweek.
         (d)   Where an exempt employee earns flex time off, the employee shall
be allowed to accrue a flex time off balance up to 24 hours. Once an exempt
employee has accrued a balance of 24 hours of flex time off, the employee shall
not accrue any additional flex time off until the exempt employee’s flex time
off balance is reduced below 24 hours.
         (e)   Exempt employees must submit requests to use accrued flex time
off to their department heads. The department heads shall allow exempt
employees to use accrued flex time off within a reasonable period of time after
the employee has made such a request, subject to the department head’s
discretion as to the needs of the department and in a manner that will not
unduly disrupt the operations of the department.
         (f)   Absent extraordinary circumstances, department heads may not
allow exempt employees to use more than eight hours of accrued flex time off in
any workweek.
         (g)   Under no circumstances shall an exempt employee be permitted to
take flex time off until the employee has earned flex time off.
         (h)   Accrued flex time off hours may be carried forward from calendar
year to calendar year.
         (i)   No payments shall be made for accrued flex time off, and no
payment shall be made in lieu of taking accrued flex time off. Under no
circumstances will accrued but unused flex time off be paid out upon separation
from employment.
(Ord. 07-33, passed 12-17-2007)
PERSONNEL POLICY, PROCEDURES AND BENEFITS
§ 32.20 ADOPTION OF PERSONNEL MANUAL.
   There is hereby adopted a city personnel policy and procedures and benefits
manual in the form attached to Ordinance 19-64, made a part of this subchapter
and marked Exhibit E, which may be, from time to time, amended by ordinance of
the City Council meeting in regular or special session. Any amendment to the
personnel policy and procedures and benefits manual shall be by a vote of a
majority of the City Council pursuant to written resolution which may
thereafter be incorporated into the written personnel policy and procedures and
benefits manual following its adoption.
(Prior Code, § 50-31) (Ord. 95-1, passed 1-14-1995; Ord. 19-64, passed 12-19-
2019)
§ 32.21 SCOPE OF MANUAL.
   The personnel policy and procedures and benefits manual adopted pursuant to
this subchapter shall be the exclusive statement of personnel policy and
procedures and benefits of the city applying to its civilian non-merit
employees.
(Prior Code, § 50-32) (Ord. 95-1, passed 1-14-1995)
§ 32.22 POLICE AND FIRE PERSONNEL.
   Any and all statutory merit employees of the city, consisting of police and
fire personnel, shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the city
personnel policy and procedures and benefits manual only to the extent that the
provisions are not in conflict with the statutes of the state, federal law or
specific policies and procedures applicable to fire and police personnel which
have been adopted by the City Council of which such shall remain in full force
and effect notwithstanding the adoption of the city personnel policy and
procedures and benefits manual, as amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 50-33) (Ord. 95-1, passed 1-14-1995)
§ 32.23 APPLICABILITY OF POLICY GENERALLY.
   City policy applies to employees of the city, elected officials and members
of boards and commissions of the city, unless otherwise provided by applicable
law.
(Prior Code, § 50-34) (Ord. 95-1, passed 1-14-1995)
§ 32.24 AMENDMENT, REPEAL OF POLICIES.
   This subchapter and the policies and procedures and benefits described in
the manual, shall remain in effect until amended or repealed by the City
Council. All amendments to the policies, procedures and benefits described in
the manual shall be in writing, approved by the City Council and incorporated
into the manual.
(Prior Code, § 50-35) (Ord. 95-1, passed 1-14-1995)
CITY CLERK-TREASURER
§ 32.35 DESIGNATION OF OFFICE.
   The City Clerk and the City Fiscal Officer shall be the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2-136)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 36-4-6-2
§ 32.36 TERM OF OFFICE; TERM LIMITS.
   (A)   The term of office of the Clerk-Treasurer is four years, beginning at
noon on January 1 after his or her election and continuing until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 2-137)
   (B)   Effective with the terms of the City Clerk-Treasurer that commences in
January 2024, an individual shall not be eligible for election as City Clerk-
Treasurer for more than three consecutive four-year terms. Service as City
Clerk-Treasurer prior to the terms that commence in January 2024 shall not be
considered in applying the term limitations of this section. Service of any
other partial term subsequent to January 2024 shall not be considered in
applying the term limitation provisions of this section.
(Ord. 22-50, passed 11-28-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 36-4-6-3
§ 32.37 ELECTION.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected by the voters of the whole city.
(Prior Code, § 2-138)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 36-4-6-4
§ 32.38 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. The Clerk-Treasurer is empowered to hire two employees who
will serve as deputies and assist in the performance of his or her duties. The
Clerk-Treasurer shall exercise the powers and duties enumerated in I.C. 36-4-6-
6 and such other powers and duties as may from time to time be authorized.
   (B)   Funds.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to create funds as is
necessary for the efficient and orderly maintenance of the accounts of the
city.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer may also delete any and all funds as also
necessary for the efficient and orderly maintenance of the accounts of the
city.
      (3)   All changes to the number of funds within the city accounts shall
be submitted to the Council. Any funds deleted shall also require specific
information as to the disposition of monies within the deleted funds.
(Prior Code, § 2-139) (Ord. 11-07, passed 5-9-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Deputies and employees, see I.C. 36-4-6-7
DEPUTY MAYOR
§ 32.50 DESIGNATION OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-4-9-7, the position of Deputy Mayor is hereby
established in the city.
   (B)   The Deputy Mayor shall be the Mayor’s deputy, and shall be appointed
by and serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
   (C)   The position of Deputy Mayor may be held by a current city employee.
The Deputy Mayor must be a resident of Westfield-Washington Township.
(Ord. 24-07, passed 1-29-2024)
§ 32.51 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Deputy Mayor may exercise all powers granted to the Deputy Mayor by
state law, and may exercise all powers granted to the Mayor by state law when
the Mayor is unavailable or not able to exercise his or her duties.
(Ord. 24-07, passed 1-29-2024)
MAYOR
§ 32.65 TERM LIMITS.
   (A)   Effective with the term of the Mayor that commences in January 2024,
an individual shall not be eligible for election as Mayor for more than two
consecutive four-year terms.
   (B)   Service as Mayor prior to the terms that commence in January 2024
shall not be considered in applying the term limitations of this section.
Service of any other partial term subsequent to January 2024 shall not be
considered in applying the term limit provisions of this section.
(Ord. 22-50, passed 11-28-2022)
CHAPTER 33: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
33.001   Established
   
33.002   Powers and duties
   
33.003   Termination or transfer of functions
   
33.004   Appointment of department heads
   
33.005   Appointment procedures for the Advisory Plan Commission and Board of
Zoning Appeals
Emergency Management Organization
   
33.020   Established
   
33.021   Director/coordinator
   
33.022   Receipt, disbursement of funds
   
33.023   Standard operating procedures
Community Development
   
33.035   Department to review and revise fees
Economic Development Commission
   
33.050   Establishment
   
33.051   Members
   
33.052   Terms of Commissioners
   
33.053   Powers and duties
   
33.054   Compensation of Commission members
   
33.055   Legal counsel restriction
   
33.056   Economic Development Fund
Redevelopment Commission
   
33.070   Establishment
   
33.071   Redevelopment taxing district established
   
33.072   Membership
   
33.073   Term of office
Redevelopment Authority
   
33.085   Established
Central Regional Development Authority
   
33.100   Participation in
Internal Control Department
   
33.115   Established
   
33.116   Appointment
Local Historic Preservation Commission
   
33.130   Purpose
   
33.131   Definitions
   
33.132   Establishment and organization
   
33.133   Powers and duties
   
33.134   Historic districts and guidelines
   
33.135   Interim protection
   
33.136   Certificates of appropriateness
   
33.137   Staff approvals
   
33.138   Visual compatibility
   
33.139   Preservation of historical and architectural character upon alteration
or relocation mandated
   
33.140   Maintenance
   
33.141   Relationship with zoning districts
   
33.142   Removal of historic district designation
   
33.143   Enforcement by interested parties
   
33.144   Enforcement and judicial review
Westfield Mayor’s Youth Council
   
33.150   Established
   
33.151   Mission statement
   
33.152   Members
   
33.153   Constitution
   
33.154   Bylaws
 
   
33.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.001 ESTABLISHED.
   The following departments are hereby established in the city:
   (A)   City Marshal Department;
   (B)   Utility Department;
   (C)   Volunteer Fire Department; and
   (D)   Community Development Department.
(Prior Code, § 2-171)
Statutory reference:
   Local planning and zoning, see I.C. 36-7-4
§ 33.002 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The departments established by §
33.001 shall perform the administrative functions assigned to them by statute
and ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2-172)
§ 33.003 TERMINATION OR TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS.
   The City Council may by ordinance terminate the departments established by §
33.001 or transfer to or from those departments any powers, duties, functions
or obligations.
(Prior Code, § 2-173)
§ 33.004 APPOINTMENT OF DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   The City Council shall appoint the head of each department established by §
33.001; provided, however, that the appointment is subject to any statutory
council or commission established in the department.
(Prior Code, § 2-174)
§ 33.005 APPOINTMENT PROCEDURES FOR THE ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION AND BOARD OF
ZONING APPEALS.
   Effective January 1, 2006 it shall be the practice of the city that members
of the Council that are appointed to serve on the Commission shall not be
eligible for the position of President or Vice President of the Commission.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 12-9-2005; Ord. 21-12, passed 2-22-2021)
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION
§ 33.020 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established within the city an emergency management
organization to be operated in conformity with the Emergency Management and
Disaster Law (I.C. 10-14-3).
   (B)   This organization will be operated in conjunction with the state
emergency management agency.
(Prior Code, § 22-31)
Statutory reference:
   Emergency management, see I.C. 10-14-3, 10-8-1 et seq.
   Emergency public work contracts, see I.C. 36-1-12-9
   Emergency purchases, see I.C. 36-1-9-11, 36-1-9-16
§ 33.021 DIRECTOR/COORDINATOR.
   A director/coordinator will be appointed for the emergency management
organization to serve during the pleasure of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 22-32)
§ 33.022 RECEIPT, DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer will be responsible for the receipt and disbursement of
all emergency management funds, where funds are provided for emergency
management purposes.
(Prior Code, § 22-33)
§ 33.023 STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Standard operating procedures for the emergency management
organization are hereby adopted by reference and are incorporated as fully as
if printed in full.
   (B)   Two copies are available for public inspection during normal office
hours of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 22-34)
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
§ 33.035 DEPARTMENT TO REVIEW AND REVISE FEES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the Community Development
Department to review and revise the schedule of all fees associated with the
Department to assure that the city is meeting its responsibility to maintain
adequate fee schedules.
      (2)   These fees shall include but not be limited to:
         (a)   Building permit fees;
         (b)   Improvement location permit fees;
         (c)   Inspection fees;
         (d)   Board of Zoning Appeal fees; and
         (e)   Plan Commission fees.
   (B)   The Community Development Department shall review these fees annually
to assure that the fees are covering all expenses incurred by the city and that
the fees are commensurate with other zoning jurisdiction throughout the county.
   (C)   If a change is required it shall be noted on the next regularly
scheduled City Council meeting for a voice vote to ratify the change. The
amended fee schedule will be in effect after proper notice pursuant to I.C. 5-
3-1.
(Prior Code, § 26-1) (Ord. 01-01, passed 4-9-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Planning and development, see I.C. 36-7-1-1 et seq.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 33.050 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Westfield Economic Development Commission is hereby established.
(Prior Code, § 26-96)
Statutory reference:
   Economic development, see I.C. 36-7-12
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 36-7-12-4
§ 33.051 MEMBERS.
   The Economic Development Commission shall consist of three members appointed
by the President of the City Council. One of the members shall be selected by
the President of the City Council, one shall be nominated by the County Council
and one shall be nominated by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 26-97)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 36-7-12-6(b)
§ 33.052 TERMS OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   The Economic Development Commissioners shall take office upon their
appointment, and their terms run from February 1 after their original
appointment, for a period of:
      (1)   Three years, if selected by the President of the City Council;
      (2)   Two years, if nominated by the City Council; and
      (3)   One year, if nominated by the County Council.
   (B)   At the expiration of the respective terms of each of the original
Commissioners, their respective successors shall be selected and nominated,
before the expiration of the term, in the same manner as the original
Commissioner, and each succeeding Commissioner shall serve for a term of four
years. A Commissioner shall hold over after the expiration of his or her term
until his or her successor is appointed and has qualified.
   (C)   If any person appointed shall fail to qualify within ten days after
the mailing to him or her of notice of his or her appointment, or if any member
after qualifying shall die, resign or vacate the office, or be removed, a new
member shall be chosen and appointed to fill the vacancy in the same manner as
provided for the member in respect to whom such vacancy occurs and the member
so chosen and appointed shall serve for the remainder of the vacated term. No
person shall be appointed as a Commissioner who is not either a resident of the
county, employed in the city or owner of a business in the city. If any
Commissioner shall cease to qualify in one of the above categories, his or her
appointment on the Council shall thereby terminate and his or her office shall
become vacant.
(Prior Code, § 26-98)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 36-7-12-6(c)
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 36-7-12-9(b)
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 36-7-12-10(b)
§ 33.053 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Economic Development Commission shall exercise the powers granted by
I.C. 36-7-12 and shall function pursuant to the requirements and procedures set
out therein.
(Prior Code, § 26-99)
§ 33.054 COMPENSATION OF COMMISSION MEMBERS.
   The members of the Economic Development Commission shall be eligible to
receive a per diem of $50, within purview of Council to modify if desired, for
each day that they attend a Commission meeting. This per diem shall be paid
from any revenues received by the Commission for its services.
(Prior Code, § 26-100) (Ord. 94-17, passed 11-14-1994)
§ 33.055 LEGAL COUNSEL RESTRICTION.
   Any attorney, or the firm in which the attorney is affiliated, that
represents the Economic Development Commission may not also represent an
applicant for a bond issue from the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 26-101) (Ord. 94-17, passed 11-14-1994)
State law reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 36-7-12-27.5
§ 33.056 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established a Westfield Economic
Development Fund. All fees received by developers and others shall be deposited
into this Fund.
   (B)   Limitation on fees charged. Fees charged to developers and others by
the Commission shall not exceed 1% of any bond issue up to a maximum of
$10,000, within purview of Council to modify if desired.
   (C)   Use of Fund. All funds received by the Economic Development Commission
from fees shall be expended in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-12.
(Prior Code, § 26-102) (Ord. 94-17, passed 11-14-1994)
REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 33.070 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The City Council hereby establishes the Redevelopment Commission for
the city.
   (B)   The Commission will be controlled by a board of five members known as
the City of Westfield Redevelopment Commission.
(Prior Code, § 26-131) (Ord. 03-36, passed 10-13-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Establishment of department of redevelopment, see I.C. 36-7-14-3(a)
§ 33.071 REDEVELOPMENT TAXING DISTRICT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14 (the Act), all of the territory within the
corporate boundaries of the city will be a taxing district to be known as the
Redevelopment District of the city for the purpose of levying and collecting
special benefit taxes for redevelopment purposes as provided in the Act.
   (B)   The City Council finds and determines that all of the taxable property
within this special taxing district will be considered to be benefitted by the
redevelopment projects carried out under the Act to the extent of the special
taxes levied under the Act.
(Prior Code, § 26-132) (Ord. 03-36, passed 10-13-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 36-7-14-3(b), (c)
§ 33.072 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint two members of the Redevelopment
Commission; the city executive (City Council President) shall appoint three
members of the Development Commission as provided by the Act.
   (B)   Each member appointed shall be at least 18 years of age and a resident
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 26-133) (Ord. 03-36, passed 10-13-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of redevelopment commissioners, see I.C. 36-7-14-6.1
§ 33.073 TERM OF OFFICE.
   Each Redevelopment Commissioner shall serve a term of office as described
and prescribed by I.C. 36-7-14-7 and perform functions and duties as described
in I.C. 36-7-14-8 and I.C. 36-7-14-11.
(Prior Code, § 26-134) (Ord. 03-36, passed 10-13-2003)
REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 33.085 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Common Council of the city now deems it to be in the best interest
of the city and its citizens to afford a maximum opportunity for
rehabilitation, redevelopment or economic development of areas within the city
by establishing a redevelopment authority pursuant to I.C. 36-7-14.5-1 et seq.
   (B)   The Council hereby establishes the Westfield Redevelopment Authority.
(Prior Code, § 26-141) (Ord. 16-17, passed 6-27-2016)
CENTRAL REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 33.100 PARTICIPATION IN.
   (A)   The city hereby recognizes the benefits of participating in the
Central Regional Development Authority for the citizens of the city and the
surrounding areas.
   (B)   The Mayor and the city administration are hereby authorized to
negotiate and present an agreement consistent with this section, I.C. 36-7.6-2-
1 and Chapter 115, Article III of the Revised Code of Ordinances of the City of
Indianapolis for consideration by this Council.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   The Council hereby authorizes the city to become a member
of the Development Authority pursuant to the Act (I.C. 36-7.7 et seq.).
         (b)   The city shall be a member of the development authority for not
less than five years.
      (2)   The Council shall adopt the plan by separate resolution, which
resolution shall be substantially similar to the resolutions of other
participating members of the Development Authority.
      (3)   The city shall notify the Indiana Economic Development Commission
of its membership in the Development Authority.
(Prior Code, § 26-151) (Ord. 15-20, passed 6-22-2015; Ord. 22-37, passed 2-13-
2023)
INTERNAL CONTROL DEPARTMENT
§ 33.115 ESTABLISHED.
   The Internal Control Department is hereby established.
(Ord. 21-30, passed 5-24-2021)
§ 33.116 APPOINTMENT.
   The Internal Control Officer shall be appointed by the Mayor.
(Ord. 21-30, passed 5-24-2021)
LOCAL HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
§ 33.130 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Purpose of historic preservation and protection:
      (1)   To promote the educational, cultural and general welfare of the
citizens of the city and to ensure the harmonious and orderly growth and
development of the municipality;
      (2)   To maintain established residential neighborhoods in danger of
having their distinctiveness destroyed;
      (3)   To enhance property values and attract new residents;
      (4)   To ensure the viability of the traditional downtown area and to
enhance tourism within the city; and
      (5)   It is deemed essential by the city that qualities relating to its
history and harmonious outward appearance of its structures be preserved.
   (B)   These purposes are advanced through the restoration and preservation
of historic areas and buildings, the construction of compatible new buildings
where appropriate, and the maintenance and ensurance of compatibility in
regards to style, form, proportion, texture and material between historic
buildings and those of contemporary design.
   (C)   It is the intention of the city through this subchapter to preserve
and protect historic or architecturally worthy buildings, structures, sites,
monuments, streetscapes, squares and neighborhoods of the historic districts
created in accordance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 22-09, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 33.131 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words in
the present tense include the future tense. The singular number includes the
plural, and the plural, the singular. The word “shall” is always mandatory. The
word “person” includes a firm, a partnership, a limited liability company, or a
corporation, as well as an individual. Terms not defined in this section shall
have the meanings customarily assigned to them.
   ALTERATION. A material or color change in the external architectural
features of any building, structure or site within a historic district.
   CITY. The City of Westfield, Indiana.
   CLASSIFICATIONS.
      (1)   CONTRIBUTING. The “C” classification means that the property is at
least 40 years old, but does not meet the criteria for an “O” or “N”
classification. Contributing properties are important to the density or
continuity of the area’s historic fabric. Contributing properties can be listed
in the National Register only as part of a historic district.
      (2)   NON-CONTRIBUTING. Property classified as “NC” is not included in a
historic sites and structures inventory unless it is located within the
boundaries of a historic district. Such properties may be less than 50 years
old, or they may be older properties that have been altered in such a way that
they have lost their historic character, or they may be otherwise incompatible
with their historic surroundings. These properties are not eligible for listing
in the National Register.
      (3)   NOTABLE. The “N” classification means that the property does not
merit the outstanding rating, but it is still above average in its importance.
A notable structure may be eligible for the National Register.
      (4)   OUTSTANDING. The “O” classification means that the property has
sufficient historic or architectural significance such that it is listed, or is
eligible for individual listing, in the National Register of Historic Places
(the “National Register”). Outstanding resources can be of local, state or
national importance.
   COMMISSION. The Historic Preservation Commission established by this
subchapter.
   DEMOLITION. The complete or substantial removal of any building or structure
located in a historic district.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. A single building, structure, site, monument, streetscape
or square, or a concentration of buildings, structures, sites, monuments,
streetscapes, squares or neighborhoods, the boundaries of which are described
or delineated on a map approved in an ordinance adopted by the City Council.
   INTERESTED PARTY. One of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   The City Council;
      (3)   The City Plan Commission or other agency having land use planning
jurisdiction over a historic district designated by ordinance;
      (4)   A neighborhood association, whether incorporated or unincorporated,
a majority of whose members are residents of a historic district designated by
an ordinance adopted by the City Council;
      (5)   An owner or occupant owning or occupying property located in a
historic district established by an ordinance adopted by the City Council;
      (6)   Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, Inc., or any of its
successors; and
      (7)   The state historic preservation officer designated under I.C. 14-
21-1-19.
   PRESERVATION GUIDELINES. Locally developed criteria which identify design
concerns to assist property owners in maintaining the character of the historic
district or buildings during the process of rehabilitation or new construction.
   PRIMARY AREA. The principal area of historic and/or architectural
significance within a historic district as delineated on the map establishing
the boundaries of the historic district.
   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE. Work for which no certificate of appropriateness is
required.
   SECONDARY AREA. An area in a historic district as delineated on the map
establishing the boundaries of the historic district that is adjacent to a
primary area and which has a visual relationship to the primary area and could
affect the preservation of the primary area. The purpose of designating a
SECONDARY AREA is to assure its compatibility and harmony with an adjacent,
primary area.
   STREETSCAPE. Appearance from a public way, the distinguishing
characteristics of which are created by the width of the street and sidewalks,
their paving materials and color, the design of the street furniture (e.g.,
street lights, trash receptacles, benches and the like) use of plant materials
such as trees and shrubs, and the setback, mass and proportion of those
buildings which enclose the street.
   VISUAL COMPATIBILITY. Those elements of design that meet the guidelines set
out in §
33.138 of this subchapter.
(Ord. 22-09, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 33.132 ESTABLISHMENT AND ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established the Historic Preservation
Commission of the City of Westfield, Indiana (hereinafter referred to as the
“Commission”).
   (B)   Composition; appointment. The Commission shall consist of five voting
members. The voting members shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the
approval of the City Council, and shall be residents of the city who are
interested in the preservation and development of historic areas. The members
of the Commission should include professionals in the disciplines of
architectural history, planning and other disciplines related to historic
preservation, to the extent that those professionals are available in the
community. Up to four nonvoting, advisory member(s) may be appointed to the
Commission by the Mayor with approval by the City Council. Commission members
shall serve without compensation, except for reasonable expenses incurred in
the performance of their duties.
   (C)   Term. Voting members shall each serve for a term of three years;
however, the terms of original voting members shall be for one year, two years
and three years in order for the terms to be staggered. The term for nonvoting,
advisory members shall be for three years. A vacancy shall be filled within 90
days for the duration of the term.
   (D)   Commission Administrator. A City Administrator designated by the Mayor
shall serve as the ex officio Administrator of the Commission. The
Administrator shall provide staff assistance to the Commission, act as the
Commission’s secretary, and issue certificates of appropriateness as directed
by the Commission.
   (E)   Officers. The Commission shall elect from its membership a
Chairperson, a Vice Chairperson, and a Treasurer, who shall serve for one year
and who may be reelected. The Commission Administrator shall serve as the
Commission’s secretary.
   (F)   Rules. The Commission shall adopt rules consistent with this
subchapter for the transaction of its business. The rules must include the time
and place of regular meetings and a procedure for the calling of special
meetings. All rules shall first be presented to the Council and shall not be
effective until approved by Council.
   (G)   Meetings. All Commission meetings must be open to the public and a
public record must be kept of the Commission’s resolutions, proceedings and
actions. The Commission shall hold tegular meetings, at least monthly, except
when it has no business pending. Special meetings may be called in a manner
determined by the Commission and its rules.
(Ord. 22-09, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 33.133 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Commission shall be concerned with those elements of development,
redevelopment, rehabilitation and preservation that affect visual quality in a
historic district. The Commission may not consider details of design, interior
arrangements or building features, if those details, arrangements or features
are not subject to public view, and may not make any requirement except for the
purpose of preventing development, alteration or demolition in a historic
district obviously incongruous with the historic district.
   (B)   The Commission shall conduct a survey to identify historic buildings,
structures and sites located within the city that have previously been
classified historic or listed on the National Register. Based on its survey,
the Commission shall submit to the City Council a map describing the boundaries
of a historic district or historic districts containing sites on the National
Register. A district may be limited to the boundaries of a property containing
a single building, structure or site. The map may divide a district into
primary and secondary areas.
   (C)   The Commission shall also classify and designate on the map all
buildings, structures and sites within each historic district described on the
map. Buildings, structures and sites shall be classified as historic or non-
historic in the manner set forth in divisions (D) and (E) below. Provided
however no building structure or site shall be classified as historic unless it
is contained on a site on the National Register or the property owner agrees to
the designation in writing.
   (D)   Buildings, structures and sites classified as historic must possess
identified historic or architectural merit of a degree warranting their
preservation. They may be further classified as outstanding, notable, or
contributing (as defined in § 33.131 of this subchapter). In lieu of these
further classifications, the Commission may devise its own system of further
classification for historic buildings, structures and sites.
   (E)   Non-historic buildings and structures are those not classified on the
map as historic under division (B) above.
   (F)   The Commission may conduct additional surveys, and draw and submit
additional maps for approval of the City Council, as the Commission considers
appropriate.
   (G)   The Commission may adopt preservation guidelines for architectural
review. If adopted, preservation guidelines shall be published and made readily
accessible to the general public.
   (H)   The Commission has the authority to receive funds in order to promote
its stated purposes.
   (I)   The Commission shall promote public interest in historic preservation
by initiating and carrying on a public relations and community education
program.
   (J)   The Commission has the authority to:
      (1)   Acquire by purchase, gift, grant, bequest, devise or lease any real
or personal property, including easements, that is appropriate for carrying out
the purposes of the Commission;
      (2)   Hold title to real and personal property;
      (3)   Sell, lease, rent or otherwise dispose of real and personal
property at a public or private sale on the terms and conditions that the
Commission considers best; and
      (4)   Establish procedures that the Commission must follow in acquiring
and disposing of property.
   (K)   Each official of the city who has responsibility for building
inspection, building permits, planning, or zoning shall provide any technical,
administrative or clerical assistance requested by the Commission. The attorney
for the city is the attorney for the Commission. However, the Commission may
employ other legal counsel authorized to practice law in this state if it
considers it necessary or desirable.
(Ord. 22-09, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 33.134 HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND GUIDELINES.
   (A)   City Council approval of maps of historic districts. Before a historic
district is established and the building classifications take effect, the map
described in §
33.133(B) of this subchapter, setting forth the historic district boundaries
and building classifications, must be submitted by the Commission to, and
approved in an ordinance by, the City Council.
   (B)   Two phases. In an ordinance approving the establishment of a historic
district, the City Council may provide that the establishment shall occur in
two phases. During the first phase, which continues for a period of three years
from the date the ordinance is adopted, a certificate of appropriateness is
required only for the following activities: the demolition of any building; the
moving of any building; and any new construction of a principal building or
accessory building or structure subject to view from a public way. At the end
of the first phase, the district becomes fully established, and, subject to
division (C) below, a certificate of appropriateness must be issued by the
Commission before a permit may be issued for or work may begin on an activity
described in §
33.136(A) of this subchapter.
   (C)   Certificates of appropriateness.
      (1)   The first phase described in division (B) above continues and the
second phase does not become effective if a majority of the property owners in
the district object to the Commission, in writing, to the requirement that
certificates of appropriateness be issued for the following activities:
         (a)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of historic
buildings by additions, reconstruction, alteration or maintenance involving
exterior color change;
         (b)   A change in walls and fences or construction of walls and fences
along public ways; and
         (c)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of non-historic
buildings subject to view from a public way by additions, reconstruction,
alteration or maintenance involving exterior color change.
      (2)   The objections must be received by the Commission not earlier than
180 days or later than 60 days before the third anniversary of the adoption of
the ordinance.
   (D)   Paint colors. In an ordinance approving the establishment of a
historic district, the City Council may exclude changes in paint colors from
the activities requiring the issuance of a certificate of appropriateness under
§
33.136 of this subchapter before a permit may be issued or work begun.
   (E)   Map. The map establishing boundaries of a historic district may be
recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
(Ord. 22-09, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 33.135 INTERIM PROTECTION.
   The Commission shall have no powers of interim protection.
(Ord. 22-09, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 33.136 CERTIFICATES OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   Certificates of appropriateness required. A certificate of
appropriateness must be issued by or on behalf of the Commission before a
permit is issued for or work is begun on any of the following:
      (1)   Within all areas of a historic district:
         (a)   The demolition of any building;
         (b)   The moving of any building;
         (c)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of historic
buildings by additions, reconstruction, alteration or maintenance involving
exterior color change; or
         (d)   Any new construction of a principal building or accessory
building or structure subject to view from a public way.
      (2)   Within a primary area of a historic district:
         (a)   A change in walls and fences or the construction of walls and
fences along public ways; or
         (b)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of non-historic
buildings subject to view from a public way by additions, reconstruction,
alteration or maintenance involving exterior color change.
      (3)   Within the first phase of a two-phase establishment of a historic
district:
         (a)   The moving of any building;
         (b)   The demolition of any building; or
         (c)   Any new construction of a principal building or accessory
building or structure subject to view from a public way.
   (B)   Application for certificates of appropriateness. Application for a
certificate of appropriateness shall be made in the office of the Commission on
forms provided by that office. Detailed drawings, plans or specifications are
not required. However, to the extent reasonably requited for the Commission to
make a decision, each application must be accompanied by sketches, drawings,
photographs, descriptions or other information showing the proposed exterior
alterations, additions, changes or new construction.
   (C)   Approval or denial of certificates of appropriateness. The Commission
may advise and make recommendations to the applicant before acting on an
application for a certificate of appropriateness. If an application for a
certificate of appropriateness is approved by the Commission, or is not acted
on by the Commission, within 30 days after it is filed, a certificate of
appropriateness shall be issued. If the certificate is issued, the application
shall be processed in the same manner as applications for building or
demolition permits required by the city, if any, are processed. If no building
or demolition permits arc required by the city, the applicant may proceed with
the work authorized by the certificate. If the Commission denies an application
for a certificate of appropriateness within 30 days after it is filed, the
certificate may not be issued. The Commission must state its reasons for the
denial in writing, and must advise the applicant. An application that has been
denied may not be processed as an application for a building or demolition
permit and does not authorize any work by the applicant. The Commission may
grant an extension of the 30-day limit if the applicant agrees to it.
   (D)   Criteria for considering effect of actions on historic buildings. The
Commission, in considering the appropriateness of any reconstruction,
alteration, maintenance or moving of a historic building or any part of or
appurtenance to such building, including walls, fences, light fixtures, steps,
paving and signs shall require that such work be done in a manner that will
preserve the historical and architectural character of the building, structure
or appurtenance. In considering historic and architectural character, the
Commission shall consider, among other things, the following:
      (1)   Purposes of this subchapter;
      (2)   Historical and architectural value and significance of the
building, structure, site or appurtenance;
      (3)   Compatibility and significance of additions, alterations, details,
materials or other non-original elements which may be of a different style and
construction date than the original;
      (4)   The texture, material, color, style and detailing of the building,
structure, site or appurtenance;
      (5)   The continued preservation and protection of original or otherwise
significant structure, material and ornamentation;
      (6)   The relationship of buildings, structures, appurtenances or
architectural features similar to one within the same historic district,
including for primary areas, visual compatibility as defined in §
33.138(B) of this subchapter; and
      (7)   The position of the building or structure in relation to the
street, public right-of-way and to other buildings and structures.
   (E)   Procedure for demolition upon denial of a certificate of
appropriateness.
      (1)   The purpose of this division (E) is to preserve historic buildings
that are important to the education, culture, traditions and economic values of
the city, and to afford the city, historical organizations and other interested
persons the opportunity to acquire or to arrange for the preservation of these
buildings. If a property owner demonstrates that a historic building is
incapable of earning an economic return on its value, as appraised by a
qualified real estate appraiser, and the Commission fails to approve the
issuance of a certificate of appropriateness, the building may be demolished.
      (2)   However, before a demolition permit is issued or demolition
proceeds, the following requirements for notice must be met:
         (a)   Notice of the proposed demolition must be given for a period
fixed by the Commission, based on the Commission’s classification on the
approved map, but not less than 60 days nor more than one year;
         (b)   Notice must be posted on the premises of the building proposed
for demolition in a location clearly visible from the street;
         (c)   Notice must be published in a newspaper of general local
circulation at least three times before demolition, with the first publication
not more than 15 days after the application for a permit to demolish is filed,
and the final publication at least 15 days before the date of the permit.
      (3)   The Commission may approve a certificate of appropriateness at any
time during the notice period under this division (E). If the certificate is
approved, a demolition permit shall be issued without further delay, and
demolition may proceed.
(Ord. 22-09, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 33.137 STAFF APPROVALS.
   (A)   The staff of the Commission, on behalf of the Commission, may be
authorized to grant or deny an application for a certificate of appropriateness
for types as defined by the Commission, except for types described in division
(B) below.
   (B)   The staff of the Commission may not grant or deny an application for a
certificate of appropriateness for the following types of applications:
      (1)   The demolition of a building;
      (2)   The moving of a building;
      (3)   The construction of an addition to a building; and
      (4)   The construction of a new building.
(Ord. 22-09, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 33.138 VISUAL COMPATIBILITY.
   (A)   New buildings and non-historic buildings. Except as provided in §
33.134(D) of this subchapter, the construction of a new building or structure,
and the moving, reconstruction, alteration, major maintenance, or repair
involving a color change conspicuously affecting the external appearance of any
non-historic building, structure or appurtenance within the primary area of a
historic district must be generally of a design, form, proportion, mass,
configuration, building material, texture, color and location on a lot
compatible with other buildings in the historic district, particularly with
buildings designated as historic, and with squares and places to which it is
visually related.
   (B)   Criteria for considering visual compatibility. Except as provided in §
33.134(D) of this subchapter, within the primary area of a historic district,
new buildings and structures, as well as buildings, structures and
appurtenances that are moved, reconstructed, materially altered, repaired or
changed in color, must be visually compatible with buildings, squares and
places to which they are visually related generally in terms of the following
visual compatibility factors.
      (1)   Height. The height of proposed buildings must be visually
compatible with adjacent buildings.
      (2)   Proportion of building’s front facade. The relationship of the
width of a building to the height of the front elevation must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (3)   Proportion of openings within the facility. The relationship of the
width of the windows to the height of windows in a building must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (4)   Rhythm of solids to voids in front facades. The relationship of
solids to voids in the front facade of a building must be visually compatible
with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (5)   Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. The relationship of a
building to the open space between it and adjoining buildings must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (6)   Rhythm of entrances and porch projections. The relationship of
entrances and porch projections of a building to sidewalks must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (7)   Relationship of materials, texture and color. The relationship of
the materials, texture and color of the facade of a building must be visually
compatible with the predominant materials used in the buildings to which it is
visually related.
      (8)   Roof shapes. The roof shape of a building must be visually
compatible with the buildings to which it is visually related.
      (9)   Walls of continuity. Appurtenances of a building such as walls,
wrought iron fences, evergreen landscape masses and building facades, must form
cohesive walls of enclosure along the street, if necessary to ensure visual
compatibility of the building to the buildings, squares and places to which it
is visually related.
      (10)   Scale of a building. The size of a building, and the building mass
of a building in relation to open spaces, windows, door openings, porches and
balconies must be visually compatible with the buildings, squares and places to
which it is visually related.
      (11)   Directional expression of front elevation. A building must be
visually compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually
related in its directional character, including vertical character, horizontal
character or nondirectional character.
(Ord. 22-09, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 33.139 PRESERVATION OF HISTORICAL AND ARCHITECTURAL CHARACTER UPON ALTERATION
OR RELOCATION MANDATED.
   (A)   A historic building or structure or any part of or appurtenance to
such a building or structure, including stone walls, fences, light fixtures,
steps, paving and signs may be moved, reconstructed, altered or maintained only
in a manner that will preserve the historical and architectural character of
the building, structure or appurtenance.
   (B)   A historic building may be relocated to another site only if it is
shown that preservation on its current site is inconsistent with division (A)
above.
(Ord. 22-09, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 33.140 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Historic buildings shall be maintained to meet the applicable
requirements established under state statute for buildings generally so as to
prevent the loss of historic material and the deterioration of important
character defining details and features.
   (B)   Ordinary repairs and maintenance: nothing in this section shall be
construed to prevent the ordinary repairs and maintenance of any historic
building, provided that such repairs or maintenance do not result in a
conspicuous change in the design, form, proportion, mass, configuration,
building material, texture, color, location or external visual appearance of
any structure, or part thereof.
(Ord. 22-09, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 33.141 RELATIONSHIP WITH ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Zoning districts lying within the boundaries of the historic district are
subject to the regulations for both the zoning district and the historic
district. If there is a conflict between the requirements of the zoning
district and the requirements of the historic district, the more restrictive
requirements apply.
(Ord. 22-09, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 33.142 REMOVAL OF HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGNATION.
   (A)   This section provides the exclusive method for removing the
designation of a historic district.
   (B)   The owner or owners of a building, structure, or site designated as a
single site historic district may sign and file a petition with the City
Council requesting removal of the designation of the building, structure or
site as a historic district. In the case of a historic district containing two
or more parcels, at least 60% of the owners of the real property of the
historic district may sign and file a petition with the City Council requesting
removal of the designation of the historic district.
   (C)   The City Council shall submit a petition filed under division (B)
above to the Commission. The Commission shall conduct a public hearing on the
petition not later than 60 days after receiving the petition. The Commission
shall provide notice of the hearing:
      (1)   By publication under I.C. 5-3-1-2(b);
      (2)   In the case of a historic district comprised of real property owned
by fewer than 50 property owners, by certified mail, sent at least ten days
before the hearing, to each owner of real estate within the historic district;
and
      (3)   In the case of a single building, structure or site designated as a
historic district, by certified mail, sent at least ten days before the
hearing, to each owner of the real estate abutting the building, structure or
site designated as a historic district that is the subject of the petition.
   (D)   The Commission shall make the following findings after the public
hearing:
      (1)   Whether a building, structure or site within the historic district
continues to meet the criteria for inclusion in a historic district as set
forth in the ordinance approving the historic district map under §
33.134 of this subchapter. The determination must state specifically the
criteria that are applicable to the buildings, structures or sites within the
district;
      (2)   Whether failure to remove the designation of the historic district
would deny an owner of a building, structure or site within the historic
district reasonable use of the owner’s property or prevent reasonable economic
return. Evidence provided by the petitioner may include information on:
         (a)   Costs to comply with regulations;
         (b)   Income generation;
         (c)   Availability of contractors to perform work;
         (d)   Real estate values;
         (e)   Assessed values and taxes;
         (f)   Revenue projections;
         (g)   Current level of return;
         (h)   Operating expenses;
         (i)   Vacancy rates;
         (j)   Financing issues;
         (k)   Efforts to explore alternative uses for a property;
         (l)   Availability of economic incentives; and
         (m)   Recent efforts to sell or rent property.
      (3)   Whether removal of the designation of a historic district would
have an adverse economic impact on the owners of real estate abutting the
historic district, based on testimony and evidence provided by the owners of
the real estate and licensed real estate appraisers or brokers; and
      (4)   Whether removal of or failure to remove the designation of the
historic district would have an adverse impact on the city’s historic
resources, and specifically whether it would result in the loss of a building,
structure or site classified as historic by the Commission’s survey prepared
under §
33.133 of this subchapter.
   (E)   Not later than ten days after the public hearing, the Commission shall
submit:
      (1)   Its findings on the petition; and
      (2)   A recommendation to grant or deny the petition to the City Council.
   (F)   (1)   Not later than 45 days after receiving the Commission’s
findings, the City Council shall:
         (a)   Take public comment and receive evidence in support of or in
opposition to the petition; and
         (b)   Do one of the following:
            1.   Deny the petition;
            2.   Grant the petition by adopting an ordinance that removes the
designation of the historic district by:
               a.   A majority vote, if the recommendation of the Commission is
to grant the petition; or
               b.   A two-thirds vote, if the recommendation of the Commission
is to deny the petition.
      (2)   The City Council shall record an ordinance adopted under division
(F)(1)(b) above with the County Recorder not later than ten days after the City
Council adopts the ordinance. The historic district designation is considered
removed on the date the ordinance is recorded with the County Recorder.
   (G)   (1)   If the City Council does not grant or deny the petition within
45 days after receiving the Commission’s findings:
         (a)   The petition is considered granted or denied in accordance with
the recommendation of the Commission; and
         (b)   If the petition is considered granted, the City Council shall,
not later than 55 days after receiving the Commission’s findings:
            1.   Adopt an ordinance that removes the designation of the
historic district; and
            2.   Record the ordinance with the County Recorder.
      (2)   The historic district designation is considered removed on the date
the ordinance is recorded with the County Recorder.
(Ord. 22-09, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 33.143 ENFORCEMENT BY INTERESTED PARTIES.
   (A)   An interested party (as defined in §
33.131) has a private right of action to enforce and prevent violation of a
provision of this subchapter or an ordinance adopted by the city under this
subchapter, and with respect to any building, structure or site within a
historic district, and has the right to restrain, enjoin or enforce by
restraining order or injunction, temporarily or permanently, any person from
violating a provision of this subchapter or an ordinance adopted by the city
under this subchapter.
   (B)   The interested party does not have to allege or prove irreparable harm
or injury to any person or property to obtain relief under this section.
   (C)   The interested party bringing an action under this section does not
have to post a bond unless the court, after a hearing, determines that a bond
should be required in the interest of justice.
   (D)   The interested party that brings an action under this section is not
liable to any person for damages resulting from bringing or prosecuting the
action unless the action was brought without good faith or without a reasonable
belief that a provision of this subchapter, or an ordinance adopted by the City
Council pursuant to this subchapter, had been, or was about to be violated or
breached.
   (E)   An interested party who obtains a favorable judgment in an action
under this section may recover reasonable attorney fees and court costs from
the person against whom judgment was rendered.
   (F)   An action arising under this section must be brought in the circuit or
superior court of the county in which the historic district lies and no change
of venue from the county shall be allowed in the action.
   (G)   The remedy provided in this section is in addition to other remedies
that may be available at law or in equity.
(Ord. 22-09, passed 7-11-2022)
§ 33.144 ENFORCEMENT AND JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Each day of the existence of any violation of this subchapter shall be
a separate offense.
   (B)   The erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair,
demolition, color change, moving or maintenance of any building, structure or
appurtenance which is begun, continued or maintained contrary to any provisions
of this subchapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance and in violation of this
subchapter and unlawful. The city may institute a suit for injunction in the
Circuit Court or Superior Court of Hamilton County to restrain any person or
government unit from violating any provision of this subchapter and to cause
such violation to be prevented, abated or removed. Such action may also be
instituted by any property owner who is adversely affected by the violation of
any provision of this chapter.
   (D)   The remedies provided for in this section shall be cumulative and not
exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
   (E)   Any person or party aggrieved by a decision of the Commission shall be
entitled to judicial review under I.C. 36-7-4 as if it were a final decision of
a Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 22-09, passed 7-11-2022) Penalty, see §
33.999
WESTFIELD MAYOR’S YOUTH COUNCIL
§ 33.150 ESTABLISHED.
   The Westfield Mayor's Youth Council ("WMYC") is hereby established.
(Ord. 25-25, passed 4-28-2025)
§ 33.151 MISSION STATEMENT.
   To inspire and empower exceptional young adults in Westfield by providing
unique leadership and service opportunities that benefit both the youth and the
Westfield community at large.
(Ord. 25-25, passed 4-28-2025)
§ 33.152 MEMBERS.
   All members of the WMYC must be residents of Westfield, Indiana, and
currently enrolled as high school students in Indiana.
(Ord. 25-25, passed 4-28-2025)
§ 33.153 CONSTITUTION.
   The Constitution of the WMYC is attached to Ord. 25-25 as "Exhibit 1". This
Constitution outlines the duties and responsibilities within the WMYC, and may
be amended as provided therein.
(Ord. 25-25, passed 4-28-2025)
§ 33.154 BYLAWS.
   The WMYC shall propose its own bylaws. Any proposed bylaws or amendments to
the bylaws must be approved by the Mayor before adoption or amendment.
(Ord. 25-25, passed 4-28-2025)
§ 33.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, whether as principal, agent, owner, lessee, tenant,
contractor, builder, architect, engineer or otherwise, who violates any
provision of §§
33.130 through
33.144 shall be subject to a fine as follows, for each offense:
      (1)   Not less than $10 nor more than $2,500 for demolition; and
      (2)   Not less than $10 nor more than $300 for all other offenses.
(Ord. 22-09, passed 7-11-2022)
CHAPTER 34: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
34.001   Title
   
34.002   Purpose
   
34.003   Authority
   
34.004   Applicability
   
34.005   Severability
   
34.006   Minimum standards
   
34.007   Effect of adoption on prior ordinance
   
34.008   Definitions
Organization
   
34.020   Organization of Westfield Fire Department Fire and Life Safety
Division
   
34.021   Fire and life safety divisions established; jurisdiction
   
34.022   Enforcement authority
   
34.023   Authority at fires and emergencies
   
34.024   Emergency lines and limits
   
34.025   Fire investigations
   
34.026   Plan review
   
34.027   Fire and life safety inspections
   
34.028   Emergency entry
Inspections and Investigations
   
34.040   Right to enter buildings
   
34.041   Fire and life safety inspections; fees
   
34.042   Determination of violation
   
34.043   Notice of violation
   
34.044   Imminent danger
   
34.045   Duty to correct violations
   
34.046   Time limit
   
34.047   Appeal from orders
   
34.048   Local ordinance appeals process
   
34.049   Variances
   
34.050   Order to correct violations
   
34.051   Order forbidding occupancy
   
34.052   Records and reports
   
34.053   Remedies
   
34.054   Certificate of occupancy
Enforcement Responsibility
   
34.065   Enforcement authority
   
34.066   Legal assistance
   
34.067   Law enforcement assistance
General Safety Provisions
   
34.080   Open burning
Fire Service Features
   
34.095   Address identification
   
34.096   Fire lane markings
   
34.097   Gates and barricades
   
34.098   Fire Department connections, locations, access and signage
   
34.099   Marking of fire protection equipment, fire hydrants and apparatus
access roads
   
34.100   Fire Department access roads
   
34.101   Key boxes
   
34.102   Water supply
   
34.103   Fire flow requirements
   
34.104   Fire hydrants
   
34.105   Required water supply for fire protection
   
34.106   Emergency radio responder coverage (ERRC)
Fire Protection Systems
   
34.120   Construction documents
Smoke Detectors and Smoke Alarms
   
34.135   Dwellings; smoke detector and smoke alarm requirements
Means of Egress
   
34.150   Means of egress illumination and exit signs
   
34.151   Means of egress continuity
   
34.152   Exit stairwell identification
Fire Protection Equipment
   
34.165   Portable fire extinguishers
   
34.166   Requirements for commercial kitchen exhaust equipment and fire
protection equipment
   
34.167   Unlawful interference with fire protection equipment, barricades,
devices, signs and seals
Fire Alarm/Detection Systems
   
34.180   Scope of subchapter
   
34.181   Notification upon fire alarm activation
   
34.182   Faulty alarms
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
34.195   Consumer fireworks
   
34.196   Vacant or abandoned buildings; placarding
   
34.197   Underground storage tanks; notification
   
34.198   Traffic signals
 
   
34.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.001 TITLE.
   This chapter and all material included herein by reference shall be known as
the Fire Prevention Ordinance of Westfield, Indiana.
(Prior Code, § 38-1) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect life, environment, health and
general welfare of the citizens of th city, and shall be construed in such a
manner as to effectuate this purpose.
(Prior Code, § 38-2) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.003 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s designee, are hereby authorized
and directed to administer and enforce the following:
      (1)   All of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11; and
      (3)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7.
   (B)   The City of Westfield Fire Protection Ordinance shall be enforced
throughout the boundaries of the City of Westfield and Washington Township,
Hamilton County by the Fire Chief, the Fire Marshal or their designee.
(Prior Code, § 38-3) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.004 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be supplemental to the fire safety laws
adopted by the Commission which are hereby adopted by the city. This chapter
shall apply to all Class 1 structures. Subchapters and sections shall only
apply to Class 2 structures when specifically noted. When any provision of this
chapter is found to be in conflict with any rule of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, the rule of the Commission shall prevail. This
chapter shall apply to, and be in force and effect within all areas of the city
in the county that is served by the Westfield Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 38-4) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.005 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter be declared invalid, by a court of
competent jurisdiction, for any reason, the remaining provisions shall not be
affected, if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or
provisions be given their original intended effect in adopting this chapter. To
this end, the provisions of this chapter are severable.
(Prior Code, § 38-5) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.006 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   All rules of the Commission as set out in 675 I.A.C. Articles 12, 13, 18, 22
and 25 are incorporated in this chapter and shall include all later amendments
to those articles as published in the Indiana Register or the Indiana
Administrative Code with effective dates as fixed therein. Any special
processes or procedures not addressed in the Indiana Fire Code (675 I.A.C. 22)
or this chapter shall be subject to applications found in fire safety standards
recognized by Indiana Fire Code (675 I.A.C. 22), Referenced Standards and as
approved by the Fire Chief, or his or her designee. Any special processes or
procedures not addressed in this chapter shall be subject to applications found
in the current editions of the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA)
Standards or other recognized fire safety standards, subject to the rules of
the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 38-6)
§ 34.007 EFFECT OF ADOPTION ON PRIOR ORDINANCE.
   The expressed or implied repeal of amendment by this chapter of any other
ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred or proceedings begun prior to the
effective date of this chapter. Such rights, liabilities and other proceedings
are continued and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the repealed or
amended ordinance as if this chapter had not been adopted.
(Prior Code, § 38-7) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.008 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUILDING CODE. The Indiana Building Code (675 I.A.C. 13).
      CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-4.
      CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-5.
      COMMISSION. The Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission as
established by I.C. 22-12-2.
      FIRE AND LIFE SAFETY DIVISION. The Fire and Life Safety Division
established by this chapter for the city.
      FIRE CHIEF. The chief officer of the Westfield Fire Department and the
Fire and Life Safety Division.
      FIRE CODE. The Indiana Fire Code (675 I.A.C. 22).
      FIRE MARSHAL. The administrative head of a Fire and Life Safety Division
appointed pursuant to §
34.020 of this chapter.
      FUEL GAS CODE. The Indiana Fuel Gas Code (675 I.A.C. 25).
      HAZARDOUS CONDITION. The presence of a structural condition, equipment,
utility connection or materials which constitutes or poses a recognized threat
of fire or other injury to persons or property.
      I.A.C. The Indiana Administrative Code.
      I.C. The Indiana Code of the Indiana General Assembly.
      MECHANICAL CODE. The Indiana Mechanical Code (675 I.A.C. 18).
      NOTICE OF VIOLATION. A written notice issued by the city’s Fire
Department usually in the form of an inspection report listing violation(s).
      OWNER. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in 675 I.A.C. 22.
      PERSON. Has the meaning ascribed thereto in I.C. 22-12-1-18.
      QUALIFIED PERSON. A person who either holds current National Institute
for Certification in Engineering Technologies (NICET) certification in the fire
protection system being installed, serviced or repaired, or has successfully
completed a course of instruction specific to the equipment being installed,
serviced or repaired. Such instruction shall have been approved by the
manufacturer of the equipment or their authorized representative.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, erected or established that requires
location on or in the ground or is attached to something having a location on
or in the ground.
   (B)   Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined in this chapter and are
defined in the General Administrative Rules, Indiana Building Code, Indiana
Fire Code, Indiana Mechanical Code and Indiana Fuel Gas Code, such terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them as in those codes. Where terms are not
defined through the methods authorized, such terms shall have ordinarily
accepted meanings such as the context implies.
(Prior Code, § 38-8) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
ORGANIZATION
§ 34.020 ORGANIZATION OF WESTFIELD FIRE DEPARTMENT FIRE AND LIFE SAFETY
DIVISION.
   The Fire and Life Safety Division of the Westfield Fire Department shall be
under the supervision of the Fire Marshal appointed pursuant to the applicable
personnel rules of the city’s Fire Department under this Chapter 34 of the
city’s municipal code.
(Prior Code, § 38-21)
§ 34.021 FIRE AND LIFE SAFETY DIVISIONS ESTABLISHED; JURISDICTION.
   There is hereby established a local Fire and Life Safety Division within the
city’s Fire Department and within Washington Township located within Hamilton
County that is not completely within the boundaries of the city.
(Prior Code, § 38-22) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.022 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or their designee, shall possess the
authority to enforce the provisions of this chapter, the Indiana General
Administrative Rules, Indiana Fire Code, Indiana Building Code, Indiana
Mechanical Code, Indiana Fuel Gas Code or any other rule of the Commission.
Such enforcement shall include, but is not limited to:
      (1)   The prevention of fires;
      (2)   The handling, storage, sale and use of flammable liquids,
explosives, combustible and hazardous materials;
      (3)   The adequacy of means of egress from all places in which numbers of
people live, work or congregate from time to time for any purpose;
      (4)   The location, installation and maintenance of smoke alarms, fire
alarm systems and fire suppression systems; and
      (5)   The existence of recognized hazardous conditions that present a
clear and immediate hazard to life and property.
   (B)   The Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or their designee, shall have the
authority to initiate legal action in accordance with locally prescribed
remedies applicable to violations of the Indiana General Administrative Rules,
Indiana Fire Code, Indiana Building Code, Indiana Mechanical Code, Indiana Fuel
Gas Code, this chapter or any other rule of the Commission. Violators of this
chapter may be cited into any court having jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 38-23) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.023 AUTHORITY AT FIRES AND EMERGENCIES.
   The Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or their designee, at any fire, explosion,
rescue, emergency medical or hazardous materials incident, or any other
emergency which poses imminent threat to life, environment or property, shall
have the authority to direct operations as necessary to control, mitigate or
eliminate the emergency. It shall be unlawful for any person to impede the
emergency operations of the city’s Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 38-24) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.024 EMERGENCY LINES AND LIMITS.
   The Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or their designee, may establish emergency
lines and limits; and, barricade or guard from the general public such
emergency lines and limits. The Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or their designee, may
create an area in which only firefighters, law enforcement personnel, other
emergency responders, other people or agencies having a direct interest in any
property threatened by a fire, explosion, hazardous material incident, other
emergency, other people, or agencies at the discretion of the Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal or their designee, shall be admitted. It shall be unlawful for any
unauthorized person to cross such emergency lines or limits.
(Prior Code, § 38-25) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.025 FIRE INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s designee, shall perform fire
investigations pursuant to I.C. 36-8-17-7. The Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s
designee, is authorized to conduct an origin and cause investigation of all
fires and explosions within the City Fire Department’s jurisdiction.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to impede the Fire Chief, or the
Fire Chief’s designee, from conducting an origin and cause investigation.
(Prior Code, § 38-26) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.026 PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   The city’s Fire Department, Fire and Life Safety Division shall
perform a review of all pertinent site plans, building plans (construction),
fire protection system plans and specifications including sprinkler, fire alarm
systems and hood suppression systems of any project within the boundaries of
the city’s Fire Department, in order to determine whether such plans and
specifications comply with the applicable rules of the Commission, this chapter
and any other codes, standards or rules that may apply.
   (B)   Separate review and permits shall be required for fire protection
systems based on the fire protection permit standards in this chapter.
      (1)   Plans shall be submitted to the city’s Fire Department, Fire and
Life Safety Division in a digital format and have available at the city’s
Building and Planning Departments traditional 24 inches by 36 inches paper
form.
      (2)   Fire Department plan review shall occur at the following phases:
site plan; construction plan; and fire protection systems plan. This review
shall run concurrent to the city plan review and any issues or corrections that
need to be made to the plans shall be completed by the developer prior to the
approval of the city’s Planning and Building Department and the city’s Fire
Department. No city or City Fire Department approvals or permits shall be given
or issued until review as provided herein and compliance has occurred.
(Prior Code, § 38-27) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.027 FIRE AND LIFE SAFETY INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or their designee, shall conduct fire and
life safety inspections in Class 1 structures pursuant to I.C. 36-8-17-8.
   (B)   Class 1 structures shall be inspected as often as necessary for the
purpose of ascertaining and causing to correct any violation of the Indiana
General Administrative Rules, Indiana Fire Code, Indiana Building Code, Indiana
Fuel Gas Code, this chapter or any other rule of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 38-28) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.028 EMERGENCY ENTRY.
   The city’s Fire Department shall have the right to enter any building or
premises without permission or warrant in the event of any emergency situation
constituting a threat to human life, property or public safety for the purpose
of eliminating, controlling or abating the dangerous condition or situation.
(Prior Code, § 38-29) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS
§ 34.040 RIGHT TO ENTER BUILDINGS.
   Authorized personnel of the city’s Fire Department may, at all reasonable
hours, enter any structure (except private dwellings) within the city or
Washington Township in Hamilton County for the purpose of conducting
inspections or investigations pursuant to this chapter. The right to enter
shall extend to new structures under construction as well as to existing
structures being renovated or remodeled. An inspector or investigator may be
required by the owner or occupant to produce satisfactory proof of authority or
identity. If an inspector or investigator is denied access, the Fire Marshal
may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for an order allowing
inspection.
(Prior Code, § 38-41) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.041 FIRE AND LIFE SAFETY INSPECTIONS; FEES.
   (A)   The city’s Fire Department shall perform fire and life safety
inspections in Class 1 structures under the administrative supervision of the
Fire Chief pursuant to I.C. 36-8-17.
   (B)   The city’s Fire Department may, as often as may be reasonably
necessary inspect every structure, building, place and public way, except the
interiors of private dwellings, for compliance with fire safety laws adopted by
the Commission and this chapter.
   (C)   Upon the request of an owner or a primary lessee who resides in a
private dwelling, the city’s Fire Department may inspect the interior of the
private dwelling to determine compliance with I.C. 22-11-18-3.5 and all other
applicable law and regulations.
   (D)   The fees for city’s Fire Department inspections performed under this
section shall be the current fee/fine structure set by the city.
   (E)   Following the issuance of an inspection report that contains a
violation of a fire safety law, pursuant to the enforcement procedures under §
34.022 of this chapter, the city’s Fire Department may re-inspect a structure,
building or place to ensure the violation has been remedied. If a violation
cited in the inspection report is not remedied upon the city’s Fire Department
re-inspection, the owner or, if applicable, primary lessee of the structure,
building or place shall be subject to the fee/fine structure set by the city
for any subsequent re-inspections of such violation.
   (F)   All code violations will be documented on a fire inspection report
form. Each business will be given 30 days to correct code violations. Certain
code violations may be given less time to correct due to their severity.
(Prior Code, § 38-42) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.042 DETERMINATION OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or their designee, determines by
inspection that an apparent or actual violation of the Indiana General
Administrative Rules, Indiana Fire Code, Indiana Building Code, Indiana
Mechanical Code, Indiana Fuel Gas Code, this Fire Prevention Code, any other
rule of the Commission or a hazardous condition exists upon any Class 1
structure within the city’s Fire Department service area, the person making
such determination shall issue such notice of violation or order as may be
necessary for the enforcement of the Indiana General Administrative Rules,
Indiana Fire Code, Indiana Building Code, Indiana Mechanical Code, Indiana Fuel
Gas Code, this fire prevention code or any other rule of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 38-43) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.043 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Under I.C. 36-8-17-9, an order of enforcement of the Indiana General
Administrative Rules, Indiana Fire Code, Indiana Building Code, Indiana
Mechanical Code, Indiana Fuel Gas Code, this fire prevention ordinance or any
other rule of the Commission, which is within the jurisdiction of the Fire
Chief, Fire Marshal or their designee, may seek the correction of any violation
or the elimination of any hazardous condition by the methods specified in this
chapter or by any other appropriate remedy or procedure provided by law. The
failure of the city’s Fire Department to inspect or to issue a notice of
violation or order in accordance with this chapter shall not constitute
approval of any violation or noncompliance. Any notice of violation or order
issued pursuant to this section shall be conveyed upon the owner, operator,
occupant or other person responsible for the building or property. Conveyance
of such order shall be by one of the following methods: personal service (by
affixing a copy thereof in a conspicuous place at the entrance of said building
or premises); or by mailing a copy thereof to such responsible person by first-
class mail to his or her last known address pursuant to I.C. 4-21.5-3-6.
(Prior Code, § 38-44) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.044 IMMINENT DANGER.
   The Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s designee, may stop an operation or
require the evacuation with the approval of the State Fire Marshal of any Class
1 structure or portion thereof under the provisions of I.C. 36-8-17-9 when it
is determined that conduct or conditions of the property:
   (A)   Present a clear and immediate hazard of death or serious bodily injury
to any person other than a trespasser;
   (B)   Is prohibited without a permit, registration, certification,
authorization, variance, exemption or other license required under I.C. 22-14,
another state statute or rule of the Commission; or
   (C)   Will conceal a violation of law.
(Prior Code, § 38-45) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.045 DUTY TO CORRECT VIOLATIONS.
   The owner or person in control of any premises or building upon which a
violation or hazard exists shall:
   (A)   Cease and correct the violation; and
   (B)   Protect persons and property from the hazards of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 38-46) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.046 TIME LIMIT.
   Orders shall set forth a time limit for compliance dependent upon the type
of hazard created by the violation(s).
(Prior Code, § 38-47) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.047 APPEAL FROM ORDERS.
   An owner or occupant who remains aggrieved by an order or decision issued
pursuant to this fire prevention ordinance and the matter involves a rule of
the Commission, may appeal to the Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission as set forth by I.C. 36-8-17.
(Prior Code, § 38-48) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.048 LOCAL ORDINANCE APPEALS PROCESS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief or Fire Marshal, on the complaint of any person or
wherever he, she or they shall deem it necessary, shall inspect all buildings
and premises within their jurisdiction. Whenever any of said officers shall
find any building or other structure which, for want of repairs, lack of or
insufficient fire escapes, automatic or other fire alarm apparatus, or fire
extinguishing equipment, or by reason of age or dilapidated condition, or from
any other cause, is especially liable to fire, and which is so situated as to
endanger other property or the occupants thereof, or whenever such officer
shall find in any building combustible or explosive matter or flammable
conditions dangerous to the safety of such building or the occupants thereof,
he, she or they shall order such dangerous conditions or materials removed or
remedied, and such order shall be complied with by the owner or occupant of
such premises or building. If such order is made by the Fire Marshal or any of
the inspectors, such owner or occupant may, within 24 hours, appeal to the
Chief of the city’s Fire Department who shall, within five days, review such
order and file his or her decision thereon, and, unless by his or her authority
the order is revoked or modified, it shall remain in full force and be complied
with at the time fixed in said order or decision of the Chief of the city’s
Fire Department.
   (B)   However, an owner or occupant who remains aggrieved by the decision
issued pursuant to this chapter and the matter involves a rule of the
Commission, may appeal to such Commission as set forth by I.C. 36-8-17.
(Prior Code, § 38-49) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.049 VARIANCES.
   (A)   An owner requesting a variance from the provisions of this chapter
that are not contained in a rule of the Commission shall apply in writing to
the applicable Fire Prevention Chief. The granting of a variance shall be
considered only upon the written application of the owner of the property,
stating that:
      (1)   Practical difficulties have been encountered in the implementation
of specific requirements of this chapter;
      (2)   Compliance with specific requirements of this chapter will cause
unnecessary hardship to the owner; and
      (3)   The owner desires to take advantage of new methods or equipment
which is recognized as adequate for the purpose for which they are to be
substituted.
   (B)   A variance may be granted only if the Fire Prevention Chief determines
in writing that:
      (1)   The requested use or modification will conform with fundamental
requirements for safety; and
      (2)   The granting of the variance does not increase the risk of fire or
danger to the public. A copy of any variance granted shall be retained by the
Fire and Life Safety Division.
   (C)   A variance shall be enforced in the same manner as an order issued
under §
34.043 of this chapter.
   (D)   Whenever the Fire and Life Safety Division learns that an owner is in
violation of the terms of a variance issued pursuant to this section, the Fire
Marshal may order compliance as provided in §
34.042 with the variance or with this chapter.
   (E)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(c), variances granted by political
subdivisions to the fire safety laws and building laws adopted in its
ordinances are not effective until it approved by the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 38-50) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.050 ORDER TO CORRECT VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If an owner or occupant fails to comply with an inspection report
issued pursuant to §
34.043 of this chapter or a variance issued pursuant to §
34.049 of this chapter, the Fire Marshal may issue an order to compel
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The failure of the Fire and Life Safety Division to inspect or to
issue an order in accordance with this chapter shall not constitute approval of
any violation or noncompliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Any order issued pursuant to this section shall be served upon the
owner, operator, occupant or other person responsible for the building or
property. Service of such order shall be by personal service, or by affixing a
copy thereof in a conspicuous place at the entrance of said building or
premises and by mailing a copy thereof to the owner or occupant by first-class
mail to the owner’s or occupants last known address pursuant to I.C. 4-21.5-3.
(Prior Code, § 38-51) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.051 ORDER FORBIDDING OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   The Fire Chief or his or her designee is empowered to issue an order
forbidding the occupancy of any structure or part of a structure, in accordance
with I.C. 36-8-17-9.
   (B)   The Fire Chief or his or her designee is empowered to issue an order
forbidding continued construction of a building or structure when the building,
structure or property under development is in violation of state or local fire
prevention codes and continued work will:
      (1)   Conceal a violation of law;
      (2)   Be inaccessible to Fire Department apparatus; or
      (3)   Provide insufficient water supply as required by this chapter.
   (C)   The order forbidding occupancy or continued construction shall be in
writing, specifying whether it is applicable to the entire structure, part of
the structure, or the property under development. The order shall state the
reason for issuance and the conditions under which the structure, part of
structure or property may be occupied or construction continued. The order
shall be posted on the structure in a conspicuous location and if conveniently
possible, shall be given to the owner of the property or his or her agent and
to any other responsible person supervising work on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 38-52) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.052 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   The city’s Fire Department shall maintain files containing reports of
all properties that have been inspected, all orders issued, of all complaints
and fires investigated, and the location of all buildings containing hazardous
occupancies.
   (B)   Companies providing periodic inspections of fire protection systems
such as fire sprinklers, fire pumps, fire alarms, kitchen hood suppression or
clean agent, upon request, shall submit a copy of their inspection report to
the Division of Fire and Life Safety of the city’s Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 38-53) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.053 REMEDIES.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter or who shall fail
to comply with any order issued under this chapter, or who shall fail to comply
with or to obtain any permit required hereunder, shall be subject to penalties
prescribed in §
34.050 of this chapter. Each day a violation continues, it shall constitute an
additional violation.
(Prior Code, § 38-54) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.054 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Prior to the occupancy of any newly constructed Class 1 structure or
tenant area, an inspection and approval must be given by the city’s Building
Commissioner and the Fire Chief or the Fire Marshal and/or their respective
designees.
   (B)   After the final inspection occurs, a certificate of occupancy shall be
signed by the city’s Building Commissioner and the Fire Marshal. This will then
allow the occupant to start moving into the building. Occupancy prior to the
issuance of certificate of occupancy shall result in a fine set forth by the
current fee/fine structure set by the city.
      (1)   Acceptance testing. Prior to the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy for a newly-constructed, renovated or remodeled Class 1 structure,
the city’s Fire Department is required to witness a successful acceptance or
performance test in accordance with the appropriate installation standard or
manufacturer’s specifications for the following systems (if applicable):
         (a)   Fire alarm system;
         (b)   Sprinkler system;
         (c)   Special hazard fire suppression system; and
         (d)   Type I hood exhaust system.
      (2)   Written verification. Prior to the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy for a newly-constructed, renovated or remodeled Class 1 structure,
the city’s Fire Department requires written verification that each fire
protection and life safety system has been installed in complete agreement with
the terms of the listing, manufacturer’s instructions and the applicable
installation standards.
      (3)   Installation documents. Prior to the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy for a newly-constructed, renovated or remodeled Class 1 structure,
the city’s Fire Department requires the following documentation (if
applicable):
         (a)   Record of completion for fire alarm systems as required by NFPA
72;
         (b)   Contractor’s material and test certificate for aboveground
piping for sprinkler and standpipe systems as required by NFPA 13;
         (c)   Contractor’s material and test certificate for underground
piping for private fire service mains, fire hydrants and piping as required by
NFPA 13 and 24;
         (d)   Certificate of completion/installation for all special hazard
fire suppression systems; and
         (e)   Air balance test report (Type I and II exhaust hoods).
(Prior Code, § 38-55) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITY
§ 34.065 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The city’s Fire Department shall have the responsibility to enforce
all provisions of this chapter within its jurisdiction.
   (B)   The city’s Fire Department shall have such other powers and duties as
may be conferred from time to time by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 38-71) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.066 LEGAL ASSISTANCE.
   The Fire and Life Safety Division may obtain the services of the City
Attorney in connection with the enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-72) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.067 LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE.
   The Chief of the city’s Police Department or the Hamilton County Sheriff
may, upon request of the Fire Chief or the Fire Marshal, assign such available
law enforcement officers as may be necessary to assist the city’s Fire
Department or the Fire and Life Safety Division in the enforcement of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-73) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
GENERAL SAFETY PROVISIONS
§ 34.080 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Open burning is prohibited unless authorized and conducted in
accordance with the requirements contained in 326 I.A.C. 4-1, 675 I.A.C. 22,
and this section.
   (B)   In addition to the material restrictions identified in § 307.2.1 of
the 2014 Indiana Fire Code, burning of leaves shall be strictly prohibited
within the corporate boundaries of the city.
   (C)   In accordance with § 307.2 of the 2014 Indiana Fire Code, the city’s
Fire Department must be notified prior to commencement of open burning. To
obtain approval to commence open burning under § 307.1 of the 2014 Indiana Fire
Code, the Division of Fire and Life Safety shall perform a site visit and
approve a permit issued by the department authorizing the burning.
   (D)   (1)   Due to the risks related to the methods of open burning the
Division of Fire and Life Safety may require certain procedures to guarantee
public safety including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Standby fire personnel;
         (b)   Standby fire apparatus and equipment; and
         (c)   If the proposed burning would constitute a hazardous condition,
increased minimum separation distances and/or specific burning containers.
      (2)   The financial costs associated with these additional requirements
shall be the responsibility of the petitioner.
(Prior Code, § 38-81) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022) Penalty, see §
34.999
FIRE SERVICE FEATURES
§ 34.095 ADDRESS IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Generally. This section is to provide requirements to clearly identify
and mark proper addresses on buildings. This section applies to existing
buildings and new buildings, including buildings under construction.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   Approved numbers or addresses on a contrasting background shall be
placed above the doorway or in such a position as to be plainly visible and
legible from either direction of approach from the street or road fronting the
property. The minimum size dimensions of the numbers shall be as specified
below. Where a building or buildings are set back from the street or road
fronting the property and where addresses may not be clearly identifiable due
to distance from the street or roadway or to visual obstructions such as
landscaping or architectural features, address or number posting shall be
required both at the street or driveway serving such buildings and on the
buildings.
      (2)   (a)   Multi-tenant buildings such as commercial strip centers will
have the address on the rear door of their business as well. Residential homes
(single-family), individual condominiums, commercial suites and apartments
shall have numbers or letters installed in accordance with the scope of this
policy.
         (b)   In addition, minimum six-inch high numbers, with seven-eighths
inch stroke, must be used to indicate apartment range numbers. On individual
dwellings, a minimum four-inch high number, with three-fourths inch stroke,
must be used.
 
Commercial/industrial    6-12-inch number height 1-1/2-inch stroke width
Multi-unit residential   6-12-inch number height 1-1/2-inch stroke width
Single-family and duplex 4-inch number height    3/4-inch stroke width
 
(Prior Code, § 38-91) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.096 FIRE LANE MARKINGS.
   The location of fire lanes shall be established by the Fire Chief, or the
Fire Chief’s designee. The Fire Chief, or his or her designee, can require
signage or striping or any combination. Design of the fire lane markings shall
be approved by the Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s designee. The erection of
and maintenance of fire lane marking signs and striping shall be the
responsibility of the owner of private property upon which such lane marking
signs and striping is to be installed. All markings shall remain in good
visible condition as determined by the Fire Chief or the Fire Chief’s designee.
The parking or standing of any obstruction, including motor vehicles, within
established fire lane markings on private or public property shall be
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 38-92) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.097 GATES AND BARRICADES.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, or the Fire Chief’s designee, is authorized to approve
the installation of approved gates or other barricades across fire apparatus
access roads, trails or other access ways, not including public streets, alleys
or highways. Electric gate operators, where provided, shall be listed in
accordance with UL 325. Gates intended for automatic operation shall be
designed, constructed and installed to comply with the requirements of ASTM F
2200 (IFC 503.5).
   (B)   Approved gates or barricades shall be maintained by the property
owner.
   (C)   When a property is accessed through a gate or cross arm by means of a
key or swipe card, it shall be equipped with a key switch manufactured by the
Knox Company. The switch will be keyed to the city’s Fire Department Knox key.
The location to be installed will be determined by the Fire Chief or the Fire
Chief’s designee. This section shall apply to Class 1 structures as well.
(Prior Code, § 38-93) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.098 FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTIONS, LOCATIONS, ACCESS AND SIGNAGE.
   (A)   The location of the Fire Department connections shall be approved by
the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or their designee, with respect to fire hydrants,
Fire Department access roads, fire apparatus water supply lines, buildings,
utilities and landscaping.
   (B)   Access to Fire Department connections shall be maintained at all times
and not hindered by obstructions including fences, bushes, trees, walls or
other fixed or removable objects.
      (1)   Fire Department connections shall be free standing and remote from
the building.
      (2)   The connection shall be a five-inch Stortz type connection.
      (3)   The Fire Department connection shall be located to the curb cut of
the main entrance of the project site or building it serves. The connection
shall be arranged to face the street, driveway or fire access route. This
location shall be placed in an area that will not interfere with access to the
building when hoses are laid from the closest fire hydrant to the Fire
Department connection. It shall also be located a distance of one and one-half
the total height of the building away from building.
      (4)   The Fire Department connection shall be located not more than 100
feet from the nearest fire hydrant.
      (5)   The Stortz connection shall be arranged so that the connection is
between 30 and 36 inches above the finished grade, sidewalk or pit box top or
lid at the location of the connection.
      (6)   Where the Fire Department connection is subject to vehicular
damage, the connection shall be protected in accordance with the current
requirements of the state’s Fire Code.
      (7)   The exposed exterior piping for the Fire Department connection
shall be painted red if it supplies a sprinkler system only, yellow if it
supplies a combination sprinkler/standpipe system and green if it supplies a
standpipe system only. The address for the building shall be on the riser of
the Fire Department connection. The Stortz connection shall not be painted.
      (8)   The Fire Department connection shall not be more than 25 feet from
the curb.
      (9)   Security caps: when a building is protected by an automatic
sprinkler and/or standpipe system and the Fire Department connection is exposed
to undue vandalism, the Fire Chief or the Fire Marshal may require that a Knox
security cap be installed. All new buildings equipped with an automatic
sprinkler and/or a standpipe system shall install a Knox locking cap on the
Fire Department connection.
(Prior Code, § 38-94) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.099 MARKING OF FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT, FIRE HYDRANTS AND APPARATUS
ACCESS ROADS.
   (A)   Fire-protection equipment and fire hydrants shall be clearly
identified in a manner approved by the city’s Fire Department to prevent
obstruction by parking and other obstructions.
   (B)   Fire apparatus access roads shall be constructed in accordance with
the requirements in 675 I.A.C. 22 and shall be identified as fire access roads
and the provisions set forth in §
34.135 of this chapter shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 38-95) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.100 FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS ROADS.
   Shall be built in accordance with the currently adopted version of the
state’s Fire Code and:
   (A)   During construction fire apparatus access roads shall be constructed
to the city’s standards and specifications and shall be provided with a minimum
surface of compacted stone or if the building is being constructed of
combustible materials it shall have a minimum of asphalt binder.
   (B)   A minimum of two means of access shall be provided for:
      (1)   Any subdivision with 50 or more single or two-family residential
lots;
      (2)   Any development having one or more commercial, multi-family or
industrial structures, three stories or greater in height; or
      (3)   Any development having three or more commercial, multi-family or
industrial structures of any height.
(Prior Code, § 38-96) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.101 KEY BOXES.
   (A)   The Fire Chief or the Fire Marshal shall require a key box be
installed in an approved location(s) on any new Class 1 structure that is
protected by an automatic sprinkler system equipped with a local or transmitted
waterflow alarm, or the building is provided with any fire alarm system
equipped with an outside audible/visual signaling device, or the building is
provided with any fire alarm system where the alarm is transmitted to an off-
site location or to the fire alarm center for the servicing Fire Department, or
an area on that property is unduly difficult because of secure openings and
where immediate access is necessary for lifesaving or firefighting purposes for
property preservation.
   (B)   All key boxes shall be purchased from Knox Box Corporation and keyed
to the city’s Fire Department.
      (1)   The key box shall contain:
         (a)   Keys to locked points of ingress whether on the interior or
exterior of such buildings;
         (b)   Keys to locked mechanical equipment rooms;
         (c)   Keys to locked electrical rooms;
         (d)   Keys to elevator controls;
         (e)   Keys to other areas as directed by the fire official;
         (f)   Keys to post indicator valves controlling the water supply for
fire sprinkler systems; and
         (g)   Fire alarm control panels.
      (2)   The emergency key box shall be installed on the building no more
than three feet to the side of the main building entrance and approximately
five feet above grade. Alternate locations shall be approved by the Fire Chief
or Fire Marshal. The red reflective, Knox Co. sticker shall be affixed in the
upper corner of the main entrance door on the side leading to the key box.
(Prior Code, § 38-97) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.102 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   A water supply capable of supplying the required fire flow, for
firefighting purposes must be provided to all premises or property upon which a
Class 1 or Class 2 structure, or a portion of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure is
hereafter constructed.
   (B)   The water supply shall be provided as follows.
      (1)   When a municipal water supply is available and contingent to the
premises or property, fire hydrants and mains shall be installed and capable of
providing the required fire flow as determined by §
34.165 of this chapter.
      (2)   When a public water supply is not available to a premises, the
water supply shall consist of a pond, stream, river, canal, lake, reservoir,
quarry, pressure tank, elevated tank, swimming pool, other fixed systems or
Fire Department delivered portable system capable of providing the required
fire flow. The on-site water supply shall be accessible to the city’s Fire
Department and be located within 150 feet of the Class 1 building or structure
being protected with an automatic fire extinguishing system. If the on-site
water supply is not within 150 feet of the structure being protected, the water
supply shall be connected to onsite fire hydrants and mains capable of
supplying the required fire flow. The owner shall verify the water supply
requirements with the city’s Fire Department prior to final design and
construction. For buildings under construction, a water source approved by the
Fire Chief or the Fire Marshal that is capable of supplying the required fire
flow shall be made available prior to allowing combustible material to
accumulate at the job site. Fire hydrants shall be located within 400 feet of
the structure under construction. Fire hydrants shall be maintained clear and
accessible for fire protection during all phases of construction. Water for
construction purposes taken from hydrants shall in no way impede the city’s
Fire Department’s use of the hydrants in emergencies.
(Prior Code, § 38-98) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.103 FIRE FLOW REQUIREMENTS.
   In determining the requirements for fire flow the Fire Chief, or the Fire
Marshal, shall utilize 675 I.A.C. 22 Appendix B - Fire Flow Requirements for
Buildings and 675 I.A.C. 22 Appendix C - Fire Hydrant Locations and
Distribution as a guide. The requirements in Appendix B and C may not be made
more stringent by the Fire Chief or the Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 38-99) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.104 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   When determining the number and location of fire hydrants necessary to
provide the required fire flow, Fire Chief, the Fire Marshal and/or his or her
designee(s) shall use Appendix C, Fire Hydrant Locations and Distribution of
the current Fire Protection and Building Safety Commission adopted fire code.
   (B)   Fire hydrants shall only be used for fire protection, or as so
directed by the water utility having jurisdiction.
   (C)   Fire hydrants shall be kept clear and accessible at all times with a
minimum of three feet of clearance around the hydrant.
   (D)   Where the codes adopted by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission or this chapter requires three or more hydrants for proper fire-
flow, those hydrants shall be placed in a loop series in regards to the
servicing water mains.
   (E)   Public fire hydrants shall have a standard spacing as specified by the
servicing water company as well as the approval of the city’s Fire Department
Division of Fire and Life Safety.
   (F)   All public fire hydrants shall remain the standard (consistent) color
as provided by the servicing water company.
      (1)   Private hydrants.
         (a)   All private fire hydrants and water mains shall be installed and
maintained as set forth in the adopted Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission Fire Code.
         (b)   The proposed location of private fire hydrants to supply the
required fire flow shall be approved by the Fire Chief, the Fire Marshal and/or
his or her designee(s) prior to construction of any Class 1 structure.
         (c)   All private fire hydrants shall be painted yellow in color.
      (2)   Installation standards.
         (a)   Whenever the provisions of the chapter require the installation
of a fire hydrant, whether on public or private property, such hydrant shall
meet the following specifications.
            1.   It shall be equipped with a five-and-one-quarter-inch main
valve opening.
            2.   It shall be constructed with two two-and-one-half-inch hose
nozzles, with seven-and-one-half national standard threads per inch.
            3.   It shall be equipped with one four-and-one-half-inch steamer
nozzle equipped with a five-inch Storz connection.
            4.   It shall be constructed to be opened by turning clockwise a
national standard pentagon operating nut.
            5.   The source of the water supply shall be buried a minimum of
five feet below the ground level at the hydrant.
            6.   The hydrant shall be constructed with a break-off feature to
prevent the hydrant from leaking when damaged by collision.
         (b)   All fire hydrants, public or private shall be located not more
than eight feet from the edge of a paved area accessible by a Fire Department
pumping apparatus, unless in a construction area.
      (3)   Out-of-service hydrants.
         (a)   Fire hydrants that are out of service should be covered with a
bag indicating “Out of Service”.
         (b)   Nonfunctional hydrants shall be made functional or removed.
(Prior Code, § 38-100) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.105 REQUIRED WATER SUPPLY FOR FIRE PROTECTION.
   In setting the requirements for fire-flow, the Fire Prevention Chief shall
use the provisions set forth in 675 I.A.C. 22, as a guide. Notwithstanding the
provisions of this section, a reduction in required fire-flow, of up to 75%, is
allowed when the building is provided with an approved automatic sprinkler
system. The resulting fire-flow shall not be less than 1,000 gallons per minute
at 20 psi residual utilizing one test hydrant and one flow hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 38-101) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.106 EMERGENCY RADIO RESPONDER COVERAGE (ERRC).
   (A)   The city requires that certain newly constructed buildings have
approved levels of emergency radio signal strength (relative to existing levels
of public radio coverage available at the exterior). Where the design of the
building reduces the level of coverage inside of the building below minimum
performance levels, a distributed antenna system, signal booster or other
method approved by the city’s Fire Department (WFD) and Hamilton County Public
Safety Communications Center (HCPSCC) shall be provided.
   (B)   The following building types shall require emergency radio coverage
testing prior to certificate of occupancy:
      (1)   Any building with one or more basements or below grade building
levels;
      (2)   Any underground building;
      (3)   Any building more than five stories in height; or
      (4)   Any building 50,000 square feet or larger.
         (a)   Testing. Documentation of testing by a person in possession of a
current FCC license, or a current technician certification issued by the
Associated Public Safety Communications Officials International (APCO) shall be
provided to WFD prior to issuance of certificate of occupancy.
            1.   Testing shall take place after installation of all roofing
systems; exterior walls, glazing and siding/cladding; and all permanent
interiors walls, partitions, ceilings and glazing.
            2.   If the building fails the test, a distributed antenna system
with FCC certified signal booster or other approved system shall be installed
to achieve the required level of radio coverage. Plans and specifications for
ERRC systems must be approved by WFD and HCPSCC prior to installation.
         (b)   Hamilton County Public Safety Communications Center (HCPSCC)
approval. FCC rules require anyone who has installed or will be installing a
device that amplifies and rebroadcasts a public safety frequency must have an
agreement with the public safety radio system owner. HCPSCC is the owner of the
emergency radio frequency used by WFD and therefore must approve any
amplification of these frequencies. HCPSCC has specific criteria that the
system must be met and a legal agreement that parties must sign. Contact the
technical services manager at Hamilton County Public Safety Communications
Center (HCPSCC), 317-776-4401 for forms and information.
         (c)   Technical criteria. Please contact the technical services
manager at Hamilton County Public Safety Communications Center (HCPSCC), 317-
776-4401 for information related to frequencies used, radio sites and the like
necessary for modeling or designing radio coverage or amplification.
         (d)   Plan submittal, inspection and acceptance testing (when a system
is required). A set of plans for installation of a radio signal enhancement
system shall be submitted to Westfield Fire Department Division of Fire and
Life safety and the city’s Building Department. A final acceptance test report
shall be provided to the division of fire and life safety prior to issuance of
certificate of occupancy. Final approval from HCPSCC is required prior to
placing any system into service.
         (e)   Coordination with Building Department. WFD determines when an
ERRC system is required and has final authority for all requirements and
testing. An ERRC system may only be waived if a determination is made by the
Division of fire and life safety. It is important that applicants installing a
system coordinate with the city’s Building Department in addition to WFD.
(Prior Code, § 38-102) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS
§ 34.120 CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   Plans for fire sprinkler system, fire alarm system, a kitchen hood
suppression system and high-piled storage arrangements shall be submitted for
review to the city’s Building and Planning Departments for review by the
Westfield Fire Department Fire and Life Safety Division.
   (B)   Each applicable submittal must contain the following information:
      (1)   Sprinkler/standpipe systems:
         (a)   Accurate shop drawings of the system;
         (b)   Hydraulic calculations;
         (c)   Product specification sheets; and
         (d)   State of Indiana construction design release if required by 675
I.A.C. 12-6.
      (2)   Fire alarm systems:
         (a)   Accurate shop drawings of the system;
         (b)   Battery calculations;
         (c)   Product specifications; and
         (d)   State of Indiana construction design release if required by 675
I.A.C. 12-6.
      (3)   Requirements for kitchen hood fire suppression system submissions:
         (a)   Hood listing and installation documentation;
         (b)   Schematic of the fire suppression system installation and
protected equipment;
         (c)   Product specification sheets of the nozzles, tanks, piping,
agent and other related items; and
         (d)   State of Indiana construction design release if required by 675
I.A.C. 12-6.
(Prior Code, § 38-121) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
SMOKE DETECTORS AND SMOKE ALARMS
§ 34.135 DWELLINGS; SMOKE DETECTOR AND SMOKE ALARM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Smoke detectors or smoke alarms required by 675 I.A.C. 13 or 675
I.A.C. 14 shall have a power supply as specified by the respective code. All
other residential smoke detectors or smoke alarms may be powered by an AC power
source or a battery. If the smoke detector or smoke alarm is solely AC powered
and the manufacturer does not supply installation specifications, it shall be
directly attached to a junction box with power supplied either from a dedicated
branch circuit or the unswitched portion of a branch circuit also used for
power and lighting, such installation shall be in accordance with 675 I.A.C.
17. If the smoke detector or smoke alarm is solely powered by a battery, such
battery shall be a non-removable, non-replaceable battery capable of powering
the smoke detector or smoke alarm for a minimum of ten years. For any dwelling
unit requiring a non-removable, non-replaceable battery capable of powering the
smoke detector or smoke alarm for a minimum of ten years as provided in this
division (A), it shall satisfy the requirements of this division (A) that any
noncompliant smoke detector or smoke alarm installed in such dwelling unit
prior to August 1, 2014, be replaced with a compliant smoke detector or smoke
alarm at such time such noncompliant smoke detector or smoke alarm is replaced
for any reason. Smoke detectors and fire alarm devices that are connected to a
panel as part of a monitored fire alarm system, or other devices that use a
low-power radio frequency wireless communication signal are exempt from the
battery requirements of this section.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with or remove any smoke
detector or smoke alarm, except when it is necessary for maintenance or
inspection purposes. Any smoke detector or smoke alarm removed for repair,
replacement or local remodeling shall be reinstalled or replaced so that it is
in place and operable.
      (1)   Rental dwelling units. Each owner or manager or rental agent of the
owner is responsible for the installation of required smoke detectors or smoke
alarms and the repair or replacement of a required smoke detector or smoke
alarm within two business days after the owner, manager or rental agent is
given written notification of the need to repair or replace the smoke detector
or smoke alarm. Residents shall inspect and test the smoke detector or smoke
alarm in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions at least monthly.
      (2)   Owner dwelling units. Each owner is responsible for the
installation of required smoke detectors or smoke alarms and the repair or
replacement of a required smoke detector or smoke alarm within two business
days of finding it inoperable. An owner shall inspect and test the smoke
detector or smoke alarm for power in accordance with manufacturer’s
instructions at least monthly.
   (C)   A person, company or corporation violating I.C. 22-11-18-3, I.C. 22-
11-18-3.5 and provisions of this subchapter shall be subject to penalties as
specified in I.C. 22-11-18-5 and §
34.003 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 38-131) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
MEANS OF EGRESS
§ 34.150 MEANS OF EGRESS ILLUMINATION AND EXIT SIGNS.
   (A)   Equipment providing emergency power for the means of egress
illumination and exit signs shall be maintained in an operable condition.
   (B)   An activation test of emergency lighting equipment shall be completed
monthly. The activation test shall ensure the emergency light activates
automatically upon normal electrical disconnect and stays sufficiently
illuminated for a minimum of 30 seconds.
   (C)   For battery-powered emergency lighting, a power test of the emergency
lighting equipment shall be completed annually. The power test shall operate
the emergency lighting for a minimum of 90 minutes and shall remain
sufficiently illuminated for the duration of the test.
(Prior Code, § 38-141) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.151 MEANS OF EGRESS CONTINUITY.
   Any member of the Police or Fire Department who shall discover any fire
escape or means of egress encumbered or obstructed in any manner shall report
such condition to the Fire and Life Safety Division and the Fire Marshal shall
immediately notify the owner or occupant to remove such encumbrance or
obstacle.
(Prior Code, § 38-142) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.152 EXIT STAIRWELL IDENTIFICATION.
   Each required stairwell in a building shall be identified with a letter and
number. The letter shall start with A and the number will be the floor level.
Example stairwell A1 would be stairwell A on the first floor; Stairwell A2
would be stairwell A on the second floor. Each stairwell will have signage on
the interior and exterior of each stairwell door indicating the stairwell
letter/number designation. The stairwell with the roof access shall be labeled
as well on each floor.
(Prior Code, § 38-143) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
§ 34.165 PORTABLE FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
   (A)   Portable fire extinguishers shall be installed in accordance with and
where required by the Indiana Fire Code and shall also be installed where
required by this section.
   (B)   Except for private dwellings, portable fire extinguishers shall be
installed and maintained in all occupancies.
(Prior Code, § 38-151) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.166 REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL KITCHEN EXHAUST EQUIPMENT AND FIRE
PROTECTION EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Any new installation or alteration of existing kitchen fire
suppression equipment shall be inspected by the Fire and Life Safety Division
prior to the kitchen cooking equipment being placed in-service.
   (B)   The installing company shall:
      (1)   Notify the Fire and Life Safety Division at least 48 hours in
advance of the system being completed for system testing; and
      (2)   Provide written documentation to the Fire and Life Safety Division
that states the system has been inspected, signed by both the fire prevention
inspector and the installation company’s representative. This form is to be
kept on file with the Fire and Life Safety Division.
(Prior Code, § 38-152) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.167 UNLAWFUL INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT, BARRICADES,
DEVICES, SIGNS AND SEALS.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to do or permit to be done any of the
following acts:
   (A)   Key box access and fire equipment keys. To make or cause or permit to
be made or have in his or her possession any key for any key box emergency
access system, city’s Fire Department equipment, house or building used by the
city’s Fire Department, except upon the written order of the Fire Chief, or to
fail or refuse to surrender possession of any such key upon demand of the Fire
Chief;
   (B)   Tampering with fire protection systems or equipment. To tamper,
molest, remove or in any manner interfere with, damage or disturb any part of a
fire protection system, apparatus, fire equipment, secured gates, barricades,
devices, signs and seals in use in the city;
   (C)   Injuring fire hose. To drive any motor vehicle over any fire hose laid
in any street or the city’s Fire Department access road in the vicinity of any
fire or while in use for any other purpose, or in any other way interfere with
the use of such hose; or
   (D)   Opening fire hydrants. To use or operate any public or private
hydrants or valves connected to a water system intended for fire suppression
purposes without written permission from the water utility or the city’s Fire
Department. Notwithstanding the provisions of this division (D), employees of
the water utility who are authorized, members of the city’s Fire Department,
owners of private hydrants, and members of a duly recognized facility fire
brigade may operate hydrants and valves as part of their assigned duties.
(Prior Code, § 38-153) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
FIRE ALARM/DETECTION SYSTEMS
§ 34.180 SCOPE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter is applicable to the installation and maintenance of all
manual and automatic fire alarm systems in new and existing structures, as well
as faulty and/or false alarms, and delayed notification of manual or automatic
fire alarm systems.
(Prior Code, § 38-161) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.181 NOTIFICATION UPON FIRE ALARM ACTIVATION.
   (A)   The city’s Fire Department shall be notified immediately upon the
activation of any fire alarm, except in the case of a supervised fire drill,
periodic testing or maintenance of a system.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, such notice shall be required if
the alarm is directly transmitted by private line.
   (C)   The monitoring company shall notify Hamilton County 911 Center when
the alarm is received at all times except as stated in division (A) above.
   (D)   Upon the receipt of a supervisory signal from a fire alarm or fire
suppression system, the central station shall perform the requirements of
“Disposition of Signals” as set forth in 675 I.A.C. 28-1-28.
   (E)   Upon the receipt of a trouble signal from a fire alarm or fire
suppression system, the central station shall perform the requirements of
“Disposition of Signals” as set forth in 675 I.A.C. 28-1-28.
(Prior Code, § 38-162) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.182 FAULTY ALARMS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXCESSIVE FALSE ALARMS. It shall be unlawful for any person or entity who
owns or controls property in the city on which an alarm system is installed to
issue, cause to be issued, or permit the issuance of more than three false
alarms in a 12-month period. A person or entity who owns or controls property
on which the alarm system is installed shall receive a warning from the city
for each false alarm. There shall be no distinction between fire and security
false alarms.
   FALSE ALARMS. The willful and knowing initiation or transmission of a
signal, message or other notification of an event of fire when no such danger
exists.
   PENALTY. The person or entity in violation of this chapter shall pay as a
penalty, this sum shall be subject to the fee/fine structure set by the city.
(Prior Code, § 38-163) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 34.195 CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-11-14-6(d), I.C. 22-11-14-10.5 , and this chapter,
consumer fireworks may only be used in the city and the township during the
days and times listed below:
      (1)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on June
29 through July 3 and July 5 through July 9; however, regardless of what time
sunset occurs, no later than 11:00 p.m.; and
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4 and
December 31.
   (B)   Use of fireworks is restricted to property owned or authorized for use
by the user.
   (C)   Fireworks use is not permitted on city owned property, parks, roads,
easements or other publicly owned property without specific approval by the
city’s Fire Chief or his or her designee.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the Fire Chief, or his or her
designee, from preventing the use of fireworks due to weather conditions or any
other safety concern.
   (E)   Any violations of this section shall be punished by a fine which shall
be the current fee /fine structure set by the city’s code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 38-171) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.196 VACANT OR ABANDONED BUILDINGS; PLACARDING.
   The Fire and Life Safety Division may implement a program for identifying
and placarding vacant or abandoned Class 1 structures that pose an unreasonable
risk hazard to firefighters who forcibly enter a building or structure for
controlling or extinguishing a fire. Unreasonable risk hazards shall include,
but not be limited to, structure deficiencies such as open roof(s), missing
steps or stair(s), holes in floor(s), open wall(s) or shaft(s) or the illegal
removal of structure components of a building or structure that may cause an
entanglement or premature collapse hazard for firefighters.
(Prior Code, § 38-172) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.197 UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS; NOTIFICATION.
   Any person who supervises, manages or directs the installation,
retrofitting, removal or closure of underground storage tanks shall notify the
Fire and Life Safety Division 14 days prior to commencement of work; however,
this requirement shall not apply in emergency repair work where 14-day
notification is not possible.
(Prior Code, § 38-173) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.198 TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   Any time a new development is required to install a traffic control signal
device, or upgrade an existing signal, the developer shall be responsible for
installing the current emergency vehicle preemption signaling equipment used by
the city’s Fire Department on the new signal.
(Prior Code, § 38-174) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
§ 34.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Anyone who intentionally deviates from §
34.080 shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 38-81) (Ord. 22-01, passed 2-14-2022)
CHAPTER 35: LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Personnel manual
   
35.02   Firearm training of civilian persons; procedures; costs
Reserve Police Officers
   
35.15   Authorization
   
35.16   Number of officers
   
35.17   Appointment
   
35.18   Powers and duties
   
35.19   Members not eligible for pension program
   
35.20   Training and probationary period
Merit System
   
35.30   Establishment
   
35.31   Commissioners
   
35.32   Commissioner requirements
   
35.33   Commissioner terms
   
35.34   Commission rules
   
35.35   Elections
   
35.36   Appointment and removal of department member
   
35.37   Department member qualifications
   
35.38   Department member application; tests; vacancies; appointments
   
35.39   Probationary period upon appointment
   
35.40   Police Chief and Deputy Chief
   
35.41   Promotions; performance ratings
   
35.42   Discipline by the Commission; appeal
   
35.43   Summary discipline by the Chief; review
   
35.44   Retirement age
   
35.45   Temporary leave of absence
   
35.46   Requirement regarding certified employees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 PERSONNEL MANUAL.
   The city hereby adopts policies, procedures, rules and regulations for the
administration of the City Marshal’s Department as contained in the
Department’s personnel manual, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 42-1)
Statutory reference:
   City Marshal, see I.C. 36-4-7-1 et seq.
   Police leaves of absence, see I.C. 36-8-5-1 et seq.
   Police Officers’ and Firefighters’ Pension and Disability Fund, see I.C. 36-
8-8-1 et seq.
§ 35.02 FIREARM TRAINING OF CIVILIAN PERSONS; PROCEDURES; COSTS.
   The following standards for retired officers firearm qualifications are
hereby adopted by the city.
   (A)   A RETIRED OFFICER shall be defined as a person who was serving with
the Police Department at the time of their retirement as a police officer with
20 years active duty to their credit.
   (B)   Any request for qualification for firearm training shall be conducted
at the convenience of the Police Department’s training officer as his or her
schedule allows. However, any request made for qualification shall be done
within one calendar year.
   (C)   The standards to be applied for any individual to be qualified by the
Police Department shall be the same standards in place for active duty police
officers at the time of the qualification attempt.
   (D)   The person requesting to be qualified shall supply all necessary
ammunition, safety equipment and firearm.
   (E)   The fee for each attempt to qualify for firearm training pursuant to
this section shall be no less than $500, within purview of Council to modify if
desired. Said amount to be paid into the Police Training Fund prior to any
attempt to qualify.
(Prior Code, § 42-2) (Ord. 06-22, passed 6-12-2006)
RESERVE POLICE OFFICERS
§ 35.15 AUTHORIZATION.
   The appointment of reserve police officers of the city is hereby authorized.
(Prior Code, § 42-31)
Statutory reference:
   Police reserve officers, see I.C. 36-8-3-20
§ 35.16 NUMBER OF OFFICERS.
   The number of reserve police officers shall be five.
(Prior Code, § 42-32)
§ 35.17 APPOINTMENT.
   Reserve police officers shall be appointed by the Marshal of the city.
(Prior Code, § 42-33)
§ 35.18 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Reserve police officers may not be members of the regular police force but
shall have all of the police powers of such members except as limited by rules
of the City Marshal. The Marshal is hereby authorized and directed to adopt
rules delineating the authority of reserve police officers.
(Prior Code, § 42-34)
§ 35.19 MEMBERS NOT ELIGIBLE FOR PENSION PROGRAM.
   Reserve police officers may not participate in any pension program provided
for regular members of the city police force.
(Prior Code, § 42-35)
§ 35.20 TRAINING AND PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   The City Marshal is hereby authorized and directed to adopt rules of
training and probationary period for reserve police officers. No reserve police
officer shall be appointed until he or she has completed the training and
probationary period specified by the rules.
(Prior Code, § 42-36)
MERIT SYSTEM
§ 35.30 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3.5 et seq., a merit system is hereby established for
the City of Westfield Police Department ("Department"). The merit system will
be administered by a commission to be known as the Westfield Police Department
Merit Commission ("Commission"), pursuant to requirements set forth in I.C. 36-
8-3.5 et seq. and this subchapter. Unless otherwise stated herein, the
provisions of I.C. 36-8-3.5 et seq., as may be updated or revised from time to
time, will govern the Department's merit system and the Commission. For
purposes of this subchapter, the definitions established in I.C. 36-8-3.5-0.2
through I.C. 36-8-3.5-0.5 are adopted and incorporated herein.
(Ord. 24-59, passed 8-26-2024)
§ 35.31 COMMISSIONERS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3.5-6, the Commission shall consist of five
Commissioners, including two persons, who must be of different political
parties, appointed by the Mayor; one person appointed by the Council; and two
persons, who must be of different political parties, elected by the active
Department members.
(Ord. 24-59, passed 8-26-2024)
§ 35.32 COMMISSIONER REQUIREMENTS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3.5-6, the following requirements shall apply to each
Commissioner:
   (A)   Each Commissioner must be:
      (1)   At least 21 years of age;
      (2)   Of good moral character; and
      (3)   A legal resident of the city for at least three consecutive years
immediately preceding his or her term.
   (B)   A Commissioner may not be an active member of a police or fire
department or agency, and not more than two Commissioners may be past members
of a police or fire department or agency.
   (C)   A Commissioner may not receive any remuneration as salary from the
city.
   (D)   Each Commissioner shall take an oath of office to conscientiously
discharge his or her duties, a signed copy of which shall be filed with the
Board of Public Works and Safety ("Safety Board").
   (E)   The Council shall, upon the recommendation of the Safety Board,
determine a per diem to be paid to each Commissioner for each day of actual
service for the Commission.
(Ord. 24-59, passed 8-26-2024)
§ 35.33 COMMISSIONER TERMS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3.5-7, the term of a Commissioner is four years.
However, one of the Mayor's initial selections and one of the Department's
initial selections shall only serve for two years. Thereafter, terms for said
selections shall be four years.
   (B)   A vacancy on the Commission shall be filled within 30 days by the
appointing or electing authority, and such selection is for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
   (C)   A Commissioner serves at the pleasure of the appointing or electing
authority and may be removed at any time pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3.5-7.
(Ord. 24-59, passed 8-26-2024)
§ 35.34 COMMISSION RULES.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3.5-9, within 30 days after the Commission is
selected, it shall adopt rules concerning governance, including rules regarding
the time and place of regular monthly meetings and special meetings necessary
to transact business of the Commission.
   (B)   A majority of the Commissioners constitutes a quorum, and a majority
vote of all of the Commissioners is necessary to transact Commission business.
   (C)   Each year, the Commissioners shall select from among the Commissioners
a President, Vice President, and Secretary.
   (D)   The Commission shall keep a permanent record of its proceedings.
   (E)   The Commission shall submit a proposed annual budget to the city as
other city budgets are submitted. The Council shall include in its budget an
amount sufficient for the necessary expenses of the Commission.
   (F)   Within 90 days after the Commission is selected, it shall adopt rules
governing the Department pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3.5-10 ("Rules"). Before
adoption of such Rules, notice must be given and a public hearing must be held
pursuant to and in accordance with I.C. 36-8-3.5-10(b) – (e) and 5-3-1. The
Rules may be amended from time to time.
   (G)   The Department shall print all Rules and furnish a copy to each
Department member.
   (H)   Amendments to the Rules take effect 30 days after adoption if copies
have been furnished to all Department members within that period. Otherwise,
they do not take effect until copies are furnished to all Department members.
(Ord. 24-59, passed 8-26-2024)
§ 35.35 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3.5-8, an election to be made by the active
Department members shall be made at a meeting called by the Safety Board for
that purpose. The Safety Board shall give at least three weeks notice of the
meeting to all active Department members by posting the notice in prominent
locations in stations of the Department. The notice shall be read during shift
roll calls, and must state the time, place, and purpose of the meeting.
   (B)   Only active Department members may attend the meeting, and at the
meeting one Department member shall be selected as Chair.
   (C)   All voting must be by secret written ballot.
   (D)   Other procedures for holding the meeting may be determined by the
Safety Board and shall be posted in accordance with division (A).
(Ord. 24-59, passed 8-26-2024)
§ 35.36 APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF DEPARTMENT MEMBER.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3.5-11, the Commission may appoint and remove
Department members, except for a member in an upper level policymaking
position. The Mayor shall appoint and may remove a member in an upper level
policymaking position.
   (B)   The removal of a member from an upper level policymaking position is
removal from rank only, not removal from the Department. When a member is
removed, the member shall be appointed by the Commission to the rank in the
Department that the member held at the time of the member's upper level
appointment or to any rank to which the member had been promoted during the
member's tenure in the upper level position. If such a rank is not open, the
member is entitled to the pay of that rank and shall be promoted to that rank
as soon as an opening is available.
(Ord. 24-59, passed 8-26-2024)
§ 35.37 DEPARTMENT MEMBER QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3.5-12, a Department member applicant must be:
      (1)   A citizen of the United States;
      (2)   A high school graduate or equivalent; and
      (3)   At least 21 years of age and under 40 years of age. The age
requirements do not apply to someone previously employed as a member of the
Department.
   (B)   A person may not be appointed, reappointed, or reinstated to the
Department if the person has a felony conviction on the person's record.
(Ord. 24-59, passed 8-26-2024)
§ 35.38 DEPARTMENT MEMBER APPLICATION; TESTS; VACANCIES; APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3.5-12, applications for appointment or
reappointment to the Department must be filed with the Commission. An applicant
must produce satisfactory proof of the date and place of the applicant's birth.
The Commission shall provide for a lateral transfer application process in its
Rules.
   (B)   Applicants for appointment or reappointment to the Department must
pass the general aptitude test required under I.C. 36-8-3.2-3.5. The general
aptitude test shall be conducted and administered pursuant to the requirements
set forth in I.C. 36-8-3.5-12. General aptitude test results shall be filed
with the Commission, and the Commission shall reject any applicant who the
Commission finds lacks the proper qualifications.
   (C)   Department applicants will then be rated on selection criteria and
testing methods adopted by the Commission, pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3.5-12. The
Commission shall place the names of applicants with passing scores on an
eligibility list by the order of their scores and shall certify the list to the
Safety Board. If an applicant for original appointment reaches the applicant's
fortieth birthday, the applicant's name shall be removed from the eligibility
list. Applicants remain on the list for two years from the date of
certification. After two years, a person may reapply as a Department applicant.
   (D)   When a vacancy occurs in the Department, upon written request of the
Chief of the City of Westfield Police Department ("Chief"), the Commission
shall administer the physical agility test required by I.C. 36-8-3.2-3.5 to the
applicant having the highest score on the eligibility list. If the appointed
applicant successfully completes the physical agility test, the applicant shall
then be enrolled as a member of the Department only if: (1) the applicant is
still of good character; and (2) the applicant passes the required examinations
identified in I.C. 36-8-3.2-6 (public safety officer employment standards) and
I.C. 36-8-8-19 (statewide physical and mental examinations).
(Ord. 24-59, passed 8-26-2024)
§ 35.39 PROBATIONARY PERIOD UPON APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3.5-12, an initial appointment to the Department
is probationary for a period not to exceed one year.
   (B)   If the Commission finds, upon recommendation of the Department during
the probationary period, that the conduct or capacity of the probationary
member is not satisfactory, the Commission shall notify the member in writing
that the member (1) is being reprimanded; (2) is being suspended; or (3) will
not receive a permanent appointment.
   (C)   If a member is notified that the member will not receive a permanent
appointment, the member's employment immediately ceases. Otherwise, at the
expiration of the probationary period, the member is considered regularly
employed.
(Ord. 24-59, passed 8-26-2024)
§ 35.40 POLICE CHIEF AND DEPUTY CHIEF.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3.5-11, the Mayor shall appoint and may remove a
member in an upper level policymaking position, including the Chief and Deputy
Chief of the Department.
   (B)   To be appointed Chief or Deputy Chief of the Department, an applicant
must meet the qualifications in I.C. 36-8-4-6.5.
(Ord. 24-59, passed 8-26-2024)
§ 35.41 PROMOTIONS; PERFORMANCE RATINGS.
   (A)   The Commission shall adopt rules governing promotions within the
Department in accordance with the requirements set forth in I.C. 36-8-3.5-13.
The following factors will be considered, with the weight of each to be
determined by the Commission: (1) written competitive examination score; (2)
oral competitive interview score; (3) performance record; and (4) length of
service. Neither the member's length of service nor the oral interview score
may comprise more than 20% each of the rating.
   (B)   Promotions to a rank must be from the next lower rank. In addition,
the member being promoted must have served at the lower rank for a certain
period of time, to be determined by the Commission.
   (C)   Only members who are qualified in rank and length of service may be
given the competitive examinations and placed on an eligibility list. The
eligibility list for a position consists of members who have been placed on the
list in order of their cumulative score on all rating factors. The eligibility
list shall be maintained for two years from the date of certification, after
which time the list shall be retired and a new list shall be established. The
retired list shall be kept for five years and then destroyed.
   (D)   Written competitive examinations shall be conducted, and appeals may
be filed, pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3.5-14.
   (E)   The Commission shall adopt rules for determining a performance rating
for Department members, pursuant to and in accordance with I.C. 36-8-3.5-15.
Ratings shall be submitted to the Chief and kept on file in the Chief's office
under the Chief's supervision, and the Chief shall notify each member in
writing of his or her rating. Appeals may be filed pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3.5-
15.
   (F)   When a vacancy in rank occurs, the Commission shall certify to the
Chief the three members with the highest scores on the eligibility list for
that particular rank. Within six months the Commission, upon the recommendation
of the Chief, shall promote one of those Department members to fill the vacant
position.
   (G)   All promotions are probationary for a period not to exceed one year.
At the end of the period, a probationary member's superior shall review the
member's performance and recommend to the Commission whether the promotion be
made permanent or revoked. The Commission shall prepare a rating chart for the
superior's use in making the report. The Commission shall review the report and
decide what action should be taken. The probationary member is entitled to
counsel or another representative of the member's choice, to be heard on any
matter detrimental to the member in the superior's report, and to appeal a
decision not to make the promotion permanent, pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3.5-16. If
a promotion is revoked, the member may not be returned to a rank lower than he
or she held before the probationary promotion.
(Ord. 24-59, passed 8-26-2024)
§ 35.42 DISCIPLINE BY THE COMMISSION; APPEAL.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 36-8-3.5-17, the Commission may take the
following disciplinary actions against a regular member of the Department:
      (1)   Suspension with or without pay;
      (2)   Demotion; or
      (3)   Dismissal.
   (B)   A member may be disciplined by the Commission for the following:
      (1)   Conviction of a crime; or
      (2)   Breach of discipline, including:
         (a)   Neglect of duty;
         (b)   Violation of Commission rules;
         (c)   Neglect or disobedience of orders:
         (d)   Continuing incapacity;
         (e)   Absence without leave;
         (f)   Immoral conduct;
         (g)   Conduct injurious to the public peace or welfare;
         (h)   Conduct unbecoming a member; or
         (i)   Furnishing information to an applicant for appointment or
promotion that gives that person an advantage over another applicant.
   (C)   If the Chief, after an investigation, prefers charges against a
Department member for an alleged breach of discipline (including a civilian
complaint of an alleged breach of discipline for immoral conduct, conduct
injurious to the public peace or welfare, or conduct unbecoming a member), a
hearing shall be conducted upon request of the member. The hearing shall be
conducted, and required notice shall be drafted and served, pursuant to the
requirements set forth in I.C. 36-8-3.5-17. A decision to discipline a member
may be made only if the preponderance of the evidence presented at the hearing
indicates such a course of action.
   (D)   A member who is aggrieved by the decision of a person or board
designated to conduct a disciplinary hearing may appeal to the Commission
within ten days of the decision. On appeal, the Commission shall review the
record and either affirm, modify, or reverse the decision on the basis of the
record and such oral or written testimony that the Commission determines,
including additional or newly discovered evidence.
   (E)   The Commission, or the designated person or board, shall keep a record
of proceedings in cases of suspension, demotion, or dismissal, and shall give a
free copy of the transcript to the member upon request if an appeal is filed.
   (F)   A member who is aggrieved by a decision of the Commission to suspend
the member for a period greater than ten calendar days, demote the member, or
dismiss the member, may appeal to the Circuit Court or Superior Court of
Hamilton County, Indiana. The appeal shall be made pursuant to the Indiana
rules of trial procedure and I.C. 36-8-3.5-18.
   (G)   If a member is suspended under this section, the member is entitled to
the member's remuneration and allowances for insurance benefits to which the
member was entitled before the suspension. The Commission shall determine if a
member of the Department who is suspended in excess of five days shall continue
to receive the member's salary during suspension. In addition, the city may
provide the member's allowance for any other fringe benefits to which the
member was entitled before the suspension.
(Ord. 24-59, passed 8-26-2024)
§ 35.43 SUMMARY DISCIPLINE BY THE CHIEF; REVIEW.
   (A)   Pursuant to the limitations set forth in I.C. 36-8-3.5-19, the Chief
may, without a hearing, reprimand or suspend a member without pay for a maximum
of five working days. For purposes of this section, eight hours of paid time
constitutes one working day.
   (B)   If the Chief reprimands a member in writing or suspends a member, the
Chief shall, within 48 hours, notify the Commission in writing of the action
and the reasons for the action.
   (C)   A Department member reprimanded in writing or suspended under this
section may, within 48 hours after receiving notice of such reprimand or
suspension, request in writing that the Commission review the reprimand or
suspension and either uphold or reverse the Chief's decision. At its
discretion, the Commission may hold a hearing during this review, pursuant to
the requirements set forth in I.C. 36-8-3.5-19, and the Commission shall follow
all procedures set forth therein. If the Chief’s decision is reversed, the
individual who was suspended is entitled to any wages withheld as a result of
the suspension.
(Ord. 24-59, passed 8-26-2024)
§ 35.44 RETIREMENT AGE.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3.5-20, a member of the Department shall retire from
the Department when the member reaches the member's seventieth birthday.
However, a member of the Department who is 70 years of age or older when this
subchapter takes effect may serve until the end of calendar year 2025.
(Ord. 24-59, passed 8-26-2024)
§ 35.45 TEMPORARY LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 36-8-3.5-21, if it is necessary for the Safety
Board to reduce the number of Department members, the reduction shall be made
by granting a temporary leave of absence, without pay or financial obligation
to the city, to the appropriate number of Department members. The last
Department member appointed shall be put on leave first, with other Department
members also put on leave in reverse hiring order, until the desired level is
achieved.
   (B)   If the Department is increased in number again, the Department members
who have been granted leaves of absence under this section shall be reinstated
before an applicant on the eligibility list is appointed to the Department. The
reinstatements begin with the last member granted a leave.
   (C)   A Department member on leave of absence shall keep the Commission
advised of the Department member's current address. A Department member shall
be informed of the Department member's reinstatement by written notice. Within
ten calendar days after a Department member receives notice of reinstatement,
the Department member must advise the Commission that the Department member
accepts reinstatement and will be able to commence employment on the date
specified in the notice. All reinstatement rights granted to a Department
member terminate upon the Department member's failure to accept reinstatement
within that period.
(Ord. 24-59, passed 8-26-2024)
§ 35.46 REQUIREMENT REGARDING CERTIFIED EMPLOYEES.
   If the Department has at least one employee who, as a condition of
employment, holds a valid certification issued under I.C. 16-31-3 by the
Indiana Emergency Medical Services Commission, the Department shall follow the
procedures and regulations established in I.C. 36-8-3.5-19.3.
(Ord. 24-59, passed 8-26-2024)
CHAPTER 36: ELECTIONS
Section
   
36.01   Election district boundaries established
§ 36.01 ELECTION DISTRICT BOUNDARIES ESTABLISHED.
   The city shall be represented by seven Council members elected from five
updated election districts and two at large elected by the entire city as
evidenced and in conformity by Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 22-49, adopted
October 24, 2022, and incorporated by reference herein. Said split in any
census block shall be pursuant to I.C. 36-4-6-4.
(Prior Code, § 30-1) (Ord. 01-12, passed 10-22-2001; Ord. 12-47, passed 12-10-
2012; Ord. 22-49, passed 10-24-2022)
Statutory reference:
   City legislative body, see I.C. 36-4-2-5
   Districts established in ordinance of incorporation of city, see I.C. 36-4-
1-10.1
   Election districts generally, see I.C. 36-4-2-4.1
   Election of City Clerk-Treasurer, see I.C. 36-4-6-4
   Municipal elections in small towns, see I.C. 3-10-7-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 37: FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
37.001   Credit card policy for city employees and elected officials
   
37.002   Adoption of internal control policy
   
37.003   Municipal food and beverage tax
   
37.004   Purchase of a blanket bond and crime insurance policy
Municipal Promotion
   
37.015   Appropriations authorized
   
37.016   Prior approval
Warrants
   
37.030   Appropriation of funds
   
37.031   Issuance of warrant
   
37.032   Approval of claims
   
37.033   Warrants for payment of claims
Waiver of Fees
   
37.045   Fees eligible to be waived
   
37.046   Guidelines
   
37.047   Waiving of fees for public schools, churches, Westfield government,
Washington Township of Hamilton County government and Hamilton County
government
   
37.048   Partial waiving of fees for Hamilton County parks and recreation
building projects
   
37.049   Waiving of fees for organizations constructing sports and recreation
facilities on the property owned by the city or the Westfield Washington
Schools
Fixed Asset Capitalization Policy
   
37.060   General
   
37.061   Capital assets responsibilities
   
37.062   General policy
   
37.063   Definitions and provisions
   
37.064   Capital assets categories
   
37.065   Capital assets thresholds
   
37.066   Capital asset threshold table for capitalization/depreciation
   
37.067   Capital asset cost and valuation
   
37.068   Capital assets reporting in financial statements
   
37.069   Estimated useful life of city assets table
   
37.070   Capital assets purchased with grant funds
   
37.071   Assets acquisition, transfer and disposal
   
37.072   Reporting of fraud
   
37.073   Assets other than capital assets defined
   
37.074   Capital asset coding
   
37.075   Capital asset reductions
   
37.076   Reporting procedures
   
37.077   Conflict with state law
   
37.078   Policy for reporting material variances
Investment Policy for City Funds Received from the Sale of Water and Wastewater
Assets
   
37.090   Scope and intent
   
37.091   Purpose of this investment policy
   
37.092   Objectives of the investment policy
   
37.093   Delegation of authority
   
37.094   Investment instruments
   
37.095   Investment parameters
   
37.096   Safekeeping and custody
   
37.097   Performance and reporting
   
37.098   Investment policy duration and review
Allocation of Local Option Income Tax Revenues
   
37.110   Distribution
Investment Policy
   
37.125   Purpose
   
37.126   Scope
   
37.127   General objectives
   
37.128   Standards of care
   
37.129   Authorized financial institutions and brokers/dealers
   
37.130   Suitable and unauthorized investments
   
37.131   Investment constraints
   
37.132   Reporting
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.001 CREDIT CARD POLICY FOR CITY EMPLOYEES AND ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The chief administrative officer is hereby authorized to procure
credit cards for use by all elected officials and department heads for expenses
that are incurred in the business in the name of the city. Said cards shall be
at no annual fee.
   (B)   All department heads are also authorized to approve other expenses by
their departmental employees in the course of city business. These expenses
include but shall not be limited to community events, educational events,
travel and lodging expenses, memberships and any other expense deemed by the
department head to be necessary in the carrying out of the business of the
city.
   (C)   The chief administrative officer is hereby authorized to draft
policies and procedures for the proper use of city credit cards by elected
officials and department heads in the performance of their duties.
   (D)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall administer the credit card charges as
all other claims and shall record them in the proper and prescribed manner.
   (E)   (1)   The city hereby adopts the new Purchasing Card Policy and
Procedure Manual, attached to Resolution 23-113 and incorporated herein by
reference, which amends and replaces the Purchasing Card Policy and Procedure
Manual adopted in Resolution 11-21.
      (2)   All purchasing card holders shall receive and acknowledge in
writing the terms of the new Purchasing Card Policy and Procedure Manual in the
form attached hereto.
(Prior Code, § 2-206) (Ord. 08-03, passed 1-11-2008; Res. 23-113, passed 11-13-
2023)
§ 37.002 ADOPTION OF INTERNAL CONTROL POLICY.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts the internal control policy attached hereto and
incorporated herein as Exhibit A to Ordinance 16-22.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to ensure that all personnel receive
training concerning the internal control procedures adopted and approved herein
prior to June 30, 2016.
   (C)   The city hereby adopts a materiality threshold of $5,000 for purposes
of the internal control procedures adopted and approved herein.
(Prior Code, § 2-207) (Ord. 16-22, passed 6-27-2016; Ord. 22-45, passed 10-24-
2022)
Editor’s note:
   Exhibit A to Ordinance 16-22, adopted June 27, 2016, and amending Ordinance
22-45 are not
    set out herein but are available in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
§ 37.003 MUNICIPAL FOOD AND BEVERAGE TAX.
   (A)   The city’s municipal food and beverage tax is hereby imposed on all
food and beverage transactions occurring anywhere within the city at the rate
of 1% of the gross retail income from such food and beverage transactions.
   (B)   The city’s municipal food and beverage tax shall apply to all food and
beverage transactions occurring after the last day of the month succeeding the
month in which this regulation is adopted.
   (C)   (1)   There is hereby established a Tax Fund to be known a the
Municipal Food and Beverage Tax Fund, into which the Clerk-Treasurer shall
deposit all food and beverage tax revenues and all interest earned thereon.
      (2)   Council now finds that creating Fund 111 Food and Beverage Tax is
necessary for the fiscal integrity of the city and shall be created by the City
Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 6-9-35-13, as added by the Act, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall be responsible for maintaining the Tax Fund and for depositing therein
the food and beverage tax revenues and any interest earned thereon.
(Ord. 05-21, passed 7-11-2005; Ord. 19-54, passed 10-14-2019)
§ 37.004 PURCHASE OF A BLANKET BOND AND CRIME INSURANCE POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-4-1-18(b), the city, acting by and through
the Clerk-Treasurer or his or her designee, is authorized to purchase a blanket
bond that is endorsed to include faithful performance to cover the faithful
performance of and includes aggregate coverage sufficient to provide coverage
amounts specified for all employees, commission members and persons acting on
behalf of the city, including officers, employees and contractors, who are
required by law to file a bond.
      (2)   The blanket bond shall comply with the provisions of I.C. 5-4-1-18
and other applicable laws.
   (B)   (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-4-1-18(d), the city, acting by and through
the Clerk-Treasurer or his or her designee, is authorized to purchase a crime
insurance policy that provides coverage for criminal acts or omissions
committed by; is endorsed to include faithful performance to cover the faithful
performance of; and includes aggregate coverage sufficient to provide coverage
amounts specified for all officers, employees, contractors, commission members
and persons acting on behalf of the city and required to file a bond by law.
      (2)   The crime insurance policy shall comply with the provisions of I.C.
5-4-1-18 and other applicable laws.
   (C)   (1)   The bond amounts are fixed as follows:
         (a)   Clerk-Treasurer: $30,000 for each $1,000,000 of receipts of the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office during the last complete fiscal year before the
purchase of the bond. The amount may not be less than $30,000 nor more than
$300,000 unless the Council approves a greater amount;
         (b)   City officers, employees or contractors not described in I.C. 5-
4-1-18(a)(7): not less than $15,000; and
         (c)   City officers, employees or contractors described in I.C. 5-4-1-
18(a)(7): not less than $5,000.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the State Board of Accounts may fix
the amount of a bond in accordance with I.C. 5-4-1-18(k) and (l).
   (D)   Should any part of this section be found in conflict with I.C. 5-4-1-
18, the terms of I.C. 5-4-1-18 shall prevail. Should any parts of this section
be found unconstitutional or illegal, the remaining parts shall survive and be
in full effect.
(Ord. 24-19, passed 3-25-2024)
MUNICIPAL PROMOTION
§ 37.015 APPROPRIATIONS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The City Council is hereby authorized to budget and appropriate funds
from the General Fund of the city to pay the expenses of or to reimburse city
officials for expenses incurred in promoting the best interest of the city.
   (B)   Such expenses may include, but are not necessarily limited to, rental
of meeting places, meals, decorations and expenses incurred in interviewing job
applicants, in promoting industrial development and any other expenses of a
civic or governmental nature deemed to be in the interest of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-236)
Statutory reference:
   Industrial development, see I.C. 36-7-13
§ 37.016 PRIOR APPROVAL.
   No expenses shall be incurred under this subchapter without prior
authorization of the President of the City Council and all claims for such
expenses shall be approved by the President of the City Council and allowed in
the regular manner before payment.
(Prior Code, § 2-237)
WARRANTS
§ 37.030 APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS.
   Unless provided otherwise by the Indiana Code, the city monies may be
disbursed only after an appropriation made by ordinance of the City Council and
recorded in a book kept for that purpose by the Council. Each appropriation
must be made from the fund against which the expenses arose.
(Prior Code, § 2-266)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 36-4-4-2
§ 37.031 ISSUANCE OF WARRANT.
   (A)   The City Council or a board of the city may order the issuance of
warrants for payment of money by the city only at a meeting of the City Council
or a board.
   (B)   A city officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office
pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-4-4-3.
(Prior Code, § 2-267)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 36-4-4-3
§ 37.032 APPROVAL OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-4-4-12, the City Council
hereby authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer to make certain claim payments in advance
of the Council’s approval for the following types of expense:
      (1)   Insurance premiums;
      (2)   Utility payments;
      (3)   Maintenance and service agreements;
      (4)   Lease and rental agreements;
      (5)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (6)   Payroll; and
      (7)   State, federal and county taxes.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the Fiscal Officer.
   (C)   The City Council shall review and allow the claim at its next regular
or special meeting following the pre-approved payment of the expense.
(Prior Code, § 2-268)
§ 37.033 WARRANTS FOR PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a bill or an invoice submitted
for goods or services.
   (B)   Except as provided in I.C. 36-4-4-12, a warrant for payment of a claim
against the city may be issued only if the claim is:
      (1)   Supported by a fully itemized invoice or bill under I.C. 5-11-10-
1.6;
      (2)   Filed with the City Fiscal Officer;
      (3)   Certified by the Fiscal Officer before payment that each invoice is
true and correct; and
      (4)   Allowed by the City Council or by the board of the city having
jurisdiction over allowance of the payment of the claim.
   (C)   The certification by the Fiscal Officer under division (B)(3) above
must be on a form prescribed by the State Board of Accounts.
(Prior Code, § 2-269)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 36-4-4-6
WAIVER OF FEES
§ 37.045 FEES ELIGIBLE TO BE WAIVED.
   Notwithstanding the provision of any other ordinance, the City Council may
wholly or partially abate or waive the assessment and collection of any of the
following fees in accordance with the guidelines contained in this section:
   (A)   Water availability charges;
   (B)   Sewer availability charges;
   (C)   Water tap fee;
   (D)   Sewer tap fee;
   (E)   Road impact fee;
   (F)   Improvement location permit; and
   (G)   Variance application fee.
(Prior Code, § 2-436) (Ord. 96-11, passed 6-10-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Sewer fees, see I.C. 36-9-23-24 et seq.
§ 37.046 GUIDELINES.
   The applicable fees listed under §
37.045 may be abated or waived under the following conditions.
   (A)   When the city acquires land and other real estate or road and street
rights-of-way and as part of the consideration for such acquisitions certain
fees may be wholly or partially waived.
   (B)   When an applicant of a residential, commercial or industrial
development has or will incur certain developmental costs that would normally
be the responsibility of the city, then the whole or partial waiving of certain
fees as an offset to the expense incurred by the developer may occur.
   (C)   When residents of a subdivision that has been annexed by the city are
required to connect to the city’s water and sewer utilities, certain fees may
be wholly or partially waived.
   (D)   When the city constructs new facilities for fire, police, utilities or
other administrative functions for the furtherance of the city’s service
responsibilities, certain fees may be wholly or partially waived.
(Prior Code, § 2-437) (Ord. 96-11, passed 6-10-1996)
Editor’s note:
   Having sold the utilities, division (C) would be under the purview of
Citizens Energy Group.
Statutory reference:
   Required connections to sewer systems, see I.C. 36-9-23-30
§ 37.047 WAIVING OF FEES FOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS, CHURCHES, WESTFIELD GOVERNMENT,
WASHINGTON TOWNSHIP OF HAMILTON COUNTY GOVERNMENT AND HAMILTON COUNTY
GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of any other ordinance, the city shall
waive 50% of the following charges as applied to the Westfield-Washington
School Corporation: water availability, sewer availability and road impact
fees.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provision of any other ordinance, the city shall
waive 100% of the following charges as applied to the Westfield-Washington
School Corporation: improvement location permits and variance and special
exception application fees.
   (C)   The Council shall retain the authority to waive the following.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of any other ordinance, the city may
waive 50% of the following charges as applied to churches: water availability;
sewer availability; and road impact fees.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provision of any other ordinance, the city may
waive 100% of the following charges as applied to churches: improvement
location permits and variance and special exception application.
(Prior Code, § 2-438) (Ord. 96-11, passed 6-10-1996; Ord. 97-13, passed 5-12-
1997; Ord. 99-09, passed 9-13-1999; Ord. 09-01, passed 3-23-2009)
Editor’s note:
   Having sold the utilities, division (A) would be under the purview of
Citizens Energy Group.
§ 37.048 PARTIAL WAIVING OF FEES FOR HAMILTON COUNTY PARKS AND RECREATION
BUILDING PROJECTS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provision of any other ordinance, and upon
request, the City Council may waive up to $5,000, within purview of Council to
modify if desired, of any fee eligible for waiving as identified in §
37.045 for the Hamilton County Parks and Recreation Department for all current
and future building project activity located within the city boundaries of
Westfield.
   (B)   This maximum amount of $5,000, within purview of Council to modify if
desired, that can be waived is available for each of the fees defined in §
37.045.
(Prior Code, § 2-439) (Ord. 97-1, passed 1-13-1997)
Editor’s note:
   Having sold the utilities, this would be under the purview of Citizens
Energy Group.
§ 37.049 WAIVING OF FEES FOR ORGANIZATIONS CONSTRUCTING SPORTS AND RECREATION
FACILITIES ON THE PROPERTY OWNED BY THE CITY OR THE WESTFIELD WASHINGTON
SCHOOLS.
   Notwithstanding the provision of any other ordinance, and upon request, the
City Council may waive up to $5,000, within purview of Council to modify if
desired, of any fee eligible for waiving as identified in §
37.045. This maximum amount that can be waived is available for each of the
fees defined in §
37.045. This waiver request may be made for construction projects initiated by
organizations building sports and recreation facilities and playing fields that
contribute to the overall parks and recreation needs of the Westfield
community. These recreation construction projects must be for the benefit of,
and available for, the Westfield youth organizations and have a location that
is appropriate to serve the sports and recreation needs of the Westfield
community.
(Prior Code, § 2-440) (Ord. 03-14, passed 6-9-2003)
Editor’s note:
   Having sold the utilities, this would be under the purview of Citizens
Energy Group.
FIXED ASSET CAPITALIZATION POLICY
§ 37.060 GENERAL.
   All assets meeting the definition of a fixed asset shall be considered a
long-term asset and shall be recorded in the City Clerk-Treasurer’s office. All
departments are responsible to account for and report all long-term assets.
Such assets shall be systematically and accurately recorded; properly
classified; and adequately documented for reporting purposes. Each department
shall establish an internal control structure over capital (fixed) assets,
providing reasonable assurance of effective and efficient operations, reliable
financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
(Ord. 22-44, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 37.061 CAPITAL ASSETS RESPONSIBILITIES.
   To ensure best practices, the following capital assets responsibilities are
in place:
   (A)   Capital investment planning. Departments should include estimates by
asset type (street portion, streetscape portion, traffic signal or a roundabout
portion and the like) of capital investment projects;
   (B)   Budgeting. Departments should strive to itemize capital asset
acquisitions in their budget by asset type (land, building, equipment and the
like);
   (C)   Tracking. Departments should maintain a list of their capital assets
from acquisition to disposal. The preferred method of tracking is within a
computer database. The list should include:
      (1)   Asset description;
      (2)   Asset identifier (address, parcel number, VIN, serial ID, tag
number if applicable and the like);
      (3)   Date of acquisition;
      (4)   Asset cost or value when acquired;
      (5)   Estimated useful life; and
      (6)   Date of disposal (in the fiscal year the asset is disposed of, the
asset would be removed from the list in the following fiscal year).
   (D)   Acquisitions. Acquisitions should strive to be shown by each asset (if
ten vehicles meeting the capital asset criteria are purchased, there should be
ten transactions with each having an asset identifier);
   (E)   Disposals. Report any assets deemed to be surplus and unneeded by the
department so that proper transfer or disposal can proceed. Theft or loss of
property should be reported immediately. A police report should be obtained on
all losses suspected of being stolen;
   (F)   Reporting. At least quarterly, departments shall provide their lists
to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. All departments are required to prepare and
maintain an annual inventory of all assets to the respective department.
Departments directors are responsible for the inventories of their respective
departments; and
   (G)   Review. At least annually, the Clerk-Treasurer’s office will spot-
check capital assets. Depending on the capital asset, the Clerk-Treasurer will
communicate with the County Assessor’s office as to taxation.
(Ord. 22-44, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 37.062 GENERAL POLICY.
   The purpose of this policy is to guide capital assets and fixed asset
capitalization:
   (A)   Tracking acquisition to disposal; and
   (B)   Reporting in the financial statements following standards established
by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB).
(Ord. 22-44, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 37.063 DEFINITIONS AND PROVISIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL ASSETS. The city has various assets. To be a CAPITAL ASSET, three
criteria must be met:
      (1)   A tangible asset owned by the city;
      (2)   An asset with an initial, individual cost of more than the capital
asset threshold (see Capital Asset Threshold Table) for the asset type; and
      (3)   An asset with an estimated useful life of two or more years.
   CAPITAL OUTLAYS. Expenditures that benefit both the current and future
fiscal periods are considered capital outlays. This includes costs of acquiring
land or structures, construction or improvement of buildings, structures or
other fixed assets, and equipment purchases having an appreciable and
calculable period of usefulness. These are expenditures resulting in the
acquisition of or addition to the government’s general fixed assets.
   FIXED ASSETS. Tangible assets of a durable nature employed in the operating
activities of the unit and that are relatively permanent are FIXED ASSETS.
These assets are not held for sale in the ordinary course of business. This
broad group is usually separated into classes according to the physical
characteristics of the items (e.g., land, buildings, improvements other than
buildings, machinery, equipment, furniture, and fixtures and the like).
   TANGIBLE ASSETS. An asset that can be observed by one or more of the
physical senses is referred to as a TANGIBLE ASSET.
(Ord. 22-44, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 37.064 CAPITAL ASSETS CATEGORIES.
   The city reports five categories of capital assets: land; buildings;
improvements; infrastructure; and equipment. Each category is further
identified by type.
   (A)   Land. LAND is defined as specified land, lots, parcels or acreage
including rights-of-way owned by the city, its various departments, boards or
commissions, regardless of the method or date of acquisition. Easements are not
included, as the city does not own them, but has an interest in land owned by
another (i.e., property owner) that entitles its holder to a specified limited
use. The land improvements consist of betterments, site preparation, and site
improvements (other than buildings) of a permanent nature that ready the land
for its intended use. The costs associated with improvements to land are added
to the cost of the land. Land and land improvements are inexhaustible assets
and do not depreciate over time. The city will capitalize all land purchases,
regardless of cost:
      (1)   Land acquired (including right-of-way). Expenditures for the
purchase of land, including right-of-way. This includes land where the city has
ownership;
      (2)   Exceptions to land capitalization are land purchased outright as
easements or rights-of-way for infrastructure. Examples of infrastructure are
roads and streets, street lighting systems, overpasses, sidewalks, curbs,
parking meters, street signs and stormwater collection;
      (3)   The original cost of land shall include the full value given to the
seller including relocation costs, legal services incidental to the purchase
(including title work), appraisals and negotiation fees, surveying and any
other costs for preparing the land for its intended purpose. Also included are
contractors and/or city personnel (salary and benefits) used to demolish
buildings, excavation, clean up and/or inspection;
      (4)   The city shall record donated land at fair market value plus all
associated costs on the date of the land transfer; and
      (5)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will adhere to the
source funding policies and procedures.
   (B)   Buildings. A BUILDING is a structure that is permanently attached to
the land and is not intended to be transportable or moveable. Any structures
designed and erected to house equipment services or functions are included.
This includes systems, services and fixtures within the building, as well as
attachments such as porches, stairs, fire escapes, canopies, areaways, lighting
fixtures, flagpoles, sound equipment, security cameras, lifts and riggings,
curtains and staging and all other such units that serve the building. The city
reports three types of capital assets as buildings:
      (1)   Buildings acquired. Expenditures for acquiring existing buildings.
         (a)   A department shall capitalize buildings at full cost with no
subcategories, including the cost of attachments. Examples of attachments are
heating, cooling, plumbing, lighting, sprinkler systems or any part of the
basic building. The city will include the cost of items designed or purchased
exclusively for the building.
         (b)   Capital building costs shall include land preparation,
architectural and engineering fees, bond issuance fees, attorney and financing
costs (during construction), accounting costs, and any costs directly
attributable to the construction of a building.
         (c)   A department shall record donated buildings at fair market value
including associated costs on the date of transfer.
         (d)   Purchases made using federal or state funding shall adhere to
the source funding policies and procedures.
      (2)   Building design and construction. Expenditures for design and
construction of new buildings. This includes parking garages.
      (3)   (a)   Building improvements. Building improvements are capital
events that materially extend the useful life of a building, increase the value
of a building, or both. A building improvement should be capitalized and
recorded as an increase in the value of the existing building if the cost of
the improvement meets or exceeds the capitalization threshold and decreases the
estimated useful life.
         (b)   Expenditures for improvements made to existing buildings.
Improvements mean any expenditure greater than the asset type threshold that
adds new capacity to an existing building or extends the estimated useful life
of an existing building. This includes an addition, a new roof, or a new HVAC
system.
         (c)   Capitalization. Any department, board or commission improving or
renovating an existing building shall capitalize the cost only if the result
meets all of the following conditions:
            1.   The total cost exceeds $100,000;
            2.   The useful life is extended by two or more years;
            3.   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value; and
            4.   Repairs and rehabilitation of less than $100,000 shall be
expensed.
   (C)   Improvements.
      (1)   IMPROVEMENTS other than buildings include depreciable improvements
and betterments made to land of a permanent nature, other than buildings that
add value to land but do not have an indefinite useful life. Expenditures for
land improvements that do not deteriorate with use or passage of time are
additions to the cost of land and are generally not exhaustible, and therefore
not depreciable. The definition of this group includes improvements to land
which are attached or not easily removed, and which have a life expectancy of
greater than two years. Examples are walks, parking areas, drives, golf cart
paths, fencing, retaining walls, pools, outside fountains, planters,
underground sprinkler systems, and other similar items. The city reports three
types of capital assets as improvements:
         (a)   Roads or drives on city-owned land that provide support to city
facilities are assets. sidewalks installed on city-owned land for use by the
public and the support of the city facility are capital assets;
         (b)   Parks and recreation facilities. Cost of acquisition and
improvements to city parks;
         (c)   Distribution and collection systems. Cost of acquisition and
improvements to the city’s sewer, stormwater and reclaim distribution systems.
      (2)   The city shall capitalize repairs or renovations to improvements
only if it meets the following conditions:
         (a)   The total cost exceeds $35,000; and
         (b)   The useful life is greater than two years.
      (3)   A department shall capitalize improvements or renovations to
existing improvements other than buildings only if the result meets the
following conditions:
         (a)   The total cost exceeds $35,000;
         (b)   The asset’s useful, life is extended by two or more years; and
         (c)   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
      (4)   A department’s donated improvements other than buildings shall be
recorded at fair market value plus all associated costs on the date of
transfer.
         (a)   Purchases made using federal or state funding shall follow the
source funding policies and the aforementioned procedures.
         (b)   Historical cost. The cash equivalent price exchanged for goods
or services at the date of acquisition is the historical cost. Land, buildings,
equipment, and most inventories are common examples of items recognized under
the historical cost attribute.
   (D)   Infrastructure.
      (1)   INFRASTRUCTURE ASSETS are long-lived capital assets that are
normally stationary in nature and can be preserved for a significantly greater
number of years than most capital assets. Maintenance and preservation of these
assets are expensed in the period incurred. Infrastructure is overseen by
Engineering and Public Works. The city reports eight types of capital assets as
infrastructure:
         (a)   Drainage. Cost of improving drainage;
         (b)   Streets and roundabouts. Cost of adding, resurfacing or
improving streets;
         (c)   Curb and gutter. Cost of adding or improving curb and gutter;
         (d)   Gateway enhancement and streetscape. Cost designated for adding
or improving gateway enhancement and streetscape;
         (e)   Bridges and tunnels. Cost of adding or improving bridges and
tunnels;
         (f)   Sidewalks and trails. Cost of adding or improving sidewalks and
trails;
         (g)   Traffic signals. Cost of acquiring and installing traffic
signals; and
         (h)   Streetlights. Cost installing or improving streetlights.
      (2)   Infrastructure improvements are capitalized and recorded as an
addition of value to the infrastructure if the improvement or additional value
meets the capitalization threshold.
   (E)   Vehicles, machinery and equipment. The EQUIPMENT ASSET CLASS is used
to account for movable items. Supplies are excluded. Machinery and equipment
are an apparatus, tool, or conglomeration or pieces to form a tool, or
purchased equipment, used in operations. These items can be fixed or movable
tangible assets. They will stand alone and not become part of a basic structure
or building. The city shall capitalize and tag items with an individual value
equal to or greater than $5,000. Machinery combined with other machinery to
form one unit with a total value greater than $5,000 will be one unit. Examples
of movable items:
      (1)   Furniture and fixtures. Expenditures for furniture and fixtures,
including office furniture and building fixtures, with a unit, cost more than
the capital asset type threshold. Normally, such items would be indoors and
would not require power to operate. Examples include chairs, tables, bookcases
and office cubicles;
      (2)   Vehicles. Expenditures for on-road rolling stock with a unit cost
over the capital asset type threshold, each used to transport persons or
objects. May include expenditures for permanent type improvements to new
vehicles before placing the vehicle in service for the first time, regardless
of cost (e.g., permanent attachments, pickup truck bed covers, bed liners,
patrol car light bars, window tinting and the like). Other examples include
trailers, motorcycles, automobiles (e.g., sedans, pick-up trucks, SUVs), and
on-road trucks to which the city affixes a license plate. Does not include off-
road rolling stock to which the city does not affix a license plate;
      (3)   Other vehicles. Other vehicles (that may not have a license plate)
that must be capitalized include: golf carts, maintenance utility vehicles,
lawnmowers, tractors and the like;
      (4)   Machinery and equipment. Expenditures for machinery and equipment
with a unit cost over the capital asset type threshold each, are usually
composed of a complex combination of parts. Examples include copiers,
electronics, power tools, self-contained breathing apparatus, off-road rolling
stock to which the city does not affix a license plate, traffic controllers and
monitors, and radio equipment. does not include computer hardware and vehicles
to which the city affixes a license plate;
      (5)   Computer hardware. Computer hardware with a unit cost over the
capital asset type threshold; and
      (6)   Computer software. Non-recurring cost of computer software with a
unit cost over the capital asset type threshold. For internally generated
computer soft ware, only costs incurred during the application development
stage are considered capital assets.
   (F)   Construction in progress. CONSTRUCTION, OR DEVELOPMENT, IN PROGRESS is
a special class of capital asset that is still in the process of construction
(tangible) or development (intangible). Depreciation does not begin until the
capital assets are substantially ready to be placed in service.
(Ord. 22-44, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 37.065 CAPITAL ASSETS THRESHOLDS.
   Assets purchased, constructed or received through capital lease or donation
must be uniformly grouped into capital asset types. The following table
summarizes the capitalization thresholds for the city’s capital asset types.
Amounts are capitalized when the cost or value equals or exceeds the applicable
threshold amount. Projects will remain open for 12 months after construction is
complete to capture any late occurring costs. The threshold is applied to
individual items, rather than to the group as a whole (e.g., fire hydrants and
the like).
(Ord. 22-44, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 37.066 CAPITAL ASSET THRESHOLD TABLE FOR CAPITALIZATION/DEPRECIATION.
Type Threshold Amount
Type                     Threshold Amount
Land                     Purchase price/capitalize only
Land improvements        $50,000
Buildings                $100,000
Building improvements    $100,000
Improvements             $35,000
Construction in progress Capitalize only
Infrastructure           $1,000,000
Vehicles                 $5,000
Machinery and equipment  $5,000
 
(Ord. 22-44, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 37.067 CAPITAL ASSET COST AND VALUATION.
   (A)   Capital assets are stated at historical cost or, in some instances,
estimated historical cost. Donated capital assets, donated works of art or
similar items, and any capital assets received in service concession
arrangements are reported at acquisition value. Major outlays for capital
assets and improvements are capitalized as projects, are constructed. The cost
of normal maintenance and repairs that do not add to the value of an asset or
materially extend the asset’s life is not capitalized.
   (B)   With few exceptions, an asset’s cost should also include necessary
costs incurred to place the asset in service. Costs include the invoice price
plus incidental costs (insurance during transit, freight, capitalized interest,
duties, title search, registration fees, installation costs, professional fees,
excavation, fill, grading, drainage, clearing, relocation, reconstruction,
expenses for remodeling or reconditioning, legal fees, inspections, permits,
installation of HVAC, plumbing, or electrical wiring, fencing, irrigation
systems, paths and trails, athletic field turf and the like). Exceptions
include interest expenses associated with deferred payments and real estate
taxes paid, if any, in the acquisition of property.
(Ord. 22-44, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 37.068 CAPITAL ASSETS REPORTING IN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   Although capital assets are expensed for budget purposes, they are shown as
capital assets in the government-wide balance sheet of a financial statement.
They are reclassified to capital assets through fiscal year-end worksheet
adjustments. Depreciation of these assets is also done by worksheet
adjustments. The formula for calculating straight-line depreciation is:
 
   Straight Line Depreciation = (Cost of the Asset - Estimated Salvage Value)/
Estimated Useful Life of an Asset
 
   (A)   Depreciation. Depreciation is the systematic and rational allocation
of net cost (cost less estimated residual value) over the depreciable asset’s
estimated useful life. The city calculates depreciation on a straight-line
basis over the estimated useful fife. The city begins depreciation in the first
month of use for a frill month, or if the starting month is not known,
depreciation is assumed for one-half of the fiscal year of implementation.
   (B)   Modified approach. For infrastructure, the city utilizes a modified
approach. Under the modified approach, depreciation expenses are not recorded
for infrastructure capital assets that meet certain condition requirements.
Land acquired, easements acquired, and drainage are not depreciated.
   (C)   Salvage. Generally, at the end of an asset’s life, the sum of the
amounts charged for depreciation in each accounting period (accumulated
depreciation) will equal its original cost less salvage value. The salvage
value is the amount for which the asset could be sold at the end of its useful
life. The city determines salvage value on an asset-by-asset basis.
(Ord. 22-44, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 37.069 ESTIMATED USEFUL LIFE OF CITY ASSETS TABLE.
   (A)   Schedule. The city uses the following estimated life schedule for its
capital assets:
Capital Asset Type Estimated Life (Years)
Capital Asset Type                                                              Estimated Life (Years)
Land                                                                             
   Land acquired                                                             Capitalized only/not
                                                                                depreciated
   Easements acquired                                                        Capitalized only/not
                                                                                depreciated
Buildings
   Buildings acquired                                                        50 or fewer years since built
   Building design and construction                                          50
   Building improvements                                                     25
   Building components (HVAC systems, roofing)                               20
Improvements                                                                     
   Parks and recreation facilities (playground, shelters)                    10—20
   Leasehold improvements                                                    Useful life of asset or lease
                                                                                term (whichever is shorter)
   Land improvements-structure or groundwork (athletic fields, parking lots, 20
fencing, landscaping)
Infrastructure                                                                   
   Drainage                                                                  50
   Streets                                                                   50
   Curb and gutter                                                           40
   Gateway enhancement and streetscape                                       25
   Bridges and tunnels (road bridges)                                        40
   Bridges and tunnels (pedestrian bridges)                                  30
   Sidewalks                                                                 30
   Traffic signals                                                           35
   Streetlights                                                              25
Equipment                                                                        
   Furniture, fixtures                                                       20 years
   Office equipment (Copiers, scanners and the like)                         5 years
   Vehicles*                                                                 5—10 years (based on use or
                                                                                warranty)
   Machinery                                                                 5—15 years (based on use or
                                                                                warranty)
   Grounds equipment (mowers, tractors, attachments)                         15
   Computer hardware                                                         3—10
   Computer software                                                         3—10
   Security cameras                                                          10
*   Fire apparatus expected life is up to 15 years
 
   (B)   Capital leases. Some capital assets are acquired and owned by the city
but the full acquisition price may not be immediately paid in full. Leased
equipment should be capitalized if the lease agreement transfers ownership of
the property to the lessee by the end of the lease term, or the present value
of the minimum lease payments at the inception of the lease (excluding
executory costs) equals at least 90% of the fair value of the leased property.
The payments may occur over multiple years. For these types of purchases, each
payment will be expensed. Leases that do not meet the criteria are considered
operating leases.
   (C)   Construction in progress. Construction is progress (CIP) is an asset
account that represents the temporary accumulation of costs, such as labor,
materials, equipment and any ancillary charges directly attributable to the
construction of the project. Once the asset is complete and placed into
service, the costs are classified in the appropriate capital asset category.
This concept would be the same for buildings, infrastructure or internally
generated assets.
   (D)   Exceptions. Exceptions are:
      (1)   Items costing less than the limits described which are permanently
installed as a part of the cost of original construction or installation of a
larger building or equipment unit will be included in the cost of the larger
unit;
      (2)   Modular equipment added after original equipment construction of a
larger building or equipment unit which may be put together to form larger
units costing more than the prescribed limits will be charged to capital assets
even though the cost of individual items is less than such units; and
      (3)   Cabinets, shelving, bookcases and similar items, added after the
original construction, which are custom-made for a specific place and adaptable
elsewhere, will be capitalized.
(Ord. 22-44, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 37.070 CAPITAL ASSETS PURCHASED WITH GRANT FUNDS.
   When federal grant funds are used to purchase capital assets, compliance
with the applicable subparts of Part 200 - Uniform Administrative Requirements,
Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards in the Code of
Federal Regulations is required. All grant types typically have requirements
specified in the grant award letter with which the city must comply.
(Ord. 22-44, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 37.071 ASSETS ACQUISITION, TRANSFER AND DISPOSAL.
   City assets may be acquired or disposed of using the prescribed fixed asset
notification form available through the employee all-share file labeled CT
Forms. The following procedure must be observed for all acquisitions,
transfers, and disposals of assets; complete the requisite form, obtain the
signature of the department head and forward the completed documentation to the
Fiscal Officer/Clerk-Treasurer for recording purposes.
(Ord. 22-44, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 37.072 REPORTING OF FRAUD.
   Any city employee who suspects the misappropriation of capital assets should
follow the applicable requirements outlined in Ordinance 99-03. This subchapter
repeals and replaces a policy (Ordinance 16-43) on materiality and the process
for reporting material variances.
(Ord. 22-44, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 37.073 ASSETS OTHER THAN CAPITAL ASSETS DEFINED.
   All assets are not capital assets. The city has two other asset
classifications not included in capital assets:
   (A)   Departmental non-capital assets. These are items in use (equipment,
furniture, fire hydrants and the like) that individually do not meet the
capital asset criteria. At the discretion of the city’s Clerk-Treasurer, if an
asset inventory purchase total does not meet or exceed the capital asset
threshold, the purchase may be reviewed as necessary for potential depreciation
as a capital asset; and
   (B)   Financial inventory. Only single items valued at more than $5,000 will
be inventoried. We do not schedule bulk items for inventory.
(Ord. 22-44, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 37.074 CAPITAL ASSET CODING.
   (A)   Like other costs, capital asset costs are expensed in all funds, in
lieu of an already established and effective report, the department that owns
or has rights to the asset should be used with the expenditure codes below.
(The fund numbers are not currently reported on the current capital assets
report.) Instead, a 12-digit code should be used for internal capital asset
reporting.
   (B)   The first three digits are 472 (capital outlays), the second three
digits will indicate the department; the third set corresponds to one of the
following codes, and the last three digits indicate an inventory number (001-
999):
 
Type           Last Three Digits
Land           001
Buildings      002
Improvements   003
Infrastructure 004
Equipment      005
 
   (C)   For example:
      (1)   A parcel of land, assuming-it is the first parcel, in Grand Park
(outdoor) would be coded: 472-015-001-001. If a concession stand happens to be
in a parcel, it is coded: 472-015-002-001.
      (2)   Land purchased by Public Works for a city park (Grand Junction)
would be coded as 472-013-004-001. In this case, Grand Junction is part of the
city’s infrastructure and is one of many parcels.
   (D)   If capital assets are sold, proceeds from the sale will be recorded in
the appropriate revenue account. This should be reported immediately to the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office. The correct fund is the department with ownership of
the asset.
(Ord. 22-44, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 37.075 CAPITAL ASSET REDUCTIONS.
   Capital assets no longer owned or in possession of the city shall be removed
from the capital asset records. There are three reasons for an asset reduction.
   (A)   Sold and/or retired. These assets will be removed from the capital
asset records upon formal notification from the responsible part of such
disposition. City policy regained the sale/disposal of surplus equipment will
be followed.
   (B)   Transferred assets. Assets that are transferred to proprietary
(business-type) funds will be accounted for separately from the governmental
activities of the city and will be removed from the capital asset records
(about governmental activities) upon transfer to a proprietary fund (i.e., the
asset will be accounted for in the proprietary fund).
   (C)   Missing. Assets not seen for two consecutive annual periods will be
classified as missing and will be removed from the capital asset records upon
formal notification. These assets no longer will be searched for in regular
annual inventories. However, if an asset is located at some time in the future,
it will be reactivated in the system.
(Ord. 22-44, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 37.076 REPORTING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Generally. The Clerk-Treasurer’s office may implement other policies,
procedures and changes as necessary to this policy. Each department is
responsible for reviewing its business practices and processes for capital
assets and determining where risks exist and where and how controls can be
established to mitigate these risks, however, employees should be referred to
the Policy for Reporting Materials Variances.
   (B)   Exceptions to policy/reporting of exceptions.
      (1)   If a capital assets situation arises that is not covered within
this policy, the Clerk-Treasurer will authorize the method of handling.
      (2)   The capital assets exception will be reported at the next available
Common Council meeting.
(Ord. 22-44, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 37.077 CONFLICT WITH STATE LAW.
   Not withstanding the foregoing, if any of these policies conflict with state
law, they shall be deemed to be void pending further corrective action, but the
rest of the compliant sections of the policy shall remain unaffected.
(Ord. 22-44, passed 10-24-2022)
§ 37.078 POLICY FOR REPORTING MATERIAL VARIANCES.
   (A)   (1)   All erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages or
thefts of city funds or property, or funds or property the city holds in trust,
shall be promptly reported to the direct supervisor of the employee who
identifies the issue.
      (2)   The supervisor shall then report the same to the Mayor, Fiscal
Officer and their counsel.
   (B)   Written notice shall immediately be sent to the State Board of
Accounts and the appropriate prosecuting attorney’s office of any erroneous or
irregular variances, losses, shortages or thefts of cash and non-cash items
over $5,000 real or estimated market values, except for inadvertent clerical
errors or misplacements that are identified timely and corrected promptly with
no loss to the city, and except for losses from genuine accidents.
   (C)   Written notice shall immediately be sent to the State Board of
Accounts and the appropriate prosecuting attorney’s office when a public
officer has actual knowledge or reasonable cause to believe there has been a
misappropriation of public funds or assets.
   (D)   (1)   For erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages or
thefts that do not meet the criteria specified in divisions (B) and (C) above,
the Mayor, Clerk-Treasurer, Common Council and their legal counsel shall meet
in executive session to discuss the matter pursuant to I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1(b)(2)
(B).
      (2)   The discussion will determine if it is in the best interest of the
taxpayers of the city to seek recovery of the funds or that recovery should not
be pursued because the cost of recovery of the asset is reasonably estimated to
exceed the cost of said asset.
   (E)   All erroneous or irregular immaterial variances, losses, shortages or
thefts of cash or non-cash items shall be documented and resolved. The Office
of Corporation Counsel and the Department of Human Resources shall maintain the
documents, under state law.
(Ord. 22-44, passed 10-24-2022)
INVESTMENT POLICY FOR CITY FUNDS RECEIVED FROM THE SALE OF WATER AND WASTEWATER
ASSETS
§ 37.090 SCOPE AND INTENT.
   This subchapter sets forth the investment policy of the city. This statement
of investment policy, objectives and guidelines (the “investment policy”)
applies to the investment of funds received from the sale of the water and
wastewater assets to Citizens Energy Group. The Common Council of the city (the
“Council”) is responsible for fiduciary oversight of these invested funds. The
Council has approved this investment policy in furtherance of its goal to meet
the investment objectives listed in §
37.092.
(Prior Code, § 2-531) (Ord. 13-33, passed 12-9-2013)
Editor’s note:
   This subchapter expired on December 9, 2017.
§ 37.091 PURPOSE OF THIS INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   This investment policy has been adopted by the Council in order to:
      (1)   Define and assign the responsibilities of all involved parties;
      (2)   Establish a clear understanding for all involved parties of the
investment goals and objectives of city assets;
      (3)   Establish the relevant investment time horizon(s) for which the
assets will be managed;
      (4)   Manage assets according to prudent standards;
      (5)   Establish a basis for evaluating investment results; and
      (6)   Adopt and implement the provisions of I.C. 5-13-9-1 et seq. (the
Municipal Investment Act) including, in particular, § 5.7 of the Municipal
Investment Act.
   (B)   In general, the purpose of this statement is to outline a philosophy
and attitude which will guide the investment of the assets toward the desired
results while complying with state law. It is intended to be sufficiently
specific to be meaningful, yet flexible enough to be practical.
(Prior Code, § 2-532) (Ord. 13-33, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 37.092 OBJECTIVES OF THE INVESTMENT POLICY.
   The primary objectives, in priority order, of the city’s investment program
shall be:
   (A)   Safety. Safety of principal shall be the foremost objective of the
investment program. Investments shall be made in a manner that seeks to ensure
the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. Credit risk will be
minimized both by diversification (limiting the potential for loss from any one
issuer or any one type of security) and by limiting investments to the types of
securities described in §
37.094. Market risk will be minimized both by structuring the portfolio so that
investments generally mature in time to meet anticipated cash requirements
(limiting the need to sell securities prior to maturity) and by investing
primarily in shorter-term securities;
   (B)   Liquidity. The investment portfolio shall be structured so that
investments generally mature in time to meet anticipated cash requirements.
Further, since all cash requirements cannot be anticipated, the portfolio shall
consist primarily of cash equivalents and securities with active secondary or
resale markets;
   (C)   Yield. The investment portfolio shall be structured with the objective
of attaining a market rate of return, taking into account the constraints of
safety and liquidity described above. Return on investment is less important
than safety and liquidity;
   (D)   Full investment. To the extent practicable, all funds shall be fully
deployed as earning assets; and
   (E)   Minimal turnover. Securities shall typically not be sold prior to
maturity, with the following exceptions:
      (1)   A declining-credit security can be sold early to minimize the
potential loss of principal;
      (2)   A security can be sold and replaced with another if such action
improves the quality or yield of the portfolio; and
      (3)   A security can be sold early to meet liquidity needs.
(Prior Code, § 2-533) (Ord. 13-33, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 37.093 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The authority to operate and manage the investment program is granted
to the Council which may delegate such authority, together with any investment
officer(s) that the Council designates as such (together, the “investment
officers”). the Clerk-Treasurer, the Council and any additional investment
officers, which may include third party investment advisors, shall establish
controls and procedures to implement this program which shall include regular
quarterly reporting to the Council.
   (B)   The standard of care shall be as follows.
      (1)   Prudence.
         (a)   Investments shall be made in accordance with the prudent person
standard. This standard provides that an investor shall act with the care,
skill, prudence and diligence under the circumstances then prevailing, that a
prudent person acting in a like capacity and familiar with such matters would
use in the conduct of an enterprise of like character and with like aims.
         (b)   Investment officers acting in accordance with this investment
policy statement and any written procedures and exercising due diligence, shall
be relieved of personal liability for an individual security’s credit risk or
market price changes, provided that deviations from expected results are
reported in a timely fashion and that appropriate action is taken to control
adverse developments.
      (2)   Ethics and conflicts of interest. Investment officers shall refrain
from personal business activity that could conflict with the proper execution
and management of the city’s investment program, or that could impair their
ability to make impartial decisions. Investment officers should also maintain
knowledge of all applicable laws, rules and regulations; and not knowingly
violate, or participate or assist in the violation of, such laws, rules and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 2-534) (Ord. 13-33, passed 12-9-2013; Ord. 14-31, passed 7-14-
2014)
§ 37.094 INVESTMENT INSTRUMENTS.
   (A)   The city is only permitted to invest funds in those investments
authorized by Indiana law, including but not limited to the Municipal
Investment Act, which authorizations are hereby made a part of this policy. It
is the policy of the city and this Council to limit allowable investments to
the following types of securities:
      (1)   U.S. Treasury securities (e.g., bills, notes, bonds, SLGS, STRIPS
and TIPS), which are backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S.
government;
      (2)   Federal agency obligations (including both federally related
institution securities and federally sponsored agency securities), including,
but not limited to, Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Farmer Mac, and
Federal Home Loan Bank debt: Any full-faith-and-credit securities are
permitted;
      (3)   Mortgage pass-through securities issued by Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae
or Freddie Mac: Any full-faith-and-credit securities are permitted;
      (4)   Municipal securities issued by an Indiana local government entity,
a quasi-governmental entity related to the state, or a unit of government,
municipal corporation or special taxing district in Indiana, so long as the
issuer has not defaulted on any of its obligations within the past 20 years and
the security is rated in one of the three highest rating categories by any one
of Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s or Fitch or, if the security is not rated by any
one of Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s, or Fitch, securities of such issuer having
the same or materially similar pledged revenue source of re-payment have within
the past two years been rated in one of the three highest categories by any one
of Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s or Fitch. For avoidance of doubt, the three
highest categories would include ratings in the AAA, AA and A categories,
including any modifiers of + or - in the case of Standard & Poor’s or Fitch and
1, 2 or 3 in the case of Moody’s;
      (5)   Repurchase agreements, if at least 105% collateralized by any of
the above;
      (6)   Money market mutual funds regulated by the Securities and Exchange
Commission:
         (a)   Only open-end no-load funds are permitted (i.e., no commission
or fee shall be charged on purchases or sales of shares);
         (b)   Permitted funds will be those that limit assets of the fund to
U.S. Treasury securities, federal agency securities and repurchase agreements
collateralized by the same; or that are rated in the highest rating category by
one of the rating agencies;
         (c)   These funds seek to maintain a stable net asset value of $1 per
share; and
         (d)   By definition these funds will meet the requirements for
portfolio maturity, portfolio quality and portfolio diversification in Rule 2a-
7 under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
      (7)   Time deposits in state or nationally chartered banks (who are
designated as a depository under § 5 of the Municipal Investment Act) whose
deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, with
balances not to exceed $250,000 per institution.
   (B)   Additional securities may be added to the above approved list with the
approval of the Council.
   (C)   Investments are not permitted in certain derivatives, nor in certain
mutual funds which invest primarily in such securities. Investments
specifically prohibited are those characterized as being illiquid, highly
volatile and difficult to value. Prohibited securities include, but are not
limited to, mortgage derivatives such as Z-bonds, PAC-2s and Re-REMICS.
(Prior Code, § 2-535) (Ord. 13-33, passed 12-9-2013; Ord. 14-31, passed 7-14-
2014)
§ 37.095 INVESTMENT PARAMETERS.
   (A)   Maximum maturity. To the extent possible, investments will be matched
with anticipated cash flow requirements. Subject to the limitations of § 5.7 of
the Municipal Investment Act, the city shall not invest in securities maturing
on a date which is more than two years from the date of purchase, provided,
however:
      (1)   Not more than 25% of the city’s investment of its total portfolio
of public funds may be invested for more than two years but not more than five
years from the date of purchase; and
      (2)   That funds which are not public funds such as, but not limited to,
indentured reserve funds are not subject to the foregoing maturity limitations
and may exceed five years if the maturities of such investments precede the
expected use of such funds.
   (B)   Average maturity. The average weighted maturity of the portfolio
should not typically exceed three years.
   (C)   Diversification. Investments shall be diversified by type of security
and issuer. Except for cash equivalents and U.S. Treasury securities, the total
portfolio shall consist of no more than 40% of any single type of security or
single name (e.g., City of Indianapolis).
(Prior Code, § 2-536) (Ord. 13-33, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 37.096 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   (A)   Generally. All investment transactions, including, but not limited to,
those completed by telephone, shall be supported in writing and approved by an
investment officer. Written communication may be made by facsimile on city
letterhead.
   (B)   Book entry. The city shall strive to invest in book-entry securities,
thus avoiding physical delivery of securities. No securities shall be
physically stored or kept in the offices of the city.
   (C)   Custodial safekeeping.
      (1)   Securities purchased from any bank or dealer, including collateral
when appropriate, shall generally be placed with the appropriate trustee or
with an independent third party for safekeeping.
      (2)   Any security that is able to be wired over the FedWire will be kept
safe in a customer or trust account in a Federal Reserve Bank through the
appropriate custodial bank.
      (3)   Any security not able to be wired over the FedWire, that is held by
the Depository Trust Corporation (DTC), shall be held in the name of the city
or trustee, if applicable, through the appropriate custodial bank.
      (4)   Securities may be held by a broker/dealer to the extent the broker/
dealer serves as an agent for the city or the appropriate trustee. No
securities will be held by a broker/dealer without evidence of adequate
Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC) insurance (or protection
judged to be equivalent by the city or the appropriate trustee).
   (D)   Delivery vs. payment. All securities will be held in accounts in the
name of the city or the appropriate trustee. Securities will be deposited prior
to the release of funds. Securities held by a third party custodian will be
evidenced by safekeeping receipts.
(Prior Code, § 2-537) (Ord. 13-33, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 37.097 PERFORMANCE AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Annual report. The investment officers shall prepare an investment
report at least annually which shall provide a clear picture of the status of
the portfolio and transactions made over the preceding year. Such report shall
be designed to allow the Council to ascertain whether the investment activities
during the reporting period have conformed to this investment policy.
   (B)   Performance. The portfolio should achieve a market rate of return
during a market environment of stable interest rates. Portfolio performance
shall be compared at least annually to the yield on three-month, six-month and
one-year U.S. Treasury obligations. Such performance comparison may be included
in the quarterly report of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-538) (Ord. 13-33, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 37.098 INVESTMENT POLICY DURATION AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Expiration. This investment policy expires on December 9, 2017.
   (B)   Periodic review. To assure continued relevance of the policies,
objectives, guidelines, as established in this investment policy, the Council
plans to review this investment statement at least every year.
(Prior Code, § 2-539) (Ord. 13-33, passed 12-9-2013; Ord. 14-31, passed 7-14-
2014)
ALLOCATION OF LOCAL OPTION INCOME TAX REVENUES
§ 37.110 DISTRIBUTION.
   The Council now finds that the LOIT allocation shall be deposited as
follows:
   (A)   Twenty-five percent shall be deposited into the Rainy Day Fund No.
403; and
   (B)   Seventy-five percent shall be deposited into LOIT Fund 257, the
creation of which is hereby authorized and ordered.
(Prior Code, § 2-561) (Ord. 16-21, passed 6-27-2016)
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 37.125 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this investment policy (the “policy”) is to set forth the
investment objectives and parameters for the management of public funds by the
city. This investment policy is designed to safeguard funds on behalf of the
city; to assure the availability of funds when needed; and, provide a
competitive investment return.
(Ord. 23-11, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 37.126 SCOPE.
   (A)   This policy applies to the investment of all funds of the city
including, but not limited to, the General Fund, special revenue funds, debt
service funds, project funds, enterprise funds and TIF funds.
   (B)   The city may consolidate fund balances, when allowed by law, to
increase investment earnings and to increase efficiencies with regard to
investment pricing, banking fees and administration. Investment income will be
allocated to the various funds based on their respective participation and in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
(Ord. 23-11, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 37.127 GENERAL OBJECTIVES.
   The primary objectives, in priority order, of investment shall be safety,
liquidity and return.
   (A)   Safety. Safety of principle is the foremost objective of the
investment program. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to
ensure the preservation of capital. The objective will be to minimize credit
risk and interest rate risk.
      (1)   Credit risk.
         (a)   The city will minimize credit risk, which is the risk of loss
due to the failure of the security issuer or backer, by limiting investments to
the types of securities listed under §
37.130 of this policy.
         (b)   Additionally, the investment officer may opt to utilize multiple
depositories for investments to minimize credit risks by diversifying the
portfolio. If the investment officer determines that this is appropriate, and
this strategy results in choosing to utilize a bidder offering a lower yield,
the investment officer will document this reasoning in writing, and maintain
such documentation until the investment is matured or liquidated, or for the
time required by the state records retention rules, whichever occurs later.
      (2)   Interest rate risk. The city will minimize interest rate risk,
which is the risk that the market value of securities in the portfolio will
fall due to changes in market interest rates, by structuring the investment
portfolio so that securities mature to meet cash requirements for ongoing
operations, thereby avoiding the need to sell securities prior to maturity.
   (B)   Liquidity. The investment portfolio shall remain sufficiently liquid
to meet all operating requirements that may be reasonably anticipated. This is
accomplished by structuring the portfolio so that securities mature concurrent
with cash needs to meet anticipated demands. Furthermore, since all possible
cash demands cannot be anticipated, a portion of the portfolio may be placed in
money market funds which offer same day liquidity for short-term funds.
   (C)   Yield. The investment portfolio shall be designed with the objective
of attaining a market rate of return throughout budgetary and economic cycles,
considering the investment risk constraints and liquidity needs. Return on
investment is of secondary importance compared to the safety and liquidity
objectives described above. The core of investments is limited to relatively
low risk securities in anticipation of earning a fair return relative to the
risk being assumed.
(Ord. 23-11, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 37.128 STANDARDS OF CARE.
   (A)   Delegation of authority. The Clerk-Treasurer, the investment officer
of the city, shall be responsible to oversee the day-to-day management of the
city’s investments pursuant to I.C. 36-4-10-4.5. Should the Clerk-Treasurer
elect to select an outside investment advisor, such advisor or firm must be
registered under the Investment Advisor’s Act of 1940, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 80b-
1 through 80b-21. Responsibility for the operation of the investment program is
delegated to the investment officer, who shall act in accordance with
established written procedures and internal controls for the operation of the
investment program consistent with this investment policy. Procedures should
include references to: safekeeping, delivery vs. payment, investment
accounting, repurchase agreements, wire transfer agreements and collateral/
depository agreements.
   (B)   Prudence. The standard of prudence to be used by the investment
officer shall be the “prudent person standard” and shall be applied in the
context of managing all funds of the city. The “prudent person standard”
states, “Investments shall be made with judgement and care, under circumstances
then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence
exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for
investment, considering the probable safety of their capital as well as the
probable income to be derived.”
   (C)   Ethics and conflicts of interest. The investment officer and employees
involved in the investment process shall refrain from personal business
activity that could conflict with the proper execution and management of the
investment program, or that could impair their ability to make impartial
decisions. The investment officer and employees shall disclose any material
interests in financial institutions with which they conduct business. They
shall further disclose any personal financial/investment positions that could
be related to the performance of the investment portfolio.
   (D)   Internal controls.
      (1)   The investment officer is responsible for establishing and
maintaining an internal control structure designed to ensure that the assets of
the city are protected from loss, theft or misuse.
      (2)   The internal control structure shall be designed to provide
reasonable assurance that these objectives are met.
      (3)   The concept of reasonable assurance recognizes that:
         (a)   The cost of a control should not exceed the benefits likely to
be derived; and
         (b)   The valuation of costs and benefits requires estimates and
judgement by management.
      (4)   Accordingly, the investment officer shall establish a process for
an annual independent review by an external auditor to assure compliance with
policies and procedures. The internal controls shall address the following
points:
         (a)   Control of collusion;
         (b)   Separation of transaction authority from accounting and record
keeping;
         (c)   Custodial safekeeping;
         (d)   Avoidance of physical-delivery securities;
         (e)   Clear delegation of authority to subordinate staff members; and
         (f)   Written confirmation of telephone transactions for investments
and wire transfers.
(Ord. 23-11, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 37.129 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS AND BROKERS/DEALERS.
   (A)   A list will be maintained of local financial institutions that are
approved depositories for the receipt of public funds according to the Indiana
Board for Depositories. This list shall be called “Exhibit A” and attached to
this policy and incorporated herein as if set out in full. The city may pass a
resolution pursuant to I.C. 5-13-9-5 expanding the list of approved financial
institutions to include all Indiana depositories approved for the receipt of
public funds according to the Indiana State Board for Depositories.
   (B)   In addition, the city will only use brokers/dealers that meet the
following requirements:
      (1)   Primary dealers or regional dealers that qualify under Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC) Rule 15C3-1 (uniform net capital rule);
      (2)   Capital of no less than $10,000,000;
      (3)   Registered as a dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
being 15 U.S.C. §§ 78a et seq.;
      (4)   A member of National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD); and
      (5)   Proof of state registration.
(Ord. 23-11, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 37.130 SUITABLE AND UNAUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.
   Consistent with I.C. 5-13-9, the following investments will be permitted by
the policy:
   (A)   Securities backed by the full faith and credit of the United States
Treasury or fully guaranteed by the United States and issued by any of the
following:
      (1)   The United States Treasury;
      (2)   A federal agency;
      (3)   A federal instrumentality; and
      (4)   A federal government sponsored enterprise.
   (B)   Securities fully guaranteed and issued by any of the following:
      (1)   A federal agency;
      (2)   A federal instrumentality; and
      (3)   A federal government sponsored enterprise.
   (C)   Municipal securities issued by an Indiana local government entity, a
quasi-governmental entity related to the state or a unit of government,
municipal corporation or special taxing district in Indiana, if the issuer has
not defaulted on any of the issuer’s obligations within 20 years preceding the
date of the purchase in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-2;
   (D)   Money market mutual funds rated AAAm, or its equivalent, by Standard
and Poor’s Corporation or AAA, or its equivalent, by Moody’s Investors
Services, Inc. in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-2.5;
   (E)   Transaction accounts and deposit accounts issued or offered by a
designated depository of the city’s political subdivision; and
   (F)   Local government investment pools in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-11.
(Ord. 23-11, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 37.131 INVESTMENT CONSTRAINTS.
   (A)   Maximum maturities: the city’s investments must have a stated final
maturity of not more than two years pursuant to I.C. 5-13-9-5.6. Because of
inherent difficulties in forecasting cash flow requirements, a portion of the
investment portfolio should be continuously invested in readily available funds
such as local government pools, money market funds or overnight repurchase
agreements to ensure that appropriate liquidity is maintained in order to meet
ongoing obligations.
   (B)   The city may adopt an ordinance, pursuant to I.C. 5-13-9-5.7,
appointing and authorizing the investment officer to make investments having a
stated final maturity that is more than two years but not more than five years
after the date of purchase. The total investments of the city with maturities
of two to five years outstanding at the time of purchase may not exceed 25% of
its total portfolio of public funds invested, including balances and
transaction accounts. Such ordinance expires on the date on which this policy
expires which may not exceed four years.
(Ord. 23-11, passed 6-26-2023)
§ 37.132 REPORTING.
   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare an investment portfolio report at
least annually, including a management summary, that provides an analysis of
the status of the current investment portfolio and the individual transactions
executed over the last year.
(Ord. 23-11, passed 6-26-2023)
CHAPTER 38: FUNDS
Section
Gun Permit Fund
   
38.001   Established; use
   
38.002   Sources
   
38.003   Limitation on Fund
Accident Report Fund
   
38.015   Established; use
   
38.016   Sources
   
38.017   Limitation on Fund
Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
   
38.030   Definitions
   
38.031   Established
   
38.032   Use of funds
Non-Reverting Operating Parks and Recreation Fund
   
38.045   Creation
Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
38.060   Reestablished; use of funds
Cash Reserve Fund
   
38.075   Ratification and creation
   
38.076   Purposes of Fund
   
38.077   Transfer and contributions to Fund
   
38.078   Appropriations
   
38.079   Investment
Non-Reverting Fiber Optic Fund
   
38.090   Established
   
38.091   Use of funds
   
38.092   Appropriations and disbursement
   
38.093   Termination
   
38.094   Effective
Emergency Medical Services Equipment and Training Fund
   
38.105   Establishment of Fund
   
38.106   Deposit and appropriation of funds
   
38.107   Use of funds
   
38.108   Payment of claims
Police Seminar and Training Fund
   
38.120   Establishment of Fund
   
38.121   Deposit and appropriation of funds
   
38.122   Use of funds
   
38.123   Payment of claims
Community Services Project Fund
   
38.135   Establishment of Fund
   
38.136   Credit toward project fund; appropriation of funds
   
38.137   Use of funds
   
38.138   Payment of claims
Non-Reverting Capital Fund
   
38.150   Creation
   
38.151   Limitation on use
   
38.152   Life of Fund; revocation of pre-existing ordinances; effective date
Infrastructure Improvement Fund
   
38.165   Creation
Community Development Fund
   
38.180   Established
   
38.181   Use of funds
   
38.182   Service charges for tax abatement applications
Trail Donation Fund
   
38.195   Established
   
38.196   Use of funds
Facade Improvement Fund
   
38.210   Created
   
38.211   Use of funds
IT-Revenue Fund
   
38.225   Creation
   
38.226   Revenue; expenditures; balance
Fund 269
   
38.240   Creation
Westfield Welcome Fund
   
38.250   Creation
   
38.251   Revenue; expenditures; balance
Greenspace Beautification Fund
   
38.260   Creation
   
38.261   Revenue; expenditures; balance
Mayor’s Grand Gala Fund
   
38.270   Creation
   
38.271   Revenue; expenditures; balance
Capital Projects Fund
   
38.280   Creation
   
38.281   Revenue; expenditures; balance
Communications Fund
   
38.290   Creation
   
38.291   Revenue; expenditures; balance
GUN PERMIT FUND
§ 38.001 ESTABLISHED; USE.
   Pursuant to I.C. 35-47-2-3, there is hereby established a Gun Permit Fund,
and such statute states in part:
      “(b)   The law enforcement agency which accepts an application for a
handgun license shall collect a ten dollar ($10) application fee, five dollars
($5) of which shall be refunded if the license is not issued. Except as
provided in subsection (g), the fee shall be:
         (1)   Deposited into the law enforcement agency’s firearms training
fund or other appropriate training activities fund; and
         (2)   Used by the agency for the purpose of:
            (A)   Training law enforcement officers in the proper use of
firearms or other law enforcement duties; or
            (B)   Purchasing for the law enforcement officers employed by the
law enforcement agency firearms, or firearm related equipment, or both.
   The state board of accounts shall establish rules for the proper accounting
and expenditure of funds collected under this subsection.”
(Prior Code, § 2-301)
§ 38.002 SOURCES.
   The sources of the Gun Permit Fund shall be provided exclusively by the
monies received for handgun license applications.
(Prior Code, § 2-302)
§ 38.003 LIMITATION ON FUND.
   In keeping with the provisions of this subchapter, the following procedures
shall be followed in accounting for the Gun Permit Fund:
   (A)   Issue a receipt, general form no. 352, for each fee collected;
   (B)   Remit receipts to the Clerk-Treasurer at least once a month;
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue an official receipt for remittance
specifying on such receipt the number of general receipts accounted for (for
example: general receipt nos. 1-8, $40);
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall receipt the fees to a separate fund in the
ledger of receipts and disbursements titled “Gun Permit Fund” and deposit such
receipts in the city’s general corporation bank account; and
   (E)   If the application for a handgun license is turned down, a refund
shall be made from the Gun Permit Fund without appropriation upon the basis of
a claim filed; the claim shall be allowed in the proper legal manner. No
refunds for this purpose are to be made from any other fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-303)
ACCIDENT REPORT FUND
§ 38.015 ESTABLISHED; USE.
   By action of the City Council, the Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to
establish the Accident Report Fund, which shall be used exclusively by the
Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 2-336)
Statutory reference:
   Motor vehicle accidents and accident reports, see I.C. 9-26-1 et seq.
§ 38.016 SOURCES.
   The sources of the Accident Report Fund shall be provided exclusively by the
monies collected from the provision of copies of accident and offense reports
completed by the Police Department at the rate of $3, within purview of Council
to modify if desired, per each report.
(Prior Code, § 2-337)
§ 38.017 LIMITATION ON FUND.
   In keeping with the provisions of this subchapter, the following procedures
shall be followed in accounting for the Accident Report Fund:
   (A)   Issue a receipt, general form no. 352, for each fee collected;
   (B)   Remit receipts to the Clerk-Treasurer at least once a month;
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue an official receipt for remittance
specifying on such receipt the number of general receipts accounted for (for
example: general receipt nos. 1-8, $24);
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall receipt the fees to a separate fund in the
ledger of receipts and disbursements titled “Accident Report and Offense Fund”
and deposit such receipts in the city’s general corporation bank account;
   (E)   Expenditures shall be authorized by the City Marshal, limited to the
approved uses provided in the law, and paid without appropriation upon the
basis of a claim filed, allowed and paid in the proper legal manner; and
   (F)   Monies from this fund may be invested by the Clerk-Treasurer and the
interest shall be placed in the general operating fund.
(Prior Code, § 2-338)
CUMULATIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND
§ 38.030 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT. The construction or improvement of any city-owned
property, including, but not limited, to streets, thoroughfares and sewers;
however, it shall not include salaries of any public officials or employees,
except that directly chargeable to such improvements.
(Prior Code, § 2-371)
Statutory reference:
   Cumulative capital improvement fund, see I.C. 36-9-16
   Purposes of funds, see I.C. 36-9-16-2, I.C. 36-9-16-3
§ 38.031 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-9-15.5 et seq., authorizes the creation of a
Cumulative Capital Development Fund for all uses as set out and referenced in
I.C. 36-9-15.5-2.
   (B)   The city shall abide by the provisions as set out therein and the
proposed Fund shall not exceed $0.05 on each $100, within purview of Council to
modify if desired, of assessed valuation. Said tax rate will be levied
beginning with taxes for 2011 payable 2012.
(Prior Code, § 2-372) (Ord. 08-14, passed 7-14-2008; Ord. 11-10, passed 7-12-
2011)
§ 38.032 USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   None of the proceeds received from the state under I.C. 36-9-16 shall
be deposited in the General Fund of the city, nor shall any of the funds so
deposited revert to the General Fund of the city, but such funds shall be
appropriated and used solely for capital improvements of the city.
   (B)   Such funds from the capital improvement fund may also be used to
retire any general obligation bonds of the city issued for the purpose of the
construction of improvements, which would qualify for the use of such funds.
(Prior Code, § 2-373)
NON-REVERTING OPERATING PARKS AND RECREATION FUND
§ 38.045 CREATION.
   There shall be created a Non-Reverting Operating Parks and Recreation Fund
that shall receive and disburse funds for parks and recreation purposes as
authorized in I.C. 36-10-3-22.
(Prior Code, § 2-381) (Ord. 06-39, passed 11-13-2006)
CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND
§ 38.060 REESTABLISHED; USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   There is hereby reestablished the Cumulative Capital Development Fund
for all uses as set out in I.C. 36-9-15.5-2.
   (B)   An ad valorem property tax levy will be imposed and the revenues from
the levy will be retained in the Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
   (C)   In accordance with I.C. 36-9-15.5-6, the Fund will not exceed $0.05 on
each $100 of assessed valuation. Said tax rate will be levied beginning with
taxes for 2022 payable 2023.
   (D)   The Cumulative Capital Development Fund is reestablished until such
time as the Fund is rescinded by City Council action.
   (E)   The funds accumulated in the cumulative capital development fund will
be used for:
      (1)   Firefighting building and equipment;
      (2)   Purchasing, constructing, equipping and maintaining buildings for
public purposes;
      (3)   Constructing and maintaining public ways or sidewalks;
      (4)   Acquisition of rights-of-way for public ways or sidewalks;
      (5)   Constructing, repairing or improving streets, alleys, sidewalks,
curbs, gutters and sewers;
      (6)   Planning, erecting, remodeling, extensions and repair of sewage
disposal plants, and sewer conveyances; and
      (7)   Building, remodeling and repairs of park and recreation facilities;
purchase of land for park and recreation purposes.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (E) above, funds accumulated in the
Cumulative Capital Development Fund may be spent for purposes other than the
purposes stated in division (E) above if the purpose is to protect the public
health, welfare or safety in an emergency situation which demands immediate
action. Money may be spent under the authority of this section only after the
City Council President issues a declaration that the public health, welfare or
safety is in immediate danger that requires the expenditure of money in the
Fund.
(Prior Code, § 2-406) (Ord. 96-08, passed 5-13-1996; Ord. 10-10, passed 7-12-
2010; Ord. 22-20, passed 5-23-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Cumulative capital development fund, see I.C. 36-9-15.5
   Property tax levy, maximum tax rate, see I.C. 36-9-15.5-6
CASH RESERVE FUND
§ 38.075 RATIFICATION AND CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby ratified and established a Cash Reserve Fund to
receive transfers of the city’s utilities surplus earnings in accordance with
I.C. 8-1.5-3-11 (the “Cash Reserve Fund”).
   (B)   The Cash Reserve Fund shall be funded from:
      (1)   Monies determined by the Council to constitute surplus earnings
from the city’s utilities attributable to prior years of operation or
accumulated surplus earning; and
      (2)   Discretionary contributions of surplus earnings from the city’s
utilities’ current operations or current-year surplus earnings as determined by
the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-421) (Ord. 06-60, passed 12-1-2006)
§ 38.076 PURPOSES OF FUND.
   The funds on deposit in the Cash Reserve Fund may be used to meet the city’s
previously-budgeted General Fund requirements and to pay for other unexpected
expenses and emergencies requiring further appropriation from the city’s
General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 2-422) (Ord. 06-60, passed 12-1-2006)
§ 38.077 TRANSFER AND CONTRIBUTIONS TO FUND.
   The Council shall determine the amount of accumulated surplus earnings to be
transferred to the Cash Reserve Fund, which amount shall be approved by the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-423) (Ord. 06-60, passed 12-1-2006)
§ 38.078 APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Council may authorize the expenditure of funds from the Cash Reserve
Fund by appropriations for previously-budgeted expenses and for other
unexpected expenses and emergencies.
(Prior Code, § 2-424) (Ord. 06-60, passed 12-1-2006)
§ 38.079 INVESTMENT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to invest and reinvest those monies
deposited into the cash reserve fund and to document, as required by law,
transfers of such monies to the city’s General Fund, as permitted and required
by law.
(Prior Code, § 2-425) (Ord. 06-60, passed 12-1-2006)
NON-REVERTING FIBER OPTIC FUND
§ 38.090 ESTABLISHED.
   There is established in the city a special non-reverting fund to be known as
the Westfield Fiber Optic Fund (the “Fund”), into which shall be deposited all
operational revenues derived from the licensing of the fiber assets and other
related funds. The Fund shall be maintained separate and apart from all other
funds of the city in accounts approved by the Clerk-Treasurer. The Fund shall
not include any funds derived from tax proceeds.
(Prior Code, § 2-446) (Ord. 08-49, passed 12-8-2008)
§ 38.091 USE OF FUNDS.
   Monies in the Fund shall be used for any and all appropriate operating and
capital expenses related to the fiber assets.
(Prior Code, § 2-447) (Ord. 08-49, passed 12-8-2008)
§ 38.092 APPROPRIATIONS AND DISBURSEMENT.
   The Common Council of the city (the “Common Council”) hereby authorizes the
funds to be appropriated and disbursed under guidelines established by the
board. Warrants for payment of claims shall be presented to the Clerk-Treasurer
by an authorized representative of the board.
(Prior Code, § 2-448) (Ord. 08-49, passed 12-8-2008)
§ 38.093 TERMINATION.
   The fund shall exist until terminated by ordinance of the Common Council.
Proceeds remaining in the fund upon termination shall be distributed to the
city and the school in proportion to each unit’s investment made in the fiber
assets unless another method of distribution is provided in the governing
interlocal agreement in force and effect upon termination.
(Prior Code, § 2-449) (Ord. 08-49, passed 12-8-2008)
§ 38.094 EFFECTIVE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect upon passage and
compliance with I.C. 36-4-6-14.
(Prior Code, § 2-450) (Ord. 08-49, passed 12-8-2008)
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES EQUIPMENT AND TRAINING FUND
§ 38.105 ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND.
   The Emergency Medical Services Equipment and Training Fund is hereby
established.
(Prior Code, § 2-451) (Ord. 94-6, passed 4-11-1994)
§ 38.106 DEPOSIT AND APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS.
   Fees and charges collected in a calendar year in excess of the amount
budgeted to offset emergency medical service expenses shall be credited to the
Emergency Medical Services Equipment and Training Fund by the Clerk-Treasurer,
and such funds are hereby appropriated for the purposes set out in this
division.
(Prior Code, § 2-452) (Ord. 94-6, passed 4-11-1994)
§ 38.107 USE OF FUNDS.
   The Fire Chief is authorized to utilize the funds for the purpose of
acquiring emergency medical services equipment and to provide training
services.
(Prior Code, § 2-453) (Ord. 94-6, passed 4-11-1994)
§ 38.108 PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   The Fire Chief shall present proper claims to the Clerk-Treasurer for the
disbursement of all funds.
(Prior Code, § 2-454) (Ord. 94-6, passed 4-11-1994)
POLICE SEMINAR AND TRAINING FUND
§ 38.120 ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND.
   The Police Seminar and Training Fund is hereby established.
(Prior Code, § 2-461) (Ord. 94-6, passed 4-11-1994)
§ 38.121 DEPOSIT AND APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS.
   The City Marshal is authorized to collect necessary revenues from conducting
training programs and seminars. Such revenues shall be credited to the Police
Seminar and Training Fund by the Clerk-Treasurer, and such funds are hereby
appropriated for the purposes set out in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-462) (Ord. 94-5, passed 3-14-1994)
§ 38.122 USE OF FUNDS.
   The City Marshal is authorized to expend such funds to offset costs of
seminars and training programs.
(Prior Code, § 2-463) (Ord. 94-5, passed 3-14-1994)
§ 38.123 PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   The City Marshal shall present prepared claims to the Clerk-Treasurer for
the disbursement of all funds.
(Prior Code, § 2-464) (Ord. 94-5, passed 3-14-1994)
COMMUNITY SERVICES PROJECT FUND
§ 38.135 ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND.
   The Community Services Project Fund is hereby established.
(Prior Code, § 2-481) (Ord. 97-10, passed 4-14-1997; Ord. 99-01, passed 1-11-
1999)
§ 38.136 CREDIT TOWARD PROJECT FUND; APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   Miscellaneous revenue fees and charges collected in a calendar
year in excess of the community services department’s actual expenses are
eligible to be credited to the Community Services Project Fund.
      (2)   The miscellaneous revenue fees and charges include building permit
fees, Plan Commission fees, Board of Zoning fees and fees for purchase of
zoning books.
   (B)   The first $10,000, within purview of Council to modify if desired, of
miscellaneous revenue fees and charges in excess of actual expenditures for the
Community Services Department in each calendar year will be credited to the
Community Services Project Fund by the Clerk-Treasurer, and said funds are
hereby appropriated for the purposes set out in this chapter.
   (C)   Funds being credited to this Fund will never cause the fund to be in
excess of $50,000, within purview of Council to modify if desired.
(Prior Code, § 2-482) (Ord. 97-10, passed 4-14-1997; Ord. 99-01, passed 1-11-
1999)
§ 38.137 USE OF FUNDS.
   The Community Services Department, with approval from the City Council, is
authorized to utilize the funds for all purposes, both specific and general,
associated with providing continuing professional planning products and
services to the city and/or the township areas.
(Prior Code, § 2-483) (Ord. 97-10, passed 4-14-1997; Ord. 99-01, passed 1-11-
1999)
§ 38.138 PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   The City Manager or department head of community services shall present
proper claims to the Clerk-Treasurer for the disbursement of all funds.
(Prior Code, § 2-484) (Ord. 97-10, passed 4-14-1997; Ord. 99-01, passed 1-11-
1999)
NON-REVERTING CAPITAL FUND
§ 38.150 CREATION.
   There is hereby created pursuant to the home rule authority stated in I.C.
36-1-3-6, a special Non-Reverting Capital Fund for the purpose of maintaining a
fund for special distributions of COIT monies not otherwise encumbered or
expended.
(Prior Code, § 2-506) (Ord. 01-11, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 38.151 LIMITATION ON USE.
   Monies withdrawn from such fund shall be used by the city for such purposes
as required by the city and permitted by law. In the event of termination of
the fund, as provided hereafter, any balance in the fund at such time shall
revert to the General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-507) (Ord. 01-11, passed 8-28-2001)
§ 38.152 LIFE OF FUND; REVOCATION OF PRE-EXISTING ORDINANCES; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The life of the Fund shall be perpetual unless or until terminated by a
subsequent ordinance. The fund balance at year end is non-reverting. Ordinances
or parts thereof in conflict herewith are hereby revoked and rescinded. This
subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after August 28, 2001,
according to the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 2-508) (Ord. 01-11, passed 8-28-2001)
INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT FUND
§ 38.165 CREATION.
   (A)   The Council hereby establishes a fund to be known as the
Infrastructure Improvement Fund which shall be funded by the utility sale
proceeds and proceeds from the investment thereof to be used to fund the city’s
infrastructure improvement program.
   (B)   The Council now recognizes the need to transfer such funds from the
city’s General Fund into the city’s Infrastructure Improvement Fund and hereby
authorizes and directs the transfer of funds and appropriations as indicated:
from General Fund to infrastructure improvement fund, $46,566,737.42.
(Prior Code, § 2-551) (Ord. 14-14, passed 4-14-2014)
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
§ 38.180 ESTABLISHED.
   There is established a Community Development Fund into which all funds
collected from fees for tax abatement shall be deposited.
(Prior Code, § 26-31)
§ 38.181 USE OF FUNDS.
   All funds in the Community Development Fund shall be used to support
expenditures directly related to community development in the city, including
expenses incurred for capital improvements, roads and streets, and other
community projects.
(Prior Code, § 26-32)
§ 38.182 SERVICE CHARGES FOR TAX ABATEMENT APPLICATIONS.
   The amount of service fees charged for processing tax abatement applications
shall be determined and predetermined by resolution of the City Council. All
fees collected shall be deposited into the Community Development Fund, which
shall not revert to the General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 26-33)
TRAIL DONATION FUND
§ 38.195 ESTABLISHED.
   There is established in the city a Trail Donation Fund, #262303 (the
“Fund”), into which shall be deposited all donations from public and corporate
citizens for and other related funds. The Fund shall be maintained separate and
apart from all other funds of the city in accounts approved by the Clerk-
Treasurer. The Fund shall not include any funds derived from tax proceeds.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 5-18-2009)
§ 38.196 USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Monies in the Fund shall be used for any and all appropriate operating
and capital expenses related to the Westfield Trail System as determined by the
Council.
   (B)   The Fund shall exist until terminated by ordinance of the Common
Council. Proceeds remaining in the Fund upon termination shall be deposited in
the General Fund.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 5-18-2009)
FACADE IMPROVEMENT FUND
§ 38.210 CREATED.
   There is established in the city a City Facade Improvement Grant Program
Non-Reverting Fund, #511100 (the “Fund”), into which shall be deposited all
donations from the city as well as public and corporate citizens. The Fund
shall be maintained separate and apart from all other funds of the city in
accounts approved by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 10-22, passed 2-28-2011; Ord. 12-19, passed 7-9-2012)
§ 38.211 USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Monies in the Fund shall be used for any and all appropriate operating
and capital expenses related to the facade improvement program as determined by
the Council. The Council hereby authorizes the transfer of $50,000 from funds
derived from food and beverage tax proceeds collected by the city into the
Fund.
   (B)   The Fund shall exist until terminated by ordinance of the Common
Council. Proceeds remaining in the Fund upon termination shall be placed into
the General Fund.
   (C)   The facade improvement program is amended to allow for the eligibility
of government owned building.
(Ord. 10-22, passed 2-28-2011; Ord. 12-19, passed 7-9-2012)
IT-REVENUE FUND
§ 38.225 CREATION.
   (A)   Creation. Fund No. 270, properly established by Ord. 12-07, shall be
entitled the IT-Revenue Fund.
   (B)   Life of the Fund. The IT-Revenue Fund shall be perpetual until
terminated by a duly passed ordinance of the Council, and any and all monies in
the IT-Revenue Fund at the end of a calendar year shall not revert to another
fund, but shall remain in the IT-Revenue Fund as separate, non-reverting funds.
(Ord. 12-07, passed 3-12-2012; Ord. 24-78, passed 1-13-2025)
§ 38.226 REVENUE; EXPENDITURES; BALANCE.
   (A)   Revenue. The following types of revenue shall be deposited into Fund
No. 270 (IT-Revenue Fund): sale of disposed equipment, GIS services, and
information technology services.
   (B)   Expenditures. Expenditures from Fund No. 270 (IT-Revenue Fund) may be
made for the following purposes: any and all expenditures incurred by the
Informatics Department, either operational or capital.
   (C)   Disposition of Fund balance. Upon termination of the IT-Revenue Fund,
the fund balance shall be disposed of as follows: the General Fund balance.
(Ord. 24-78, passed 1-13-2025)
FUND 269
§ 38.240 CREATION.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to create and maintain Fund
269 for the deposit and management of all sums received from the operation of
the Westfield Training Center for the city.
   (B)   All funds shall be non-reverting and subject to any and all
restrictions pursuant to the terms in place by any policy and procedure of the
city as well as any future order of the Council.
(Ord. 12-08, passed 4-9-2012; Ord. 12-40, passed 12-10-2012)
WESTFIELD WELCOME FUND
§ 38.250 CREATION.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created a new non-reverting fund entitled
the Westfield Welcome Fund, which shall be numbered as Fund No. 255.
   (B)   Life of the Fund. The Westfield Welcome Fund shall be perpetual until
terminated by a duly passed ordinance of the Council, and any and all monies in
the Westfield Welcome Fund at the end of a calendar year shall not revert to
another fund, but shall remain in the Westfield Welcome Fund as separate, non-
reverting funds.
(Ord. 24-27, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 38.251 REVENUE; EXPENDITURES; BALANCE.
   (A)   Revenue. The following types of revenue shall be deposited into the
Westfield Welcome Fund: event, program, registration, and sponsorship fees.
   (B)   Expenditures. Expenditures from the Westfield Welcome Fund may be made
for the following purposes: event expenditures and marketing, and programming
operational expenses.
   (C)   Disposition of Fund balance. Upon termination of the Westfield Welcome
Fund, the fund balance shall be disposed of as follows: all excess expenses/
revenues will be transferred to Fund No. 206.
(Ord. 24-27, passed 4-22-2024)
GREENSPACE BEAUTIFICATION FUND
§ 38.260 CREATION.
   (A)   Creation. The Greenspace Beautification Fund, Fund No. 205, is hereby
properly established.
   (B)   Life of the Fund. The Greenspace Beautification Fund shall be
perpetual until terminated by a duly passed ordinance of the Council, and any
and all monies in the Greenspace Beautification Fund at the end of a calendar
year shall not revert to another fund, but shall remain in the Greenspace
Beautification Fund as separate, non-reverting funds.
(Ord. 24-29, passed 5-28-2024)
§ 38.261 REVENUE; EXPENDITURES; BALANCE.
   (A)   Revenue. The following types of revenue shall be deposited into the
Greenspace Beautification Fund: donations specifically for landscape
enhancement, landscaping and tree planting grant funds, and tree density
credits.
   (B)   Expenditures. Expenditures from the Greenspace Beautification Fund may
be made for the following purposes: tree planting and landscaping enhancement
within city right-of-way or on city property.
   (C)   Disposition of Fund balance. Upon termination of the Greenspace
Beautification Fund, the fund balance shall be disposed of as follows: all
excess expenses/revenues will be transferred to 206-005-347.
(Ord. 24-29, passed 5-28-2024)
MAYOR’S GRAND GALA FUND
§ 38.270 CREATION.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created a new non-reverting fund entitled
the Mayor's Grand Gala Fund, which shall be numbered as Fund No. 254.
   (B)   Life of the Fund. The Mayor's Grand Gala Fund shall be perpetual until
terminated by a duly passed ordinance of the Council, and all monies in the
Mayor's Grand Gala Fund at the end of a calendar year shall not revert to
another fund but shall remain in the Mayor's Grand Gala Fund as separate, non-
reverting funds.
(Ord. 24-35, passed 6-10-2024)
§ 38.271 REVENUE; EXPENDITURES; BALANCE.
   (A)   Revenue. The following types of revenue shall be deposited into the
Mayor's Grand Gala Fund: charitable contributions from organizations and/or
individuals understanding that their donation is tax-deductible; and monies
generated from ticket sales, auction items, the reverse raffle, and any other
activity related to fund generation resulting from the Mayor's Grand Gala.
   (B)   Expenditures. Expenditures from the Mayor's Grand Gala Fund may
include any expense relating to the setup, production, and activations relating
to the Mayor's Grand Gala. Expenditures may also include donations made to the
charitable organizations within the city from revenues collected for that
purpose.
   (C)   Disposition of Fund balance. Upon termination of the Mayor's Grand
Gala Fund, the fund balance shall be disposed of as follows: all excess
expenses/revenues will be transferred to the Advancing Westfield Foundation, a
foundation created to operate and direct the Mayor's Grand Gala moving forward
once its tax-exempt status has been granted by the IRS.
(Ord. 24-35, passed 6-10-2024)
CAPITAL PROJECTS FUND
§ 38.280 CREATION.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created a new non-reverting fund entitled
the Capital Projects Fund, which shall be numbered as Fund No. 266.
   (B)   Life of the Fund. The Capital Projects Fund shall be maintained until
terminated by a duly passed ordinance of the Council, and any and all monies in
the Capital Projects Fund at the end of a calendar year shall not revert to
another fund, but shall remain in the Capital Projects Fund.
(Ord. 25-01, passed 1-27-2025)
§ 38.281 REVENUE; EXPENDITURES; BALANCE.
   (A)   Revenue. The following types of revenue may be deposited into the
Capital Projects Fund: transfers of General Fund revenues, transfers of Food
and Beverage Tax Fund revenues, and other revenues or transfers from city funds
which may be expended for the acquisition, construction, and maintenance of
capital infrastructure.
   (B)   Expenditures. Expenditures from the Capital Projects Fund may be made
for the following purposes: expenditures for the acquisition, construction, and
maintenance of capital infrastructure.
   (C)   Disposition of Fund balance. Upon termination of the Capital Projects
Fund, the unexpended, unencumbered fund balance shall be deposited into Fund
No. 403, Rainy Day Fund.
(Ord. 25-01, passed 1-27-2025)
COMMUNICATIONS FUND
§ 38.290 CREATION.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created a new non-reverting fund entitled
the Communications Fund, which shall be numbered as Fund No. 251.
   (B)   Life of the Fund. The Communications Fund shall be perpetual until
terminated by a duly passed ordinance of the Council, and any and all monies in
the Communications Fund at the end of a calendar year shall not revert to
another fund, but shall remain in the Communications Fund as separate, non-
reverting funds.
(Ord. 25-10, passed 2-24-2025)
§ 38.291 REVENUE; EXPENDITURES; BALANCE.
   (A)   Revenue. The following types of revenue shall be deposited into the
Communications Fund: event, program, registration, and sponsorship fees.
   (B)   Expenditures. Expenditures from the Communications Fund may be made
for the following purposes: event expenditures and marketing, discretionary
stipends, and programming operational expenses.
   (C)   Disposition of Fund balance. Upon termination of the Communications
Fund, the fund balance shall be disposed of as follows: all excess expenses/
revenues will be transferred to the General Fund.
(Ord. 25-10, passed 2-24-2025)
CHAPTER 39: FEES
Section
General Provisions
   
39.001   Fire Department fees
   
39.002   Solid waste removal fees
   
39.003   Non-emergency response and lift assistance fee
Road and Street Improvement Impact Fee
   
39.015   Effective date and limitation on imposition of impact fee
   
39.016   1300 Series—impact fees
   
39.017   Identification of responsible infrastructure agency
   
39.018   Establishment of impact zone
   
39.019   Zone improvement plan
   
39.020   Establishment of road impact fee
   
39.021   Impact fee assessment date
   
39.022   Impact fee due date; installment payment plan
   
39.023   Credit in lieu of payment; exemptions
   
39.024   Lien rights established
   
39.025   Form of receipt for payment
   
39.026   Impact Fee Review Board
   
39.027   Refunds
   
39.028   Appeals
   
39.029   Road and Street Thoroughfare Fund
   
39.030   Use of impact fees
   
39.031   Amendment and review
Parks and Recreation Impact Fee
   
39.040   Conditional repeal and limitation on imposition of park infrastructure
impact fee
   
39.041   Establishment of impact zone
   
39.042   Establishment of impact fee
   
39.043   Credit in lieu of payment; exemptions
   
39.044   Impact fee due upon issuance of structural building permit
   
39.045   Lien rights established
   
39.046   Form of receipt
   
39.047   Appeals
   
39.048   Parks and Recreation Fund
   
39.049   Use of impact fees collected pursuant to this subchapter
   
39.050   Westfield Impact Fee Review Board
   
39.051   Series impact fees
   
39.052   Effective date
Police Department
   
39.065   Police Department fees
Park and Recreation
   
39.080   Miscellaneous fees
   
39.081   The Grand Park Sports Complex fee schedule
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 39.001 FIRE DEPARTMENT FEES.
   (A)   Ambulance fees.
 
BLS                        $1,500
ALS                        $1,950
ALS-2                      $2,250
ALS-Non                    $800
Mileage for ambulance fees $37.50/per mile
 
   (B)   EMS special events billing rates. BLS services include an AED, basic
airway adjuncts, oxygen, equipment for bleeding control and injury
immobilization. ALS services include all BLS service equipment with the
addition of ECG monitoring/defibrillation/cardioversion/pacing, equipment for
advanced airway management including endotracheal intubation, vascular access
(IV/IO), medication administration.
 
BLS-1 EMS provider with radio and BLS equipment       $100/provider per hour
ALS-1 paramedic with radio and ALS equipment          $200/provider per hour
WFD EMS 80 (ATV) or EMS 81 (cart), staff not included $50 per hour
M380 or M389 (ambulance), staff not included          $100 per hour
EMS Chief or Captain for incident support             $100 per hour
 
   (C)   Fire inspection fees for new business.
 
Occupancy permit           $104
If final inspection fails:
   1st re-inspection    $104
   2nd re-inspection    $208
   3rd re-inspection    $500
Apartments                 $102 per building, plus $102 per unit in each
                           building
 
   (D)   Fire inspection fees for existing businesses.
 
Annual inspection                          $0
   1st re-inspection (approx. 30 days)  $0
   2nd re-inspection (approx. 15 days)  $100
   3rd and all subsequent (approx. 5 day$250
 
   (E)   Report fees.
 
Basic NFIRS          $10
EMS reports          $20
Report with pictures $30
 
   (F)   Miscellaneous fees.
 
False alarm fees (commercial)
   3rd alarm                       $300
   4th alarm                       $400
   5th alarm                       $500
Failure to implement a required fire  $350 per day/per person - IDHS notified
watch
Occupancy without an occupancy permit $250 per day
Tampering with a life safety system   $500 each occurrence - ICHS and WPD
                                      notified
 
   (G)   Hourly fee for fire and EMS apparatus including hazmat response.
Westfield Fire Department bills for incidents involving the release of
hazardous materials in accordance with the state spiller pay law and the county
spiller pay ordinance. All billing is at the discretion of the Westfield Fire
Department.
 
Engines/ladder/decon
(For each vehicle that responds to $250/first hour
incident)
                                  $150/per hour after first hour
Battalion/command unit vehicle     $100/first hour
                                  $50/per hour after first hour
                                   Spill containment supplies will be billed at
                                  our cost from our vendors per state code and
                                   may include $200 shipping cost
 
(Prior Code, § 38-200) (Ord. 17-38, passed 10-9-2017; Ord. 22-64, passed 12-27-
2022; Ord. 24-74, passed 12-23-2024)
§ 39.002 SOLID WASTE REMOVAL FEES.
   (A)   Constant charges.
 
Collection Fee 2021   2022   2023   2024   2025
              $12.42 $12.42 $12.67 $12.93 $13.23
Disposal Fee      Included in collection fee above
 
   (B)   Other charges. In addition to the fees set forth above, all customers
located within the corporation limits of the city shall be billed the following
charges when deemed appropriate.
      (1)   Administrative account change fee. All customers shall be subject
to an administrative account change of $10 when the customer requests changes
to be made to their account (for example, name change, billing address change
and the like).
      (2)   Administrative fee. All customers shall be subject to a monthly
administrative fee of $1 to recoup administrative costs associated with
management and billing. At no time shall this fee exceed $2 per month.
      (3)   Service cycle. All customers will pay for service quarterly in
advance. On a new start your first bill will be prorated to include the prior
month(s) in the previous quarter.
      (4)   User rates and charges.
         (a)   The rates and charges for associated trash/recycling service and
fees will be billed to the owner of record of the property served, unless
otherwise requested by the owners, but such billing accommodation will not
relieve the owner from liability if payment is not made as required. Any owner
of property served, shall have the right to examine the collection records of
the city for the purpose of determining whether the rates and charges have been
paid by other persons, provided that such examination shall be made in the
office in which the records are kept and during the hours that the office is
open for business.
         (b)   All bills shall be due and payable as indicated on the bill.
Bills unpaid after the due date shall include a collection charge of 10% on
unpaid billing.
   (C)   Charges and penalties.
      (1)   All customers submitting checks returned as non-negotiable or
deemed to have insufficient funds will be charged $30. Said fee will be added
to the proceeding billing cycle and become part of the balance due.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty provided by this code of
ordinances, any delinquent charges and/or fees may be collected through the
Noblesville City Court, the Hamilton County Circuit or Superior Courts and be
subject to the addition of court costs and any attorney fees necessary for the
collection thereof.
   (D)   Miscellaneous. The city may recognize any credit or suspension of
services designated by the provider of services and will bill the property
accordingly. However, the city shall not be required to issue a credit for less
than $10, combined (stormwater/trash/administration fee).
(Ord. 20-53, passed 12-28-2020)
§ 39.003 NON-EMERGENCY RESPONSE AND LIFT ASSISTANCE FEE.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      LIFT ASSIST. A response by the city's Fire Department emergency response
unit to a residential care facility for the purpose of lifting an uninjured
fallen person, who does not require emergency medical treatment or
transportation, to a pre-fall position, or otherwise physically moving the
uninjured person who does not require emergency medical treatment or
transportation.
      NON-EMERGENCY RESPONSE. A response by the city's Fire Department
emergency response unit to a residential care facility when there is not an
emergency medical condition or medical necessity justifying the presence of the
emergency unit at the facility, based upon an assessment by the officer in
charge or lead paramedic of the emergency response unit. This term shall
include, but not be limited to, responses to calls for personal physical
assistance that do not require professional medical attention on an emergency
basis, such as calls for transportation to a medical facility or care center
for non-emergency medical treatment, or other health care calls more
appropriately addressed to a nurse, personal care attendant, or facility
employee.
      RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY. A facility that is required by state law to
maintain a license to operate a skilled nursing home, skilled nursing facility,
nursing home, assisted living facility, long term care facility, or extended
care facility.
   (B)   Determination of non-emergency response or lift assist. Based upon the
assessment undertaken by the officer in charge or lead paramedic of an
emergency response unit dispatched to a residential care facility and their
determination that no emergency medical condition or emergency medical
necessity exists and that the response qualifies as a non-emergency lift assist
or non-emergency response, the officer in charge or lead paramedic shall
declare the incident a non-emergency lift assist or a non-emergency response in
their incident report.
   (C)   Assessment of fee. The Fire Chief, or designee, shall be authorized to
issue a fee, to be billed to the residential care facility, for each incident
determined to be a non-emergency response or a lift assist at a residential
care facility. For a first, second, or third offense per calendar year, the fee
shall be $500 per non-emergency response or non-emergency lift assist. For a
fourth or subsequent offense per calendar year, the fee shall be $1,000 per
non-emergency response or non-emergency lift assist.
   (D)   Administrative decision. Notice of the imposition of fees under the
provisions of this section shall be sent to the owner or management of the
residential care facility where the incident occurred. The owner, manager, or
chief administrative agent regularly assigned and employed on the premises at
the time of the occurrence shall be presumed to be the appropriate person at
the residential care facility to receive the notice, unless the city is
notified otherwise.
   (E)   Waiver of imposition. In the event the Fire Chief, or designee,
determines that the city's assessment or determination of a response as a non-
emergency response or lift assist was in error or there were other mitigating
factors of which the commanding officer was unaware at the time of the
incident, the Fire Chief, or designee, may waive the imposition of the
applicable fee(s).
   (F)   Appeal from administrative decision. Any party subject to a fee under
this section shall have a right of appeal to the city's Board of Public Works
and Safety; a notice of appeal must be submitted in writing no later than ten
days after issuance of the notice of the fee and must be directed to the city's
Legal Department at 2728 East 171st Street, Westfield, IN 46074. The written
appeal should include the fee reference number and the party's reasoning why
the determination of notice of non-emergency response or lift assist should be
reconsidered. After receipt of a written appeal and at a subsequent meeting,
the Board of Public Works and Safety shall make its final determination, which
it shall report to the appellant in writing. Unless a notice of appeal is
properly filed in accordance with this section within ten days of the issuance
of the notice of fee, the fee shall be deemed final.
(Ord. 25-43, passed 7-14-2025)
ROAD AND STREET IMPROVEMENT IMPACT FEE
§ 39.015 EFFECTIVE DATE AND LIMITATION ON IMPOSITION OF IMPACT FEE.
   This subchapter shall become effective on January 22, 2025 ("effective
date"), which date is not earlier than six months after the date of adoption of
Ord. 24-43. This subchapter shall expire and become void five years after the
effective date, and no road impact fee may be collected after such time unless
a replacement impact fee ordinance is adopted by the Common Council of the City
of Westfield, Indiana.
(Ord. 24-43, passed 7-22-2024)
§ 39.016 1300 SERIES—IMPACT FEES.
   The Council specifically acknowledges the existence of I.C. 36-7-4-1300
through I.C. 36-7-4-1342 ("1300 Series"), that regulates the imposition of
impact fees by municipal corporations within the State of Indiana. It is the
intent of the Council and the City to comply with the 1300 Series, and this
subchapter shall be construed in all respect to be consistent with the 1300
Series. The substantive and procedural requirements of the 1300 Series shall
control in the event they conflict with this subchapter.
(Ord. 24-43, passed 7-22-2024)
§ 39.017 IDENTIFICATION OF RESPONSIBLE INFRASTRUCTURE AGENCY.
   The city is the infrastructure agency, as the term is defined in I.C. 36-7-
4-1310, that is responsible for acquiring, constructing, and providing road
infrastructure to the public in the city.
(Ord. 24-43, passed 7-22-2024)
§ 39.018 ESTABLISHMENT OF IMPACT ZONE.
   (A)   There is hereby established an impact zone for road infrastructure in
the city ("impact zone"), the borders of which are co-terminus with the
existing corporate boundaries of the city, as they may be extended from time to
time through annexation. The city has planning and zoning jurisdiction over the
impact zone. The Council specifically finds that there is a functional
relationship between the components of the city's road infrastructure in the
impact zone and the city's road infrastructure provides a reasonably uniform
benefit throughout the impact zone as of the effective date of this subchapter.
The Council further finds that all areas within the impact zone are contiguous,
as required by I.C. 36-7-4-1316.
   (B)   This subchapter applies to any development that is located within the
impact zone and for which the city requires a structural building permit. This
subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Developments meeting the requirements set forth in I.C. 36-7-4-1322
(g);
      (2)   Improvements which do not require a structural building permit;
      (3)   Improvements that do not create a need for additional road
infrastructure, including the erection of a sign, the construction of a fence,
or the interior renovation of a building not resulting in a change in use; and
      (4)   Unless requested by the landowner, "qualified property" as the term
is defined in I.C. 36-1-8-18.
(Ord. 24-43, passed 7-22-2024)
§ 39.019 ZONE IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   As a precondition to the adoption of this subchapter, the city engaged
A&F Engineering to prepare the Westfield Road Impact Fee Zone Improvement Plan
("zone improvement plan"), dated June 2024, and which is a comprehensive and
detailed road impact analysis for the impact zone.
   (B)   The Council now finds that the zone improvement plan contains and
complies with all of the statutory requirements outlined in I.C. 36-7-4-1318.
   (C)   The zone improvement plan was adopted and became effective when the
Council adopted the zone improvement plan as part of the Westfield-Washington
Township Comprehensive Plan pursuant to Res. No. 24-127.
   (D)   The zone improvement plan, as adopted, is incorporated herein by this
reference. The Council also hereby makes a part of the record of these
proceedings all of the data collected, calculations made, and conclusions
reached by A&F Engineering in the process of developing the zone improvement
plan.
   (E)   The employees of the city shall make the zone improvement plan
publicly available as a public record of the city for review during the city's
regular business hours.
(Ord. 24-43, passed 7-22-2024)
§ 39.020 ESTABLISHMENT OF ROAD IMPACT FEE.
   Based upon the analyses in the zone improvement plan, the Council now finds,
determines, establishes, and adopts a road impact fee in the amount of $362.44
per 24-hour generated trip. The number of 24-hour weekday trips generated by
each new development will be determined on a case-by-case basis using the
methods and procedures outlined in the most recent edition of the ITE Trip
Generation Manual, ITE Trip Generation Handbook and relevant information
provided by the developer. The number of generated 24-hour trips for the new
development is then multiplied by the impact fee to determine the collected
road impact fee ("impact fee").
(Ord. 24-43, passed 7-22-2024)
§ 39.021 IMPACT FEE ASSESSMENT DATE.
   If the fee payer so requests, the amount of the impact fee shall be assessed
not later than 30 days after the earlier of: (1) the date the fee payer obtains
an improvement location permit for the development; or (2) the date the fee
payer voluntarily submits to the city a development plan for the development
and evidence that the property is properly zoned for the proposed development.
Such plan shall be in the form prescribed by the Westfield-Washington Township
Unified Development Ordinance and shall contain reasonably sufficient detail
for the city to calculate the impact fee. If no such request is made, the
impact fee shall be assessed at the time the structural building permit is
issued. For purposes of this section, ASSESSED shall mean the act of
calculating the amount of the total impact fee.
(Ord. 24-43, passed 7-22-2024)
§ 39.022 IMPACT FEE DUE DATE; INSTALLMENT PAYMENT PLAN.
   (A)   An impact fee imposed pursuant to this subchapter shall be due and
payable on the date of issuance of the structural building permit from the city
for the new development on which the impact fee is imposed.
   (B)   For a phased development, the impact fee shall be prorated for
purposes of payment according to the impact of the parcel for which the
structural building permit is issued in relation to the total impact of the
development. Only the prorated portion of the assessed impact fee is due and
payable on the issuance of the permit.
   (C)   A fee payer may be eligible to pay the impact fee in installment
payments if the impact fee is greater than $5,000. In accordance with I.C. 36-
7-4-1324, an installment payment plan under this section must at least allow
that:
      (1)   A maximum of $5,000 or 5% of the impact fee, whichever is greater,
may become payable on the date the structural building permit is issued for the
development on which the fee is imposed;
      (2)   The first installment payment may not become due and payable less
than one year after the date the structural building permit is issued; and
      (3)   The last installment payment may not become due and payable less
than two years after the date the structural building permit is issued.
   (D)   A reasonable rate of interest, equal to the prejudgment rate of
interest in effect at the time the interest accrues, may be charged if a fee
payer elects to pay the impact fee in installments. Any such interest accrues
only on the portion of the impact fee that is outstanding and does not begin to
accrue until the date the structural building permit is issued for the
development or the part of the development on which the impact fee is imposed.
If all or part of the installment is not paid when due and payable, the amount
of the installment shall be increased on the first day after the installment is
due and payable by a penalty amount equal to 10% of the installment amount that
is overdue, and interest shall be charged on said penalty amount.
(Ord. 24-43, passed 7-22-2024)
§ 39.023 CREDIT IN LIEU OF PAYMENT; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   A fee payer may receive a credit against the impact fee if the owner
or developer of the development constructs or provides road infrastructure or
any other "improvement," as the term is defined in I.C. 36-7-4-1335(a), after
January 1, 1989 to the city for the benefit of the public, so long as the road
infrastructure or improvement is constructed pursuant to the zone improvement
plan or in accordance with the city's specifications in force under the city's
jurisdiction at the time.
   (B)   The amount of the credit shall equal the sum of the cost of
constructing or providing the road infrastructure or improvement and the fair
market value of land, real property interests, and site improvements provided
to the city.
   (C)   The amount of the credit shall be determined at the date the impact
fee is assessed. If an assessment is not requested by the fee payer, the amount
of the credit shall be determined at the time the structural building permit is
issued. The amount of the credit shall be determined jointly by the city and
the person constructing or providing the infrastructure or improvement after
obtaining a verified certification from a registered engineer, architect, or
contractor of the actual costs of constructing and providing the road
infrastructure or improvement to the city.
   (D)   The amount of a credit may be increased or decreased for the reasons
stated in I.C. 36-7-4-1335(e).
   (E)   If the person providing the road infrastructure or improvement for the
credit is not the fee payer, the person providing the infrastructure or
improvement may allocate all or some of the credit to the fee payer by
submitting written and notarized documentation certifying the same in writing.
   (F)   The person providing the road infrastructure or improvement may
designate in writing a reasonable and administratively feasible method of
allocating credits to future fee payers.
   (G)   If the parties cannot agree on the amount of the credit, the fee payer
or the person constructing or providing the infrastructure or improvement may
file a petition for determination of the amount of the credit with the city's
Impact Fee Review Board ("Board"), established under § 39.026, not later than
30 days after the structural building permit is issued for the development on
which the impact fee is imposed. The petition must be made on the form
prescribed by the Board. A petition under this section may be made as part of
an appeal proceeding under §
39.028.
   (H)   Not later than 30 days after the city receives a copy of a timely-
filed petition for determination of a credit amount, the city shall provide the
Board with its response to the petition, on the form prescribed by the Board.
   (I)   The Board shall determine the amount of the credit not later than 30
days after the response is filed.
   (J)   A fee payer aggrieved by a final determination of the Board may appeal
to the Circuit or Superior Courts of Hamilton County.
(Ord. 24-43, passed 7-22-2024)
§ 39.024 LIEN RIGHTS ESTABLISHED
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1325, the city acquires a lien against the real
estate which is the subject of the impact fee on the date a structural building
permit is issued. Upon adoption, this subchapter shall be recorded, and
thereafter, it shall constitute constructive notice of the lien rights of the
city with respect to a parcel of real estate on which an impact fee is
delinquent. The city may, in its discretion, file a specific instrument setting
forth its lien rights with respect to a parcel of real estate on which an
impact fee is delinquent, and such instrument shall constitute actual notice in
addition to the constructive notice provided for by the recording of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 24-43, passed 7-22-2024)
§ 39.025 FORM OF RECEIPT FOR PAYMENT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the city shall issue a receipt for any and all impact
fees collected on the following form:
                          (fee payer) made payment to the City of Westfield,
Indiana, this       day of
                         , 20      in the total sum of ____________ ($ ______ )
in (full/partial) satisfaction of impact fees due pursuant to Ordinance No. __
relating to improvements to be constructed on the real estate located on or
around                                     and subject to lien rights in favor
of the City of Westfield, Indiana in the event of partial payment with payments
remaining due. The remaining balance due (if any) is in the following amount:
($                     ).
                                                                
   Clerk-Treasurer, City of Westfield, Indiana
(Ord. 24-43, passed 7-22-2024)
§ 39.026 IMPACT FEE REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   An Impact Fee Review Board ("Board") is hereby re-established.
The Mayor shall appoint three citizen members to the Board not later than six
months after adoption of this subchapter. The Board members shall consist of
the following:
         (a)   One member who is a real estate broker licensed in Indiana;
         (b)   One member who is an engineer licensed in Indiana; and
         (c)   One member who is a certified public accountant.
      (2)   A Board member may not be a member of the Westfield-Washington
Township Advisory Plan Commission.
   (B)   Board members shall serve a term of one year commencing upon the date
of their appointment. Each member shall continue to serve until his/her
successor is appointed.
   (C)   In the event a member of the Board has a conflict of interest, the
Mayor shall appoint a temporary replacement member who meets the qualifications
of the member being temporarily replaced to dispose of the petition giving rise
to the conflict of interest. If a member of the Board dies, resigns, or vacates
office, the Mayor shall appoint a replacement member meeting the qualifications
of the member being replaced. The new member shall serve for the remainder of
the vacated term.
   (D)   The Board is authorized to adopt by-laws, rules, regulations, and
procedures as it may deem necessary for the proper conduct of its proceedings
and the carrying out of its duties.
   (E)   Board members shall receive no salary but shall be entitled to
reimbursement for any expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their
duties.
   (F)   The Board shall conduct its review of the amount of an impact fee
assessed, the amount of a refund, and the amount of a credit using the
procedures established in this subchapter and I.C. 36-7-4-1338(c).
   (G)   The Board shall have the powers and duties established in I.C. 36-7-4-
1338 and all other applicable provisions of the 1300 Series governing impact
fees.
(Ord. 24-43, passed 7-22-2024)
§ 39.027 REFUNDS.
   (A)   A fee payer may be entitled to a refund of an impact fee for the
reasons stated in I.C. 36-7-4-1332.
   (B)   An application for a refund must be filed with the city's Director of
Public Works not later than two years after the right to a refund accrues under
I.C. 36-7-4-1332. The Director of Public Works will respond to the application
within 30 days of receipt by either rejecting the application or issuing a
refund in part or in full.
   (C)   If a refund is approved, in whole or in part, the fee payer is
entitled to interest from the date on which the impact fee was paid to the date
the refund is issued. The interest rate shall be equal to the prejudgment rate
of interest in effect at the time the interest accrues.
   (D)   If the city rejects the refund or approves only a partial refund, the
fee payer may appeal the decision to the Board within 60 days of the city's
decision. An appeal application shall be filed with the Board on the prescribed
form. The Board will hold a hearing on the appeal within 45 days of receipt of
the appeal application. After a hearing, the Board will determine the amount of
the refund, if any, including interest from the date the impact fee was paid to
the date the refund is issued. A party aggrieved by a final decision of the
Board after a hearing may appeal the decision to the Hamilton County Circuit or
Superior Court.
(Ord. 24-43, passed 7-22-2024)
§ 39.028 APPEALS.
   (A)   A person against whom an impact fee is assessed may appeal the amount
of the impact fee to the Board. An appeal of the amount of an impact fee may be
made for the following reasons:
      (1)   A fact assumption used in determining the amount of an impact fee
is incorrect; or
      (2)   The amount of the impact fee is greater than the amount allowed
under I.C. 36-7-4-1320, 36-7-4-1321 and 36-7-4-1322.
   (B)   To commence an appeal, the fee payer must file a petition for review
of the impact fee on the prescribed form with the Board not later than 30 days
after issuance of the structural building permit for the development for which
the impact fee is assessed. The petition must specify the following:
      (1)   A description of the new development on which the impact fee has
been assessed;
      (2)   All facts related to the assessment of the impact fee; and
      (3)   The reasons the petitioner believes the amount of the impact fee
assessed is erroneous or is greater than the amount allowed by the fee
limitations set forth in the 1300 Series.
   (C)   The petition shall be filed with the Clerk-Treasurer and be
accompanied by a filing fee of $100. The filing fee may be refunded in full if:
      (1)   The fee payer prevails;
      (2)   The amount of the impact fee or the reductions or credits against
the fee is adjusted by the city, the Board, or a court; and
      (3)   The body ordering the adjustment finds that the amount of the fee,
reductions, or credits were arbitrary or capricious.
   (D)   Upon receipt of a timely-filed petition on the prescribed form, the
Board shall provide a copy of the petition to the city. The city shall provide
the Board with a complete response to the petition on the form prescribed by
the Board, not later than 30 days after the city's receipt of the petition. The
Board shall immediately forward a copy of the city's response to the
petitioner. The city's response must indicate:
      (1)   Agreement or disagreement with each item indicated on the petition
for review; and
      (2)   The reasons the city believes the amount of the fee assessed is
correct.
   (E)   The Board shall review the petition and the city's response and
determine the appropriate amount of the impact fee not later than 30 days after
submission of the city's response.
   (F)   A petitioner aggrieved by a final determination of the Board may
appeal the Board's decision to the Hamilton County Superior or Circuit Courts.
If the impact fee is vacated by judgment of the court, the assessment of the
impact fee shall be remanded to the Board for correction of the impact fee
assessment and further proceedings in accordance with law.
   (G)   If a petition for a review or an appeal of an impact fee assessment is
pending, the impact fee is not due and payable until after the petition or
appeal is finally adjudicated and the amount of the impact fee is determined.
   (H)   The city may not deny issuance of a structural building permit on the
basis that an impact fee has not been paid or condition issuance of the permit
on the payment of an impact fee. However, in the case of an impact fee of
$1,000 or less, the city may require the fee payer to pay the impact fee or
bring an appeal under this section before the city issues a structural building
permit for the development for which the impact fee was assessed.
(Ord. 24-43, passed 7-22-2024)
§ 39.029 ROAD AND STREET THOROUGHFARE FUND.
   (A)   The city has established a Road and Street Thoroughfare Fund ("Fund")
in compliance with I.C. 36-7-4-1329. All impact fees received under this
subchapter shall be deposited in the Fund.
   (B)   Money in the Fund at the end of the city's fiscal year shall remain in
the fund, and any interest earned by the Fund shall be deposited in the fund.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall manage the Fund according to the provisions
of the 1300 Series. The Clerk-Treasurer shall annually report to the Westfield-
Washington Township Advisory Plan Commission and the city the amount of money
in the Fund and the total receipts and disbursements of the Fund.
(Ord. 24-43, passed 7-22-2024)
§ 39.030 USE OF IMPACT FEES.
   Any and all impact fees collected pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter may be utilized for the following purposes:
   (A)   Providing funds to the city or the Board of Public Works for the
provision of new road infrastructure that is necessary to serve the new
development in the impact zone from which the impact fee is collected and is
identified in the zone improvement plan;
   (B)   An amount not to exceed 5% of the annual collections of the impact fee
to be utilized for expenses incurred by the city for the consulting services
used to establish this subchapter;
   (C)   To pay any refund due pursuant to the terms of this subchapter; and
   (D)   To pay the debt service cost of an obligation issued to provide new
road infrastructure described in division (A) above.
(Ord. 24-43, passed 7-22-2024)
§ 39.031 AMENDMENT AND REVIEW.
   The impact fee provided for herein is based upon data which, in large part,
is subject to inflation and other economic and market forces over which the
city has no control. The Council may cause a review to be made by city staff or
consultants as may be required, to determine the continuing validity of the
impact fee, the impact zone, and the zone improvement plan. The Council shall
consider and adopt such amendments as are necessary to cause a substantive
compliance with all constitutional and statutory requirements. To the extent
required by the facts and circumstances, this process shall include the steps
necessary to update the zone improvement plan and the Westfield-Washington
Township Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 24-43, passed 7-22-2024)
PARKS AND RECREATION IMPACT FEE
§ 39.040 CONDITIONAL REPEAL AND LIMITATION ON IMPOSITION OF PARK INFRASTRUCTURE
IMPACT FEE.
   This subchapter shall expire and become void five years after its effective
date, as required by I.C. 36-7-4-1340, unless action is undertaken to replace
it consistent with the provisions of state law which contemplates a replacement
impact fee ordinance. Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1340, this subchapter is derived
from a replacement impact fee ordinance of the 2013 Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 40-51) (Ord. 12-31, passed 10-29-2012; Ord. 17-49, passed 1-8-
2018)
§ 39.041 ESTABLISHMENT OF IMPACT ZONE.
   (A)   There is hereby established for the city a park infrastructure impact
zone (as defined in I.C. 36-7-4-1307), the borders of which are co-terminus
with the existing corporate boundary of the city, as they may be extended from
time to time through annexation, over all of which the city exercises planning
and zoning jurisdiction. The Council specifically finds that there is a
functional relationship between the components of the parks element of the zone
improvement plan and that such park improvement recommendations provide a
reasonably uniform benefit to all of the citizens of the city throughout the
impact zone as of the effective date of this subchapter. The city further finds
that all areas within the impact zone are contiguous, as required by I.C. 36-7-
4-1316.
   (B)   Except as provided below, this subchapter shall apply uniformly to all
residential developments within the impact zone hereby established for which
the city may require a structural building permit and which create a need for
new or additional park infrastructure. This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Developments meeting the requirements set forth in I.C. 36-7-4-1322
(g);
      (2)   Improvements which do not require a structural building permit;
      (3)   Improvements which do not create a need for new or additional park
infrastructure, including the erection of a sign, structures or fences, or the
alteration, renovation or expansion of an improvement where the use, or
intensity thereof, has not changed; and
      (4)   The replacement of a destroyed or partially destroyed improvement;
provided, however, that the replacement improvement does not create a need for
new and additional park infrastructure over and above the infrastructure needed
for the original improvement prior to the destruction or partial destruction
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 40-52) (Ord. 12-31, passed 10-29-2012)
§ 39.042 ESTABLISHMENT OF IMPACT FEE.
   (A)   Based upon the analyses contained in the zone improvement plan adopted
in Resolution 127 which is incorporated here by reference and made a part of
the comprehensive plan in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-1318 and I.C. 36-7-4-500
et seq., the city finds, determines, establishes and adopts that the cost per
dwelling unit within the impact zone is in the amount set out in the below
impact fee schedule:
 
July 8, 2023, to July 7, 2024 $3,417
July 8, 2024, to July 7, 2025 $3,485.34
July 8, 2025, to July 7, 2026 $3,555.05
July 8, 2026, to July 7, 2027 $3,626.15
July 8, 2027, to July 7, 2028 $3,698.67
 
   (B)   The city hereby incorporates all of the data collected, the
calculations made, and the conclusions reached when developing the zone
improvement plan, and directs city employees to make such data and other
information available for review during regular business hours and by posting
the same on the city’s website.
   (C)   In the event any parcel of real estate considered in the creation of
the zone improvement plan undergoes a change in use, redevelopment, or a
modification that requires a structural building permit and creates a need for
new infrastructure, an impact fee shall only be assessed for the increase in
the burden on infrastructure.
(Prior Code, § 40-53) (Ord. 12-31, passed 10-29-2012; Ord. 17-49, passed 1-8-
2018; Ord. 22-66, passed 12-27-2022)
§ 39.043 CREDIT IN LIEU OF PAYMENT; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Any person or entity obligated to pay a fee pursuant to the terms of
this subchapter shall have the option of financing, constructing and dedicating
actual park infrastructure instead of paying all or part of the impact fee
which may be due, so long as such financing, construction and dedication are
accomplished pursuant to the city’s parks and recreation master plan and in
accordance with the park specifications for such park improvements within the
city at that time. Such fee payer, or other person or entity providing the
infrastructure or improvement, shall be given credit upon a verified
certification from a registered engineer, architect or contractor of the actual
costs of planning, financing, constructing and dedicating such park
improvements or infrastructure to the city. Such certification shall be
presented prior to the issuance of any structural building or improvement
location permit. In the event the actual cost of such planning, financing,
construction and dedication do not equal the amount of the impact fee due
pursuant to the calculation provided for in the schedule set forth in §
39.042, the remaining balance shall be due by such fee payer to the city in
accordance with the provisions this subchapter.
   (B)   Credits against impact fees otherwise due shall be allowed pursuant to
this section for all infrastructure and improvements constructed or furnished
in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-1313 and I.C. 36-7-4-1335. A fee payer or other
person or entity responsible for installing infrastructure or improvements may
designate in writing a method of allocating its credits to future fee payers
who may be successors in interest to the credits earned by the fee payer or
others, as part of the certification provided above.
   (C)   Any person or entity otherwise obligated to pay the fee established by
this subchapter whose property was totally or partially destroyed by fire,
storm or other casualty beyond their control, shall be exempt from paying the
impact fee if they repair or replace the destroyed structure without creating a
burden on infrastructure greater than the burden imposed by the destroyed
structure. In the event it creates any additional burden, the impact fee shall
be calculated based only on the increased burden created by the structure.
(Prior Code, § 40-54) (Ord. 12-31, passed 10-29-2012)
§ 39.044 IMPACT FEE DUE UPON ISSUANCE OF STRUCTURAL BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   The impact fee imposed pursuant to the terms of this subchapter shall
be due and payable upon the issuance of a structural building permit by the
city. It is understood that a structural building permit is synonymous with the
term “structural building permit” as used in I.C. 36-7-4-1323, in that the
issuance of a structural building permit authorizes the applicant to commence
construction activities, structural and otherwise. The entire impact fee which
is calculated pursuant to the terms of this subchapter shall be due at the time
of permit issuance unless the amount of the fee upon calculation is greater
than $5,000, within purview of Council to modify if desired, in which case an
installment plan may be requested by the applicant in accordance with the terms
of I.C. 36-7-4-1324.
   (B)   The Westfield Impact Fee Review Board (the “Review Board”), as
identified in §
39.050, shall establish specific rules for installment payments consistent with
state law. The interest rate on any installment plan or deferred payment shall
be the pre-judgment rate of interest set forth in state law.
   (C)   If a fee payer so requests, the amount of the impact fee shall be
assessed upon the voluntary submission of a development plan or upon the
issuance of the structural building permit, whichever is earlier. For purposes
of this section, ASSESSMENT means the act of calculating the amount of the
impact fee which shall be due. The city shall make such assessment within 30
days of the date of such voluntary request or at the issuance of the structural
building permit with or without a request.
(Prior Code, § 40-55) (Ord. 12-31, passed 10-29-2012)
§ 39.045 LIEN RIGHTS ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1325, the city acquires a lien against the real
estate which is the subject of the impact fee on the date the structural
building permit is issued. Upon final adoption, the ordinance from which this
subchapter derives shall be recorded and, thereafter, it shall constitute
constructive notice of the lien rights of the city. The city may, in its
discretion, file a specific instrument setting forth its statutory lien rights
with respect to a parcel of real estate which is the subject of an installment
payment of an impact fee, and such instrument shall constitute actual notice in
addition to the constructive notice provided for by the recording of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 40-56) (Ord. 12-31, passed 10-29-2012)
§ 39.046 FORM OF RECEIPT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the city shall issue a receipt for any and all impact
fees collected, and the form of such receipt shall be as follows:
   RECEIPT
   Office of Clerk-Treasurer
   RECEIPT
   Office of Clerk-Treasurer
___________Fund
Westfield, IN ________ 20 ___
RECEIVED FROM    ___________________
THE SUM OF         ___________________
ON ACCOUNT OF      ___________________
   ______________
   Clerk-Treasurer
Payment type and amount
Cash _______ Check _______ M.O. _______
E.F.T. _______ C.C./B.C._______ Other _______
 
(Prior Code, § 40-57) (Ord. 12-31, passed 10-29-2012)
§ 39.047 APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   Any fee payer who believes itself to be aggrieved by the
calculation of the impact fee may appeal from such calculation to the Review
Board and the Review Board shall conduct a hearing with regard thereto. At such
hearing, the fee payer shall bear the burden of presenting either of the
following propositions:
         (a)   A fact assumption used in determining the amount of the impact
fee is incorrect; or
         (b)   The amount of the impact fee is greater than the amount allowed
under I.C. 36-7-4-1320, I.C. 36-7-4-1321 and I.C. 36-7-4-1322.
      (2)   Upon conclusion of the presentation of evidence, the Review Board
shall make a determination within not more than 30 days, upon the facts
presented and may make such adjustments in the impact fee as they believe are
appropriate under the circumstances, if any.
   (B)   (1)   An appeal under this section must be filed not later than 30
days after the issuance of the structural building permit. The appeal shall be
initiated with the filing of a petition for review with the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office, together with a filing fee in the amount of $100, within purview of
Council to modify if desired.
      (2)   The filing fee shall be refunded in full:
         (a)   If the petition for review is granted and the impact fee is
eliminated, reduced or adjusted by the review board, by independent action of
the city, or by a court having jurisdiction; and
         (b)   If the reviewing body determines that the amount of the fee,
reductions or credits was arbitrary or capricious. The petition for review
shall be in a form calculated to inform the Review Board of the nature of the
complaint, the parties to the action and the relief requested. In addition, the
petition shall describe the new development on which the impact fee has been
assessed, all facts relating to the assessment of the impact fee, and the
reasons petitioner believes that the amount of the impact fee assessed is
erroneous or is greater than the amount allowed by the fee limitations set
forth in the enabling statute.
   (C)   The city shall not deny the issuance of a structural building permit
on the basis that the impact fee has not been paid or condition issuance of the
permit on the payment of the impact fee. If the impact fee totals $1,000 or
less, within purview of Council to modify if desired, the city may require the
fee payer to pay the impact fee or initiate an appeal under this section before
the structural building permit is issued.
(Prior Code, § 40-58) (Ord. 12-31, passed 10-29-2012)
§ 39.048 PARKS AND RECREATION FUND.
   (A)   The city has established a Parks and Recreation Fund (the “Fund”) in
compliance with I.C. 36-7-4-1329.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1332(e)., the Clerk-Treasurer is designated as
the city official responsible for acting upon refund requests. In order to
facilitate refunds when they may be due, the Clerk-Treasurer is directed to
identify the purpose of any impact fee paid in order that a refund, if any, may
be paid from the fund or account into which the fee was originally deposited.
(Prior Code, § 40-59) (Ord. 12-31, passed 10-29-2012)
§ 39.049 USE OF IMPACT FEES COLLECTED PURSUANT TO THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   Any and all fees collected pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter may
be utilized for the purposes identified in I.C. 36-7-4-1330, only by the city,
which, for purpose of this subchapter, is identified as the “infrastructure
agency” contemplated by I.C. 36-7-4-1317.
(Prior Code, § 40-60) (Ord. 12-31, passed 10-29-2012)
§ 39.050 WESTFIELD IMPACT FEE REVIEW BOARD.
   The city has established an impact fee review board, the Westfield Impact
Fee Review Board (the “Review Board”), in accordance with the I.C. 36-7-4-1338.
(Prior Code, § 40-61) (Ord. 12-31, passed 10-29-2012)
§ 39.051 SERIES IMPACT FEES.
   The Council specifically acknowledges the existence of I.C. 36-7-4-1300
through 36-7-4-1342 (the “1300 Series”) which regulates the imposition of
impact fee ordinances by municipal corporations within the state. It is the
intent of the Council and the city to comply with this law, and this subchapter
shall be construed in all respects to be consistent with it. The substantive
and procedural requirements of the 1300 Series shall control in the event of
any conflicts with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 40-62) (Ord. 12-31, passed 10-29-2012)
§ 39.052 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective on June 10, 2013, at least six months
following the adoption of the ordinance from which it derives as required by
state law.
(Prior Code, § 40-63) (Ord. 12-31, passed 10-29-2012)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 39.065 POLICE DEPARTMENT FEES.
   The following fees shall be collected by the Police Department:
Copy of incident or case report (I.C. 5-14-3-8)
Copy of incident or case report (I.C. 5-
14-3-8)
   0—19 pages (black and white)     $0 per page
   20 + pages (black and white)       $2 plus $0.10 per page
   Any color page                     $0.25 per page
Crash report (I.C. 9-26-9-3)             $5
Police audio/visual recording (I.C. 5-
14-3-8 and I.C. 5-14-3-2(d)) law         $10 or direct cost, not to exceed $150
enforcement recording (I.C. 5-14-3-2(k))
Photo CD (I.C. 5-14-3-8 and I.C. 5-14-3- $10
2(d))
Golf cart permit (Ord. 11-16)            $25 (2-year permit)
Secondhand entity registration (Ord. 14- $50
53)
Fingerprint card                         $5 per card
Gun permits (I.C. 35-47-2-3; I.C. 35-47-  
2-4)
5-year hunting and target                $0 (effective 7-1-2020)
5-year person protection                 $0 (effective 7-1-2020)
Lifetime hunting and target              $0 (effective 7-1-2021)
Lifetime personal protection             $0 (effective 7-1-2021)
Retired law enforcement officer          Fee exempt
Retired correctional officer             Fee exempt
Officers with at least 20 years of       Fee exempt
service
 
(Prior Code, § 42-3) (Ord. 09-12, passed 6-9-2009; Ord. 19-64, passed 12-19-
2019; Ord. 21-62, passed 12-27-2021; Ord. 22-64, passed 12-27-2022; Ord. 24-74,
passed 12-23-2024)
PARK AND RECREATION
§ 39.080 MISCELLANEOUS FEES.
   (A)   Shelter rentals: All park shelters are rented in four-hour increments
as follows:
 
For Westfield residents     $50
For non-Westfield residents $75
 
   (B)   Annual farm land rental-Osborne Park: $150 to $300 per acre, paid
annually.
   (C)    Special event rental fees-assessed per event: see Special Event
Policy PK01-11, attached to the ordinance from which this section is derived as
Exhibit A.
   (D)   Program and event fees: event fees, including, but not limited to,
vendor and registration fees, will not exceed $500 each depending on the
operating costs and processing fees associated with the event. The Westfield
Welcome Director will determine the specific amounts. Event fees under this
section do not apply and are not related to Grand Park.
   (5)   Ice ribbon private rental fee.
 
Grand junction plaza $1,000 for 4 hour rental
 
(Prior Code, § 44-12) (Ord. 21-37, passed 10-11-2021; Ord. 21-62, passed 12-27-
2021; Ord. 22-64, passed 12-27-2022; Ord. 24-74, passed 12-23-2024)
§ 39.081 THE GRAND PARK SPORTS COMPLEX FEE SCHEDULE.
Item Description Price
Item Description                     Price
25 ft. extension cord                $5
Gatorade cooler 10 gallon            $0
Gatorade cooler 5 gallon             $0
Gatorade cups 100                    $0
30 in. power strip                   $1
4 ft. Folding table/day              $5
6 ft. Plastic folding table/day      $5
8 ft. Plastic folding table/day      $5
Air frame insert (CSI)               $25
Air frame rental                     $25
Air frame SU and TD                  $15
Avant                                $200
Black folding chair/day              $2.50
Matte black folding chair/day        $2.50
Black rolling chair/day              $5
Bose stereo system w/ one microphone $150
Classroom folding table/day          $7.75
Easel                                $1
Event radio/day                      $5
Golf cart/day                        $45
GP podium                            $100
Hand truck                           $5
Labor/hour                           $50
Matrax aluminum tools                $10
Matrax edge blocks                   $4.50
Matrax female ramps                  $2.50
Matrax male ramps                    $2.50
Matrax steel tools                   $10
Matrax straps                        $2
Microphone                           $25
Pallet jack                          $5
Projector and screen                 $200
Rolling folding table                $10
SAFETY cage                          $50
Stage deck 4 ft. x 8 ft.             $50
Stanchions                           $10
Trash dan                            $0
Video monitor w/ Apple TV            $150
Wagon                                $5
IT support by city staff/hr.         $80
IT support by contracted staff/hr.   $125
Information Technology Fees
Information technology fees, including, but not limited to, Wi-Fi, hard lines,
special connections and additional services will be dependent on the operating
costs and fees associated with the technology and/or service. The Grand Park
Director, with recommendations by the informatics director, will determine the
specific amounts.
Programming Fees
Individual programming fees will not exceed $1,000 and will be dependent on
the operating costs and fees associated with the program. The Grand Park
Director will determine the specific amounts.
 
(Prior Code, § 44-15) (Ord. 21-37, passed 10-11-2021)
CHAPTER 40: ORDINANCE VIOLATION DEFERRAL PROGRAM
Section
   
40.01   City ordinance deferral program established
   
40.02   Administrative authority
   
40.03   Deferral fees
   
40.04   Deferral fund account certification
   
40.05   Discontinuance of program
   
40.06   Deferral fund established
   
40.07   Allowing amendment of violations within the Nobelsville City Court
§ 40.01 CITY ORDINANCE DEFERRAL PROGRAM ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Eligible individuals who have violated qualifying city ordinance may
voluntarily enter the deferral program by written agreement with the City
Attorney.
   (B)   The deferral program shall provide for the following:
      (1)   The defendant shall voluntarily agree to the terms and conditions
of the deferral agreement offered by the City Attorney;
      (2)   The terms and conditions of the deferral agreement shall be in
writing and signed by the City Attorney;
      (3)   The defendant shall agree to pay to the Clerk of Court the deferral
fees established by the City Attorney and approved by the Common Council;
      (4)   The defendant shall agree to pay all other applicable court fees
and costs to the Clerk of Court;
      (5)   The executed deferral agreement shall be filed in the designated
court;
      (6)   Upon the defendant’s successful compliance with the terms and
conditions of the deferral agreement, the City Attorney shall file a motion
with the court to dismiss the pending deferred action; and
      (7)   The court shall dismiss the pending deferred action against the
defendant, with prejudice, upon receipt of a motion to dismiss from the City
Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 2-509) (Ord. 08-38, passed 8-11-2008)
§ 40.02 ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY.
   The City Attorney is hereby given full authority to administer the deferral
program, and to draft, prepare and execute all documents and forms necessary
and desirable for the implementation of the deferral program. The City Attorney
is also authorized and directed to work with a court of proper jurisdiction to
establish the amount of the deferral program user’s fee, at a level not to
exceed the amounts authorized by law and to submit said fees to the Common
Council for approval. The City Attorney shall also establish all eligibility
and participation criteria for the deferral program, and take any and all other
lawful actions necessary to implement this division and administer the deferral
program.
(Prior Code, § 2-510) (Ord. 08-38, passed 8-11-2008)
§ 40.03 DEFERRAL FEES.
   All deferral fees from the deferral program shall be deposited by the Clerk
of the Court into the city’s Deferral Fund (“Deferral Fund”). The Deferral Fund
shall be administered by the Fiscal Officer of the city, who shall maintain
appropriately detailed records of all deferral fees deposited into and
transferred out of the Deferral Fund.
(Prior Code, § 2-511) (Ord. 08-38, passed 8-11-2008)
§ 40.04 DEFERRAL FUND ACCOUNT CERTIFICATION.
   The fiscal office of the city shall periodically certify to the Common
Council and City Attorney an accounting of the amount of deferral fees received
by and transferred from the deferral fund. The Clerk- Treasurer shall submit
claims to the Common Council for the payment of expenses set out herein from
the deferral fees deposited in the Deferral Fund.
(Prior Code, § 2-512) (Ord. 08-38, passed 8-11-2008)
§ 40.05 DISCONTINUANCE OF PROGRAM.
   Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter, in the event the
deferral program is discontinued by the city, or there are excess funds in the
Fund, and after all deferral program costs and expenses have been paid in full,
the deferral fees collected and on deposit in the Deferral Fund shall be used
to pay the expenses of the court, or may be transferred to the city’s General
Fund.
(Prior Code, § 2-513) (Ord. 08-38, passed 8-11-2008)
§ 40.06 DEFERRAL FUND ESTABLISHED.
   There is established a Deferral Fund, (hereinafter referred to as “the
Fund”) pursuant to I.C. 33-37-8 et seq. The Deferral Fund shall be used to help
defray the cost and expense of operating the deferral program, to pay the costs
of prosecuting city ordinance violations, and to help defer the costs of
operating the court.
(Prior Code, § 2-514) (Ord. 08-38, passed 8-11-2008)
§ 40.07 ALLOWING AMENDMENT OF VIOLATIONS WITHIN THE NOBELSVILLE CITY COURT.
   The Judge of the Noblesville City Court is hereby granted the authority to
amend infractions to ordinance violations and thus allow those persons to be
eligible for deferral pursuant to the terms in place between the city and the
City of Noblesville.
(Ord. 09-30, passed 1-11-2010)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   WATER CONSERVATION
      
53.   WASTEWATER SERVICE
      
54.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
55.   STORMWATER SYSTEM RATES AND CHARGES
      
56.   SOLID WASTE
Editor’s note:
   The city has sold water and wastewater utilities but maintains stormwater.
Having sold the utilities, regulation is under the purview of Citizens Energy
Group.
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Use of property within water and sewer easements
   
50.02   Extension of water and sewer mains and facilities
Statutory reference:
   Municipal sewage works, see I.C. 36-9-23-1 et seq.
   Municipal utilities, see I.C. 8-1.5-1-1 et seq.
   Public works, see I.C. 36-9-2
§ 50.01 USE OF PROPERTY WITHIN WATER AND SEWER EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose of section. This section shall restrict the use of land within
any water and sewer easement dedicated, acquired or purchased by the city.
   (B)   Allowable uses, restrictions and responsibilities.
      (1)   Any landowner who owns real estate which is burdened by water and
sewer easements of the city, his or her successors and assigns, may use the
real estate included within the easement for the following purposes:
         (a)   Yard, greenspace;
         (b)   Any agricultural purposes other than structures;
         (c)   Parking lots/sidewalks;
         (d)   One driveway per residence;
         (e)   Placement of small minibarns, storage sheds or other portable
buildings which can be dragged or moved from place to place and are not on a
permanent foundation;
         (f)   Fences; and
         (g)   Any other uses approved by the Utilities Superintendent.
      (2)   Any landowner who owns real estate which is burdened by water and
sewer easements of the city, his or her successors and assigns, shall not place
any permanent building or structure within any part of a water or sewer
easement.
      (3)   If it becomes necessary for the city to enter a water or sewer
easement to perform maintenance, the city shall be responsible for restoring
any improvements constructed or installed within the easement as long as the
improvements are permitted under divisions (B)(1)(a) through (B)(1)(g) above.
   (C)   Seeking approval of easement use not specifically covered by divisions
(B)(1)(a) through (B)(1)(f).
      (1)   Any person seeking the approval of any land use within a water and/
or sewer easement of the city not specifically covered by this section may
apply to have such use approved by the Utilities Superintendent. The
application shall be obtained from the utilities office at 2706 East 171st
Street, Westfield, Indiana, and shall set forth in detail the proposed use by
the owner.
      (2)   Petitioners whose applications have been denied by the Utilities
Superintendent will have the further opportunity to present their request to
the full City Council at their next regularly scheduled City Council meeting.
(Prior Code, § 62-1) (Ord. 96-28, passed 10-14-1996)
§ 50.02 EXTENSION OF WATER AND SEWER MAINS AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   The City Council hereby establishes a policy to extend water and sewer
mains and facilities, without an extension agreement from landowners or
developers and at the city’s initial expense or a developer’s initial expense,
to undeveloped areas in which the city has authority to serve. An agreement for
each extension shall be approved by the City Council and shall set forth
subsequent connector fees established by the City Council applicable to such
extension, which shall be charged and collected in accordance with this section
and the ordinance authorizing the extension to which a subscriber subsequently
connects.
   (B)   City Council hereby authorizes the Department to charge subsequent
connector fees, based upon EDUs, as set forth in Ordinance 03-25 to
subscribers, both developers and builders, that connect to extensions made
under this section and the ordinance authorizing the extension to which the
subscriber connects, in addition to other fees and charges collected by the
Department. The Department shall adopt policies that uniformly apply to the
collection of the subsequent connector fees. Subsequent connector fees shall
not be reduced or waived without approval by the City Council after positive,
negative or no recommendation by the department.
   (C)   Proceeds from subsequent connector fees shall be considered payment
toward the cost of construction of the mains and facilities for reimbursement
to the city or developer.
   (D)   Any developer choosing to be reimbursed under this section shall pay
to the city an administrative fee of $10 per EDU. Such administrative fee shall
be withheld by the city from each monthly payment made to the developer until
the city is paid.
   (E)   The actions of the city staff working under this section are to be
deemed in conformity with city policy.
(Prior Code, § 62-2) (Ord. 04-32, passed 10-11-2004; Ord. 05-33, passed 11-14-
2005)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Waterworks established
   
51.02   Waterworks Utility Fund established; use
   
51.03   Limitation on Fund
   
51.04   Disbursement of funds
   
51.05   Letting of contracts
   
51.06   User rates and charges
   
51.07   Declaration of responsibility
   
51.08   Unauthorized opening of fire hydrants
   
51.09   Unauthorized use of water supply
   
51.10   Water service line protection plan established
Rules and Regulations
   
51.25   Adopted by reference
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Waterworks, see I.C. 36-9-2-14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 WATERWORKS ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 8-1.5-1 et seq. and I.C. 36-9-2-14, the
city establishes, equips, owns, operates and maintains the waterworks together
with such equipment with such appurtenances as may be necessary to serve the
city and its inhabitants with water for public and domestic use.
(Prior Code, § 62-31)
§ 51.02 WATERWORKS UTILITY FUND ESTABLISHED; USE.
   A Waterworks Utility Fund is hereby established and may be used by the City
Council in payment of principal and interest of bonds issued on account of the
waterworks, construction, repair, operation and maintenance of the city
waterworks.
(Prior Code, § 62-32)
Statutory reference:
   Bond and interest redemption account, see I.C. 8-1.5-4-8
   Operating and maintenance fund, see I.C. 8-1.5-4-7
§ 51.03 LIMITATION ON FUND.
   The City Council shall appropriate revenue from the Fund to retire bonds,
provide construction, repair, operation and maintenance of the city waterworks,
and may transfer any excess net revenues into a fund for extensions,
betterments and additions to the waterworks. No such transfer shall be made,
however, which will interfere with the required monthly payments of the
waterworks sinking fund or with the operation of the works. All revenues
derived from the operation of the waterworks and from the collection of
waterworks rates and charges shall be segregated and kept in a special fund and
in a separate bank account, separate and apart from all other funds of the
city. When all bonds payable from the revenues of the waterworks have been
redeemed or retired and fiscal provisions for all waterworks operations and
maintenance have been established, revenues may be transferred to the city’s
General Fund by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 62-33)
§ 51.04 DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep proper books of records and accounts separate
from all other records and accounts in which complete and correct entries shall
be made showing all revenues collected from the work and deposited from the
Fund, and all disbursement made therefrom on account of the operation of the
waterworks, or to meet the requirements of the Waterworks Utility Fund, also
all transactions relating to the waterworks.
(Prior Code, § 62-34)
§ 51.05 LETTING OF CONTRACTS.
   All construction contracts to be let shall conform to the requirements
established by state law and published by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 62-35)
Statutory reference:
   Public construction, see I.C. 36-1-12
§ 51.06 USER RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The rates and charges shall be set from time to time by the City
Council, prepared and billed by the city and collected in the manner provided
by law and this chapter. The rates and charges will be billed to the tenant or
tenants occupying the property served, unless otherwise requested in writing by
the owners, but such billing in no way relieves the owner from liability if
payment is not made as required. The owners of the property served, which are
occupied by tenants, shall have the right to examine the collection records of
the city for the purpose of determining whether the rates and charges have been
paid by the tenants, provided that such examination shall be made in the office
in which the records are kept and during the hours that the office is open for
business.
   (B)   All bills shall be due and payable on the first day of the month
following date of billing. Bills unpaid 15 days following date of billing shall
include a collection charge of 10% on the first $3 of unpaid billing and 3% on
the balance of the unpaid billing in excess of $3.
   (C)   Availability charges.
      (1)   When the city’s water facilities are capable of serving an area or
property in or within four miles of the city, and such area or property has not
previously been connected to the city’s water facilities, charges (availability
charges) with regard to such unconnected area or property shall be assessed as
set from time to time by the City Council. The availability charge shall be in
addition to tap fees, inspection charges and other charges made by the city in
the connection to the city’s water system.
      (2)   The availability charge shall be paid when the owner or developer
obtains approval to connect the area to be served to the city’s water system,
or at the time final plats or plans for the affected area are submitted to the
City Council for final approval.
      (3)   All availability charge fees shall be placed in the Water Utility
Expansion Fund.
(Prior Code, § 62-36)
§ 51.07 DECLARATION OF RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The City Council has the total responsibility for establishing water
rates for its water utility.
   (B)   The City Council will observe the following procedures in establishing
all water rates involving the water utility.
      (1)   A statement of need with supporting documentation shall be prepared
and made available to the general public.
      (2)   A public hearing shall be held on water utility rate adjustments at
least 30 days prior to the adoption of any water rate changes.
      (3)   In order for water utility customers to have an opportunity for a
more intensive review of information, a petition signed by a minimum of 25
water utility customers may be submitted to the City Council requesting a delay
in the city’s consideration to any water rate change. Such petition may request
an extension of no more than 60 days from the date of the public hearing.
   (C)   The municipal water utility shall prepare a comprehensive annual
report indicating costs, improvements undertaken, gallons of water pumped,
gallons of water sold, revenues and expenses, and all fund balances. All
accounting records shall be maintained utilizing the double entry accounting
system.
(Prior Code, § 62-37)
§ 51.08 UNAUTHORIZED OPENING OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   Unauthorized opening of fire hydrants is subject to a penalty as provided in
§
10.99 plus the costs of any repairs from damages.
(Prior Code, § 62-38)
§ 51.09 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   This section shall apply to all areas within the corporate boundaries
of the city and those customers of the public utilities.
   (B)   It is hereby unlawful for any person to gain unauthorized access to
the city’s water supply by opening hydrants, installing meters, bypassing
meters without appropriate authorization of the Superintendent of Public
Utilities or his or her designee.
   (C)   This section shall allow the superintendent of the public utilities to
remove any unauthorized device used to access the city’s water supply and to
refuse service to any customer whose property has benefitted from such
unauthorized access.
   (D)   This section shall not prohibit the emergency use of the water supply
by public safety personnel.
(Prior Code, § 62-39) (Ord. 06-34, passed 8-14-2006) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.10 WATER SERVICE LINE PROTECTION PLAN ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a water service line protection plan
program (the “plan”).
   (B)   The Department shall administer the plan under the terms and
conditions identified on Attachment 1 to Ordinance 06-31 and incorporated by
reference herein.
   (C)   The Department shall prescribe an application (“application”) to be
used to determine the eligibility of applicants, the terms of which application
shall govern the relationship between the city and approved applicants (“plan
participants”) under the plan.
   (D)   The fee to participate in the plan (“participation fee”) may be paid
annually or in 12 monthly installments. The participation fee shall be $96 per
plan participant per year (“annual fee”) for plan participants who elect to pay
annually, or $9 per plan participant per month (“monthly fee”) for plan
participants who elect to pay monthly. The annual fee, if paying on an annual
basis, or the first installment of the monthly fee, if paying on an installment
basis, shall be due and payable in full at the time the plan participant
submits his or her application to the city. Applicants that are deemed
ineligible by the city shall receive a full refund of the participation fees
submitted with the application.
   (E)   The actions of the city and department staff working under the
provisions of this section are to be deemed in accordance with city policy.
(Prior Code, § 62-40) (Ord. 06-31, passed 8-14-2006; Ord. 07-03, passed 2-1-
2007)
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 51.25 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The City Council hereby adopts the Public Works Department water service
rules and regulations as defined in Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated
by reference herein.
(Prior Code, § 62-61) (Ord. 02-36, passed 11-11-2002)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
51.09 shall be subject to the penalties of not less than $1,000 and no more
than $5,000 per occurrence, as well as attorney fees and all other costs of
collection necessary to enforce §
51.09.
(Prior Code, § 62-39)
(Ord. 06-34, passed 8-14-2006)
CHAPTER 52: WATER CONSERVATION
Section
   
52.01   Application
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Water shortage watch advisory; voluntary conservation
   
52.04   Declaration of need; notice
   
52.05   Mandatory water conservation
   
52.06   Violations
   
52.07   Enforcement
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 APPLICATION.
   This chapter applies to the use of water from the water system.
(Prior Code, § 62-63) (Ord. 12-23, passed 7-3-2012; Ord. 18-23, passed 6-25-
2018)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY CONDITIONS. Conditions under which voluntary conservation measures
are appropriate due to decreased supplies in the reservoirs, or other
circumstances have reduced the amount of treated water available to customers,
as determined by Citizens Energy Group.
   CUSTOMER. An individual, firm, corporation, government agency or other
entity being supplied with water utility service by Citizens Energy Group at a
location within the Westfield Service Area, which includes Westfield,
Washington Township, Noblesville or Noblesville Township.
   FLOWER GARDEN. A garden where substantially all of the plants are suitable
and maintained primarily for decorative purposes or are ornamental shrubbery
regardless of the age of the plant, tree, bush or shrub.
   MANDATORY CONSERVATION. Compliance with Citizens Energy Group’s imposition
of requirements that are designed to reduce certain kinds and types of water
use.
   NORMAL CONDITIONS. Conditions under which water supply and treatment
capacity are adequate to meet all demands.
   RESERVOIRS. Geist Reservoir and Morse Reservoir.
   TREATED WATER. Water treated in a manner that it is suitable for human
consumption or for another designated use.
   VEGETABLE GARDEN. A garden where substantially all of the plants are
suitable and grown primarily for human consumption.
   VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION. Compliance with Citizens Energy Group’s request to
reduce water use.
   WATER ALERT. An occurrence wherein mandatory conservation measures are
appropriate due to actual or projected levels in either of the reservoirs being
reduced to less than their designed drawdown curves, groundwater wells not
functioning properly due to reduced ground water levels or the existence of
other circumstances that have reduced the amount of treated water available to
customers, as determined by Citizens Energy Group.
   WATER EMERGENCY. An occurrence wherein mandatory conservation measures are
appropriate due to the levels in either of the reservoirs having been reduced
to less than their designed drawdown curves or less than an estimated 25% of
their annual drawdown design capacities, ground water wells not functioning
property due to reduced groundwater levels, or the existence of other
circumstances that have reduced the amount of treated water available to
customers, as determined by Citizens Energy Group.
   WATER SYSTEM. The water system owned by Citizens Water of Westfield, LLC and
operated by Citizens Energy Group.
   WATER USER. A customer or other individual, firm, corporation, government
agency or other entity using water within the Westfield Service Area from the
water system.
   WATER WARNING. An occurrence wherein mandatory conservation measures are
appropriate due to the levels in either of the reservoirs having been reduced
to less than their designed drawdown curves or less than an estimated 50% of
their annual drawdown design capacities, groundwater wells not functioning
properly due to reduced groundwater levels or the existence of other
circumstances that have reduced the amount of treated water available to
customers, as determined by Citizens Energy Group.
(Prior Code, § 62-64) (Ord. 12-23, passed 7-3-2012; Ord. 18-23, passed 6-25-
2018)
§ 52.03 WATER SHORTAGE WATCH ADVISORY; VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION.
   During normal conditions and advisory conditions, water users should follow
the voluntary conservation measures as found in the water conservation policy
adopted by Citizens Energy Group.
(Prior Code, § 62-65) (Ord. 12-23, passed 7-3-2012; Ord. 18-23, passed 6-25-
2018)
§ 52.04 DECLARATION OF NEED; NOTICE.
   (A)   Without disclosing trade secrets or information vital to the security
of its water system, Citizens Energy Group shall certify to the Mayor of the
city a detailed description of the findings, conditions and other circumstances
that support Citizens Energy Group’s determination that a water alert, water
warning or water emergency should be declared and the estimated impact of a
failure to declare a water alert, water warning or water emergency and that the
certification be posted in Citizens Energy Group and the city’s websites.
   (B)   Upon being notified by Citizens Energy Group that the water system is
in a condition of water shortage, the city’s Mayor may declare the existence of
a water alert, water warning or water emergency, whereupon the respective water
conservation measures described in §
52.05 shall apply until the water alert, warning or emergency is terminated.
Whenever the Mayor finds that some or all of the conditions that gave rise to
the declaration of a water alert, water warning or water emergency no longer
exist, the Mayor may declare the water alert, water warning or water emergency
terminated.
   (C)   Notice of the declaration or termination of a water alert, water
warning or water emergency shall be made by publication in a newspaper of
general circulation. Notice shall be deemed effective upon publication.
(Prior Code, § 62-66) (Ord. 12-23, passed 7-3-2012; Ord. 18-23, passed 6-25-
2018)
§ 52.05 MANDATORY WATER CONSERVATION.
   (A)   During a water alert it shall be unlawful for a water user to cause,
permit, allow, or engage in the sprinkling, watering or irrigating of grass
more than two days per week. Water users with odd number property addresses may
sprinkle, water or irrigate grass on Monday and Thursday. Water users with even
number property addresses may sprinkle, water or irrigate grass on Tuesday and
Friday. No sprinkling, water or irrigating of grass shall be permitted by any
water user on Sunday, Wednesday or Saturday.
   (B)   During a water warning, it shall be unlawful for a water user to
cause, permit, allow or engage in the sprinkling, water or irrigating of grass;
provided, however, that vegetable gardens, flower gardens and trees less than
three years old may be watered every other day by container, hand held hose
equipped with a shut-off nozzle or drip irrigation system.
   (C)   During a water emergency, it shall be unlawful for a water user to
cause, permit, allow or engage in any of the following actions:
      (1)   Outdoor watering, including, but not limited to, the sprinkling,
watering or irrigating of grass; provided, however, that vegetable gardens,
flower gardens and trees less than three years old may be watered every other
day by container, hand held hose equipped with a shut off nozzle or drip
irrigation system;
      (2)   Washing cars, trucks, trailers, mobile homes, railroad cars or any
other type of mobile equipment, except as required by applicable local, state
or federal law for health or safety reasons;
      (3)   Using water to clean sidewalks, driveways, paved areas, structures,
buildings or other outdoor surfaces;
      (4)   Filling empty swimming pools with water from Citizens Energy Group;
      (5)   Using hydrants except for fire suppression or as otherwise directed
by Citizens Energy Group; and
      (6)   Operating water fountains that are non-recycling.
   (D)   The following water users and water uses shall be exempt from the
prohibitions contained in divisions (A), (B) and (C) above:
      (1)   Nurseries, provided water use is limited to the amount essential to
preserve inventories; and
      (2)   Any activity associated with the installation, repair, testing or
maintenance of an irrigation system.
   (E)   The following water users and water uses may be exempted by the Mayor
from the prohibitions contained in divisions (A), (B) and (C) above:
      (1)   Automatic commercial car washes, including, but not limited to,
automatic car washes operating within car dealerships, provided a majority of
the water used is recycled;
      (2)   Manual commercial car washes, including, but not limited to, manual
car washes operating within car dealerships, provided only a handheld hose
equipped with a shut-off nozzle is utilized;
      (3)   Golf courses, provided that documented measures are taken to
preserve the use of water, only watering tee boxes, greens and fairways in the
manner most efficient for the course;
      (4)   Any watering of property owned or controlled by the Department of
Parks and Recreation or the Department of Public Works as directed by the Mayor
where such watering is necessary or appropriate for asset preservation;
      (5)   Limited watering of in-season athletic fields for public safety,
health or welfare purposes;
      (6)   Limited watering of new lawns or landscaping for construction
projects with building permits issued by the city prior to the declaration of
such water alert, warning or emergency; and
      (7)   Limited use of splash pad recreational watering systems or small
temporary pools that have been filled by hand.
   (F)   The city shall have the authority to promulgate regulations related to
the operation of the exceptions listed above.
(Prior Code, § 62-67) (Ord. 12-23, passed 7-3-2012; Ord. 18-23, passed 6-25-
2018)
§ 52.06 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Each property owner and/or person within the Westfield Service
Territory shall be responsible for compliance with §
52.05 with respect to the premises where the customer receives water service.
      (2)   If the identity of the water user cannot be ascertained, the
customer shall be prima facie liable for violations that occur on such
premises.
   (B)   If:
      (1)   Payment is not made within ten days of issuance;
      (2)   The alleged violation will be filed in the Noblesville City Court
pursuant to the interlocal agreement between the Cities of Westfield and
Noblesville; and
      (3)   The alleged violation shall be docketed in the Noblesville City
Court and a notice of hearing issued to the alleged offender. Penalties under
this division (B) shall include but not be limited to no more than $500 per
day, costs and attorney fees.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, each day of a violation shall be deemed
a separate offense.
   (E)   All fines collected from violation of this chapter shall be deposited
in City Water Utility Fund.
(Prior Code, § 62-68) (Ord. 12-23, passed 7-3-2012; Ord. 18-23, passed 6-25-
2018) Penalty, see §
52.99
Editor’s note:
   Per Ord. 18-23, it is unclear if the city has any enforcement taken from
Ord. 12-23 and the fund listed there is closed after utility sale.
§ 52.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the Mayor, or the Mayor’s designee, which
may be, but not limited to, law enforcement, the Department of Code
Enforcement, Director of Public Works, Director of Economic and Community
Development, Fire Chief or their designees.
(Prior Code, § 62-69) (Ord. 12-23, passed 7-3-2012; Ord. 18-23, passed 6-25-
2018)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   A person’s first and second violations of §
52.06 that were admitted to in any 12-month period shall be subject to a fine
of $20 for the first violation and $40 for the second violation, if paid within
ten days of issuance.
(Prior Code, § 62-68)
(Ord. 12-23, passed 7-3-2012; Ord. 18-23, passed 6-25-2018)
CHAPTER 53: WASTEWATER SERVICE
Section
   
53.01   Adoption of applicable ordinances
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 12-32, passed November 5, 2012, provided for the sale of the city’s
water and wastewater utilities to Citizens Energy Group.
Statutory reference:
   Municipal sewage works, see I.C. 36-9-23-1 et seq.
   Sewage disposal, see I.C. 36-9-2-16
§ 53.01 ADOPTION OF APPLICABLE ORDINANCES.
   The following chapters of the prior city code, as now or hereafter amended,
are hereby incorporated in this section as if set out at length herein and
shall be kept on file in the office of the Utilities Superintendent:
   (A)   Chapter 13.08 (Municipal Wastewater Service Agreement Between the City
of Carmel and the City of Westfield);
   (B)   Chapter 13.12 (Sewage Rates and Charges); and
   (C)   Chapter 13.16 (Rules and Regulations for Sewage Works).
(Prior Code, § 62-71)
CHAPTER 54: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
54.01   Purpose and intent
   
54.02   Definitions
   
54.03   Applicability
   
54.04   NPDES stormwater discharge permit
   
54.05   Responsibility for administration
   
54.06   Conflicting ordinances
   
54.07   Stormwater design manual
   
54.08   Interpretation
   
54.09   Ultimate responsibility
   
54.10   Discharge prohibitions
   
54.11   Watercourse protection
   
54.12   Storage of pollutants
   
54.13   Access to facilities
   
54.14   Monitoring of discharges
   
54.15   Removal of mud and other substances from city streets
   
54.16   Requirement to prevent, control and reduce stormwater pollutants by the
use of best management practices
   
54.17   Notification of spills
   
54.18   Permit requirements and procedures
   
54.19   Individual lot plot plan permit requirements and procedures
   
54.20   Construction activity inspection
   
54.21   Post construction stormwater quality management
   
54.22   BMP maintenance
   
54.23   Notice of violation
   
54.24   Appeal of notice of violation
   
54.25   Transfer of ownership
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of the city through the regulation of non-
stormwater discharges to the maximum extent practicable as required by federal
and state law. This chapter establishes methods for controlling the
introduction of pollutants into the city’s municipal separate storm sewer
system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the national pollutant
discharge elimination system (NPDES) program authorized by the 1972 amendments
to the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., the Indiana Department
of Environmental Management’s Rule 13 (327 I.A.C. 15-13) and the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management’s Rule 5 (327 I.A.C. 15-5).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prohibit the release of pollutants to the MS4 from construction
activity;
      (2)   To prohibit the release of pollutants to the MS4 from post
construction runoff;
      (3)   To prohibit illicit discharges into the MS4; and
      (4)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
monitoring and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 62-91) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Structural or nonstructural practices, or
a combination of practices, designed to act as effective, practicable means of
minimizing the impacts of development and human activities on water quality.
Traditional STRUCTURAL BMPs, including extended detention dry ponds, wet ponds,
infiltration trenches and sand filtration systems, are now common elements of
most new development projects. STRUCTURAL BMPs rely heavily on gravitational
settling and/or the infiltration of soluble nutrients through a porous medium
for pollutant removal. NONSTRUCTURAL BMPs, which may be used independently or
in conjunction with STRUCTURAL BMPs, rely on a much wider breadth of mechanisms
to prevent or control NPS pollution. NONSTRUCTURAL BMPs range from programs
that increase public awareness to prevent pollution, to the implementation of
control-oriented techniques (such as bioretention and stormwater wetlands) that
utilize vegetation to enhance pollutant removal and restore the infiltrative
capacity of the landscape.
   CLEAN WATER ACT (CWA). The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to a stormwater management permit.
These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of one-
fourth-acre or more. Such activities include, but are not limited to, clearing
and grubbing, grading, excavating and demolition. This term does not include
routine ditch or road maintenance or minor landscaping projects, agricultural
land disturbing activities, forest harvesting activities or individual building
lots within a larger permitted project.
   ENTITY. An individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other person or group of persons recognized by law and acting as
either the owner or as the owner’s agent.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. A direct or indirect non-stormwater or pollutant
discharge to the storm drainage system, MS4, or receiving waters except as
exempted in §
54.10.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Either of the following: a stormwater conveyance
system, which allows an illicit discharge to enter the storm drainage system or
the MS4, including, but not limited to, any conveyances which allow any non-
stormwater discharge and any connections to the storm drainage system, MS4, or
receiving waters from indoor drains and sinks, regardless of whether said drain
or connection had been previously allowed, permitted or approved by the city
or, any conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land use to the
storm drainage system, MS4, or receiving water which has not been documented in
plans, maps or equivalent records and approved by the city.
   INSPECTING AUTHORITY. A city representative or any other person authorized
by the city to perform inspections.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined by 327 I.A.C. 15-6-1:12 (Rule 6).
   MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE (MEP). The statutory standard that establishes
the level of pollutant reductions that operators of regulated MS4s must
achieve. The CWA requires that NPDES stormwater discharge permits for
discharges from MS4s shall require controls to reduce the discharge of
pollutants to the maximum extent practicable, including management practices,
control techniques and system, design and engineering methods. This standard
applies to all MS4s regulated under the phase I and phase II (Rule 13)
stormwater rules. Compliance with the conditions of Rule 13 and the series of
steps associated with implementation of the required six-minimum control
measures will satisfy the MEP standard. Compliance with the six-minimum control
measures requires the development and implementation of BMPs. Implementation of
the BMPs includes not only the actions necessary to initiate and continue the
use of specific control measures, but also, the enforcement actions, as
applicable, to ensure that the implementation of the control measures occurs.
   MEASURABLE STORM EVENT. A precipitation event that results in a total
measured precipitation accumulation equal to, or greater than, one-half-inch of
rainfall.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). A stormwater conveyance system
which is owned or operated by a state, city, city, county, tribe, district,
association or other public body or a designated and approved management agency
under § 208 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., that
discharges into waters of the United States (40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(8)).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT. A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority delegated
pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to
waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual,
group or general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the stormwater conveyance system
that is not composed entirely of stormwater including, but not limited to:
sewage, process wastewater, washwater, water containing pollutants, or any
other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater, discharged from a facility.
   NOTICE OF INTENT (NOI). A written notification indicating an entity’s
intention to comply with the terms of a specified general permit rule in lieu
of applying for an individual NPDES stormwater discharge permit and includes
information as required under 327 I.A.C. 15-3 and the applicable general permit
rule.
   POLLUTANT. Anything that causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes; yard wastes,
including grass, brush, leaves and limbs; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or
other discarded or abandoned objects, and accumulations, so that same may cause
or contribute to pollution; floatables, pesticides, herbicides, and
fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and
pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues
that result from constructing a building or structure; soil and sediments; and
noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   RECEIVING WATERS. Watercourses or waters of the United States, or any body
of water into which stormwater is discharged.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. A non-MS4 stormwater conveyance system that
ultimately discharges to an MS4.
   STORMWATER CONVEYANCE SYSTEMS. System of subsurface drainage systems, catch
basins and other drainage structures including retention and detention
facilities, municipal streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, roads with
subsurface drainage systems, reservoirs, pumped piping systems, other drainage
structures or watercourse.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A document which describes the
best management practices and activities to be implemented by an entity to
identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance
systems and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   TECHNICAL REVIEW AND COMMENT FORM. A form issued by the city stating the
SWPPP is adequate or stating revisions needed in the SWPPP.
   TRAINED INDIVIDUAL. An individual who is trained and experienced in the
principles of stormwater quality, including erosion and sediment control as may
be demonstrated by state registration, professional certification, experience
or completion of coursework that enable the individual to make judgments
regarding stormwater control or treatment and monitoring.
   WATERCOURSE. A conduit through which water flows, natural body of running
water flowing on or under the earth or a natural or artificial channel through
which water flows.
   WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES. A term used in federal regulations that defines
all water bodies regulated as waters of the United States. It includes:
      (1)   All waters which may be susceptible to use in interstate or foreign
commerce;
      (2)   All interstate waters, including interstate wetlands;
      (3)   All other waters, such as intrastate lakes, rivers, streams
(including intermittent streams), mud flats, sandflats, wetlands, sloughs,
prairie potholes, wet meadows, playa lakes, or natural ponds; the use,
degradation or destruction of which could affect interstate or foreign commerce
including any such waters;
      (4)   All impoundments of waters otherwise defined as waters of the U.S.;
      (5)   Tributaries of waters identified in this section;
      (6)   The territorial seas; and
      (7)   Wetlands adjacent to waters.
(Prior Code, § 62-92) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.03 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all construction activity, direct or
indirect stormwater discharges, and illicit discharges entering the storm
drainage system, MS4 or receiving waters under the jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   The city, by and through its City Council, has the authority to
modify, grant exemptions and/or waive any and all the requirements of this
chapter. A meeting with the Public Works Department may be requested by an
entity to discuss the applicability of various provisions of the chapter with
regards to unique or unusual circumstances. However, any initial determination
of such applicability shall not be binding on future determinations of the
Public Works Department that may be based on the review of more detailed
information and plans.
(Prior Code, § 62-93) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.04 NPDES STORMWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT.
   Any entity subject to an NPDES stormwater discharge permit shall comply with
all provisions of such permit and the provisions of this chapter if the
provisions of this chapter are more restrictive than the NPDES stormwater
discharge permit. Proof of compliance with said permit and this chapter may be
required in a form acceptable to the city prior to allowing discharges to the
MS4.
(Prior Code, § 62-94) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.05 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The city shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the city may be delegated in
writing by the City Council to persons acting in the beneficial interest of or
in the employ of the agency.
(Prior Code, § 62-95) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.06 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed as additional requirements to
minimum standards required by other city codes and ordinances, and as
supplemental requirements to Indiana’s Rule 5 regarding stormwater discharge
associated with construction activity and Indiana’s Rule 13 regarding
stormwater runoff associated with MS4 conveyances. In case of conflicting
requirements, the most restrictive shall apply. Unless otherwise stated, the
most recent versions or editions of said codes, ordinances, laws and statutes
shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 62-96) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.07 STORMWATER DESIGN MANUAL.
   The city’s Utility and Infrastructure Construction Standards and
Specifications Manual, and amendments thereto, are hereby incorporated herein
by reference, with copies of the same being maintained in the Department of
Public Works for public inspection during regular business hours.
(Prior Code, § 62-97) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.08 INTERPRETATION.
   Words and phrases in this chapter shall be construed according to their
common and accepted meanings, except that words and phrases defined in §
54.02 shall be construed according to the respective definitions given in that
section. Technical words and technical phrases that are not defined in this
chapter but which have acquired particular meanings in law or in technical
usage shall be construed according to such meanings and as defined in 327
I.A.C. 15-13 and 327 I.A.C. 15-5 and other city codes and ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 62-98) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.09 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore, this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any entity will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants. The degree of protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes. This
chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city or any officer,
representative or employee thereof, for any damage that may result from
reliance on this chapter or on any administrative decision lawfully made there
under.
(Prior Code, § 62-99) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.10 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of illicit discharges.
      (1)   No entity shall discharge directly or indirectly or cause to be
discharged into the storm drainage system, MS4 or receiving waters any
materials, including but not limited to, pollutants or non-stormwater
discharges that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards, other than stormwater.
      (2)   The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illicit discharge
to the storm drainage system, MS4, or receiving waters is prohibited except as
described as follows:
         (a)   The following discharges are exempt from the requirements of
this section: water line flushing or other potable water sources, landscape
irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising ground water, ground
water infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped ground water,
foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater dewatering
systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs, non-
commercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows,
swimming pools (if dechlorinated - typically less than one PPM chlorine),
firefighting activities and any other water source not containing pollutants;
         (b)   Discharges specified in writing by the city as being necessary
to protect public health and safety.
         (c)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the city prior to the time of the test; and
         (d)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES stormwater discharge permit, waiver or waste discharge
order issued to the discharger and administered under the authority of the
Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in
full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver or order and other
applicable laws and regulations, including this chapter, and provided that
written approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm drainage
system, MS4, or receiving waters.
   (B)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of
illicit connections is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      (3)   An entity is in violation of this chapter if the entity makes an
illicit connection or allows such a connection to continue after service of a
notice of violation. This chapter requires an immediate cessation of the
illicit connection after service of the notice of violation.
(Prior Code, § 62-100) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.11 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Improvement of watercourse. Whenever a residential subdivision or
commercial development constructs improvements upon lands, which is traversed
by a watercourse, the landowner/developer shall make improvements to said
watercourse. These improvements shall consist of the following.
      (1)   All debris and obstructions within the channel (bank to bank) shall
be removed. This shall be removed. This shall include, but not be limited to,
logjams and trash.
      (2)   Clear all trees which are dead and leaning at a 45-degree or
greater angle or trees with roots that are exposed in the channel and
potentially will fall into the stream. In clearing, the tree shall be cut flush
with the ground and treated with an EPA-approved brush killer.
      (3)   All stream bank erosion shall be repaired in an acceptable manner
approved by the city.
      (4)   The above required improvements must be reflected on the overall
design plans for the development and submitted to the city for prior approval.
   (B)   Maintenance of watercourse. Entities owning property through which a
watercourse passes, or such an entity’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that
part of the watercourse. In addition, the entity or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function or physical
integrity of the watercourse. The entity or lessee shall not place or construct
a privately owned structure(s) or other impairment(s) within or adjacent to the
watercourse such that is an impairment or a detriment to the use, function, or
physical integrity of the watercourse. The entity or lessee shall not place or
construct a privately owned structure(s) or other impairments within or
adjacent to the watercourse such that is an impairment or a detriment to the
watercourse.
(Prior Code, § 62-101) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.12 STORAGE OF POLLUTANTS.
   Storage or stockpiling of pollutants within any floodplain district is
strictly prohibited. Storage or stockpiling of pollutants on active
construction sites must include adequate protection and/or containment so as to
prevent any such materials from entering any temporary or permanent stormwater
conveyance or watercourse.
(Prior Code, § 62-102) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.13 ACCESS TO FACILITIES.
   (A)   The city shall be permitted to enter and inspect any premises subject
to regulation under this chapter or subject to the conditions of a NPDES
stormwater discharge permit as often as may be necessary to determine
compliance with this chapter. If a said premises has security measures in
force, which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its
premises, the owner of said premises shall make the necessary arrangements to
allow access to representatives of the city.
   (B)   The city shall be provided ready access to all parts of the premises
for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and provided access to
all records that must be kept under the conditions of a NPDES stormwater
discharge permit or this chapter and shall be permitted to make copies of said
records, and the performance of any additional duties as defined by state and
federal law and any other applicable codes, ordinances or laws which would
otherwise have jurisdiction over the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Unreasonable delay or refusal to allow the city access to a premises
subject to regulation under this chapter or subject to the conditions of a
NPDES stormwater discharge permit is a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   If the city has been refused access to any part of the premises, and
the city is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a
violation of this chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample any
discharges as part of an inspection and sampling program developed to verify
compliance with this chapter or any order issued hereunder, and/or to protect
the overall public health, safety and welfare of the city, then the city may
seek issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (E)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
premises to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the owner
of the premises at the written or oral request of the city and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the owner of the
premises.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for the entity of any premises to refuse to allow
the city to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth in §
54.25.
(Prior Code, § 62-103) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.14 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to install on any premises, such devices
as are necessary in the opinion of the city to conduct monitoring and/or
sampling of the premise’s discharge.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to require the entity of said premises to
install monitoring equipment as necessary. The premise’s sampling and
monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper
operating condition by the entity at the expense of the entity. Data resulting
from said monitoring shall be provided to the city. All devices used to measure
flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
(Prior Code, § 62-104) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.15 REMOVAL OF MUD AND OTHER SUBSTANCES FROM CITY STREETS.
   No entity shall, under any circumstance, cause any mud, dirt, sand, gravel,
stone or other similar substance to be deposited upon any city street at any
time.
(Prior Code, § 62-105) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.16 REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS BY THE
USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   Any entity responsible for a premises, which is, or may be, the source of an
illicit discharge shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable protection
from an illicit discharge through the use of acceptable best management
practices (BMPs), as determined by the city. Acceptable BMPs are outlined in
the city’s Utility and Infrastructure Construction Standards and Specifications
Manual. This shall include any premises having an approved NPDES stormwater
discharge permit.
(Prior Code, § 62-106) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.17 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   (A)   Any entity who knowingly or accidentally causes an illicit discharge
shall immediately notify emergency dispatch services. A written report
concerning the illicit discharge shall be filed with the Public Works
Department, by the dischargers, within five days. The written report shall
specify:
      (1)   The composition of the discharge and the cause thereof;
      (2)   The date, time and estimated volume of the discharge;
      (3)   All measures taken to remedy the illicit discharge, and all
measures proposed to be taken to prevent any recurrence; and
      (4)   The name and telephone number of the entity making the report, and
the name and telephone number of the entity who may be contacted for additional
information on the matter.
   (B)   A properly reported illicit discharge shall be an affirmative defense
to a civil infraction proceeding brought under this chapter against an entity
for such discharge. It shall not, however, be a defense to a legal action
brought to obtain an injunction, to obtain recovery of costs or to obtain other
relief because of or arising out of the illicit discharge. An illicit discharge
shall be considered properly reported only if the entity complies with all the
requirements of this section. This requirement does not relieve the entity from
notifying other agencies as required by state or federal regulations.
(Prior Code, § 62-107) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.18 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   An approved stormwater management permit shall be obtained prior to
the initiation of any construction activities. In order to obtain a stormwater
management permit, the applicant shall be the entity responsible for
accomplishing the construction activity for which the stormwater management
permit was issued. In granting a stormwater management permit, the city may
impose such terms and conditions as are reasonably necessary to meet the
purpose of this chapter. The entity shall ensure compliance with such terms and
conditions. Noncompliance with the terms and conditions of permits will be
subject to enforcement as described in §
54.21.
   (B)   The entity shall inform all general contractors, construction
management firms, grading or excavating contractors, utility contractors and
the contractors that have primary oversight on individual building lots of the
terms and conditions of the stormwater management permit and the schedule for
proposed implementation.
      (1)   The project site owner must submit an application for a stormwater
management permit to the city and IDEM, including an initial notice of intent
(NOI), construction plan sheets, stormwater drainage technical report, a
stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) for active construction sites, a
post-construction SWPPP and the applicable permit fees to the city (city’s
inspection fees ordinance). All plans, reports, calculations, and narratives
shall be prepared in accordance with the city’s Utility and Infrastructure
Construction Standards and Specifications Manual and signed and sealed by a
professional engineer, registered by the state.
      (2)   (a)   The city will review each application for a stormwater
management permit to determine its conformance with the provisions of this
chapter. The city will take one of the following actions:
            1.   Approve the SWPPP for active construction sites and for post-
construction and provide a technical review and comment form stating the “plan
is adequate”;
            2.   Approve the SWPPP for active construction sites and for post-
construction subject to such reasonable conditions as may be necessary to
secure substantially the objectives of this chapter, and issue the technical
review and comment form stating the “plan is adequate” with said conditions
outlined; and
            3.   Provide a technical review and comment form stating the “plan
is deficient” and indicating the reason(s) and procedure for submitting a
revised application and/or submission.
         (b)   Any changes or deviations in the detailed plans and
specifications after approval of the applicable stormwater management permit
shall be filed with, and accepted by, the city prior to the commencement of
construction activity involving the change. Applicable plan review fees are due
in accordance with the city’s inspection fee ordinance before any plan will be
approved.
      (3)   (a)   After receiving a technical review and comment form stating
the “plan is adequate”, the project site owner must notify the city and IDEM 48
hours before beginning construction. Notification shall be in the form of an
updated NOI form along with proof of publication of public notice. The
applicant is also responsible for any IDEM-required NOI fee. The publication
must include the following:
“(Company name, address) is submitting an NOI letter to notify the City of
Westfield and the Indiana Department of Environmental Management of our intent
to comply with the requirements of the City of Westfield Stormwater Management
Ordinance, as well as the requirements of 327 I.A.C. 15-5 and 327 I.A.C. 15-13,
to discharge stormwater from construction activities for the following project:
(name of the construction project, address of the location of the construction
project, and Parcel Identification Number). Run-off from the project site will
discharge to (stream(s) receiving the discharge(s)).”
         (b)   Once a permit has been issued and the updated NOI submitted to
the city and IDEM 48 hours before beginning construction, construction may
commence. A stop work order per §
54.22 shall be issued by the city for all projects that are proceeding without
such notification.
      (4)   Once construction starts, the project owner shall monitor
construction activities and inspect all stormwater pollution prevention
measures in compliance with the city’s applicable ordinances and the terms and
conditions of the approved permit. Lack of maintenance of stormwater pollution
prevention measures during construction or failure to implement the approved
SWPPP by the approved schedule of implementation shall constitute a violation
of this chapter, subject to enforcement under the provisions of this chapter.
      (5)   Upon completion of construction activities, as-built plans must be
submitted to the city.
      (6)   The entity must submit a notice of termination (NOT) letter to the
city once the construction site has been stabilized and all temporary erosion
and sediment control measures have been removed. The city shall inspect the
construction site and verify the requirements for an NOT have been met. Once
the applicant receives a “verified” copy of the NOT, they must forward a copy
to IDEM.
(Prior Code, § 62-108) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.19 INDIVIDUAL LOT PLOT PLAN PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   For individual lots disturbing less than one acre, developed within a
larger permitted project, a formal review and issuance of an individual lot
plot plan permit will be required before a building permit can be issued. The
individual lot owner must complete a residential lot plot plan permit request,
containing the certified site layout for the subject lot and an erosion and
sediment control plan in accordance with the city’s Utility and Infrastructure
Construction Standards and Specifications Manual, the name and contact
information for the trained individual in charge of the stormwater pollution
prevention self-monitoring program for the individual lot. In submitting the
individual lot plot plan for plan review, applicable fees for the permit, plan
review, and site inspections are due in accordance with the city’s inspection
fee ordinance. These fees are due before approval for a plan can be issued. The
individual lot owner is responsible for installation and maintenance of all
erosion and sediment control measures until the site is stabilized. In
instances where an NOT has been issued to the developer and there are multiple
lots being developed and a violation of this chapter occurs that cannot be
attributed to an individual lot owner, then all lot owners with active
construction shall, collectively, be found in violation.
   (B)   As a condition of approval and issuance of the permit, the city shall
require the applicant to provide financial performance and maintenance
guarantees. Said assurance will guarantee a good faith execution of the
stormwater drainage plan, the SWPPP, the stormwater quality management plan,
and any permit conditions.
   (C)   Notice of the scheduled date for completion of construction shall be
provided to the Department at least 72 hours prior to its planned completion.
The owner will schedule the final inspection, the storm drain and site grading
performance sureties will be released after submittal and approval by the
Public Works Department of the following information:
      (1)   “Record” drawings prepared under the supervision of and certified
by a professional engineer registered in the state;
      (2)   For subdivided and platted or developments larger than five acres,
a copy of the storm drain maintenance bond in a form approved by the
jurisdictional entity; and
      (3)   A certificate of completion and compliance certifying that the
completed storm drainage system and stormwater management facilities
substantially comply with construction plans and the stormwater management
permit as approved by the Public Works Department.
   (D)   For platted single- and double-family developments, the performance
surety for installation of required erosion and sediment control measures will
be released only after construction has been completed, inspected by the Public
Works Department and a three-year maintenance bond has been submitted for
approval. Bonds are required for each individual section of the development.
   (E)   The property owner, developer or contractor shall be required to file
a three-year maintenance bond with the city, prior to final project acceptance
(the issuance of a verified “NOT”).
(Prior Code, § 62-109) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.20 CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY INSPECTION.
   (A)   A self-monitoring program shall be implemented. A trained individual
shall perform a written evaluation of the project site by the end of the next
business day following each measurable storm event. If there are no measurable
storm events within a given week, the site should be monitored at least once in
that week.
   (B)   The evaluation shall document the maintenance efforts of existing best
management practices to ensure proper function in accordance with this chapter;
and identify additional measures necessary to remain in compliance with all
applicable statutes and rules.
   (C)   Written evaluation reports include the following:
      (1)   The name of the individual performing the evaluation;
      (2)   The date of the evaluation;
      (3)   Problems identified at the project site; and
      (4)   Details of corrective actions recommended and completed.
   (D)   All evaluation reports for the project site shall be made available to
the city within 48 hours of a request.
   (E)   The city will perform inspections at its discretion to evaluate the
installation, implementation and maintenance of control measures and management
practices at any project site involved in construction activities and provide
necessary recommendations for conformance with the provisions of this chapter
and the stormwater management permit. Access to the construction project site
shall be provided in accordance with §
54.13.
   (F)   If after a recommendation is provided to the entity, corrective action
is not taken; the city will pursue enforcement in accordance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 62-110) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.21 POST CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The city has established a minimum standard that the measurement of
the effectiveness of the control of stormwater quality will be based on the
management of total suspended solids (TSS). The project site owner must submit
to the city, a post-construction SWPPP that would show placement of appropriate
BMP(s) from a pre-approved list of BMPs specified in city’s Utility and
Infrastructure Construction Standards and Specifications Manual and would
demonstrate that the expected TSS loadings in runoff associated with one inch
of rainfall will be reduced by a minimum of 80% at the outfall(s) exiting the
site. The noted BMPs must be designed, constructed and maintained according to
guidelines provided or referenced in the city’s Utility and Infrastructure
Construction Standards and Specifications Manual. Practices other than those
specified in the pre-approved list may be utilized. However, the burden of
proof, as to whether the performance (minimum 80% TSS removal) and ease of
maintenance of such practices will be according to guidelines provided in the
city’s Utility and Infrastructure Construction Standards and Specifications
Manual, would be placed with the applicant. Details regarding the procedures
and criteria for consideration of acceptance of such BMPs are provided in the
city’s Utility and Infrastructure Construction Standards and Specifications
Manual.
   (B)   Gasoline outlets and refueling areas must install appropriate
practices to reduce lead, copper, zinc and hydrocarbons in stormwater runoff.
These requirements will apply to all new facilities and existing facilities
that replace their tanks.
   (C)   The following activities are exempt from the requirements of this
section:
      (1)   Agricultural land-disturbing activities;
      (2)   Timber harvesting activities not associated with a proposed new
development;
      (3)   Construction activities associated with a single-family residential
dwelling disturbing less than five acres, when the dwelling is not part of a
larger common plan of development or sale;
      (4)   A single-family residential strip development where the developer
offers for sale or lease without land improvements and the project is not part
of a larger common plan of development of sale; or
      (5)   Individual building lots within a larger permitted project.
(Prior Code, § 62-111) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.22 BMP MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   BMPs shall be maintained in good condition, in accordance with the
operation and maintenance procedures and schedules listed in the Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual or the city’s Utility and Infrastructure Construction
Standards and Specifications Manual, and the terms and conditions of an
approved stormwater management permit, and shall not be subsequently altered,
revised or replaced. Alterations, revisions or replacement of the BMP shall be
in accordance with the provisions of an approved stormwater management permit
(as amended or revised) or as approved by the city. The BMP owner is considered
in violation of this chapter if the BMP is not maintained properly.
   (B)   Following the issuance of an NOT or the installation of an acceptable
BMP, inspection and maintenance of the BMP(s) shall be the long-term
responsibility of the HOA or entity as specified in restrictive covenants. The
HOA or entity is required to inspect the referenced BMP(s) at least once per
year. The inspections shall follow the operation and maintenance procedures
included in the city’s Utility and Infrastructure Construction Standards and
Specifications Manual and/or the stormwater management permit for each specific
BMP. The inspection shall cover physical conditions, available water quality
storage capacity, and the operational condition of key facility elements. The
HOA or entity is required to submit a yearly inspection report form (city’s
Utility and Infrastructure Construction Standards and Specifications Manual)
demonstrating proof of inspection, with the first report to be required one
year after the HOA or entity gains ownership of the BMP(s), and subsequent
reports due each year within the month of the original transfer of ownership.
Noted deficiencies and corrective actions taken should be included in the
report.
   (C)   The city has the authority to perform long-term inspection of all
public or privately owned BMPs. Such inspections will be in addition to that
required to be performed by the HOA or the entity on a regular basis. The HOA
or entity is in violation of this chapter if an inspection report is not
submitted to the city within one month of the date due, if the HOA or entity
fails to correct noted deficiencies within the allowed time period, or if the
city identifies a violation that was stated as not existing in the submitted
inspection report.
(Prior Code, § 62-112) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.23 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   In the event an entity has violated the terms of this chapter, the
city may order compliance by written notice of violation to the entity. Such
notice may require without limitation:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyzing and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit connections or illicit discharges;
      (3)   That illicit discharges shall cease and desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of the illicit discharge and the
restoration of any affected property;
      (5)   Payment of a fine;
      (6)   The implementation of source control and/or installation of
acceptable BMPs;
      (7)   Payment of any costs borne by the city, including but not limited
to, remediation costs, legal fees, consultant fees, monitoring costs,
construction costs, collection fees;
      (8)   The installation, implementation, and or maintenance of the
approved components of a SWPPP or other erosion and sediment control practices
as deemed necessary by the city;
      (9)   Issuance of a stop work order; and/or
      (10)   Revocation or suspension of the stormwater management permit.
   (B)   The city may, without prior notice of violation, suspend storm
drainage system or MS4 access to an entity in the form of a suspension order
when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened illicit
discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger.
   (C)   The notice of violation or suspension order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the property for identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the violation(s) and section violated and
why the notice or order is being issued;
      (4)   Include a description of corrective actions to be taken allowing a
sufficient reasonable amount of time, of at least one day from the time the
notice of violation or suspension order is given, to make the repairs and
improvements required to bring the property into compliance with the provisions
of this chapter; and
      (5)   Include a notice containing the right to appeal the city’s
determination to the City Council in accordance with §
54.24.
   (D)   Reinspection of remedied violations will be assessed a reinspection
fee in accordance with the city’s inspection fee ordinance.
   (E)   If the entity fails to comply with a suspension order or fails to
perform steps provided in a notice of violation within the established
deadline, then the city may take steps as deemed necessary to prevent or
minimize damage or remediate a violation. All reasonable costs associated with
the abatement or restoration shall be assessed against the owner of the
property and may be filed as a lien against the property in the amount of the
assessment. It shall be unlawful for any entity, owner, agent or person in
possession of any premises to refuse to allow the city or its designated
contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth above.
   (F)   In the event of a suspension, the city shall not reinstate suspended
services or MS4 access to the entity until the entity presents proof,
satisfactory to the city, the illicit discharge has been eliminated and its
cause determined and corrected. An entity violates this chapter if the entity
reinstates MS4 access to premises terminated pursuant to this section, without
the prior approval of the city.
   (G)   In addition to the penalties listed above, if construction activities
are conducted contrary to the provisions of this chapter or a stormwater
management permit, the city may order the work stopped by notice in writing, in
the form of a stop work order, served on any entity engaged in the doing or
causing of such work to be done, and any such entity shall forthwith stop such
work until authorized by the city to proceed with the work.
(Prior Code, § 62-113) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.24 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any entity receiving a notice of violation may appeal the
determination of violation to the effect that a notice of violation or order
served in accordance with this chapter is in error, or should, due to hardship,
be modified or entitled to a variance from enforcement, or that a reasonable
extension of time for the compliance should be granted upon the grounds of a
demonstrated case of hardship and evidence of an actual undertaking to correct
the violation, together with a legitimate intent to comply within a reasonable
time period, may appeal to the City Council; for rescission of the notice or
order, or for a modification, variance or extension of time for compliance.
   (B)   A request for rescission, modification, variance or extension of time
shall be made in writing, to the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, to be placed on the
City Council agenda, within ten days of the appellant’s receipt of a copy of
the notice or order. The City Council shall schedule a hearing within 30 days
of receipt of the request.
   (C)   All hearings before the City Council shall be open to the public. The
appellant, the appellant’s representative and any persons whose interests are
affected shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
   (D)   Prior to ruling on an appeal, the City Council shall make the
following findings:
      (1)   The violator was served with a notice or order;
      (2)   The notice or order that was served stated the specific nature of
the violation; corrective action to be taken to abate the violation; and a
specific time period for abatement of violation;
      (3)   Within the time period stipulated by the notice or order, the
violator failed to comply by not abating the violation, and/or not bringing
into compliance with this chapter;
      (4)   Upon expiration of the date indicated for compliance in the notice
or order, the premises was being maintained in violation of specific provisions
of this chapter and/or conditions imposed by the City Council as a prerequisite
to the modification of a previous compliance order; and
      (5)   Determination that a violation exists on the premises.
   (E)   At the conclusion of the hearing at which a continuance is not
granted, the City Council may reverse, affirm or modify the order, notice,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from, and may make such order,
requirement, decision or determination as justice would require. The City
Council’s determination and findings of fact shall be recorded and if a notice
or order is affirmed or modified, the City Council shall, in the determination
on appeal, reestablish a reasonable timeline to make the repairs and
improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into compliance
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Any entity, whether or not a previous party of the appeal, shall have
the right to apply to the appropriate court for a writ of certiorari to correct
errors of law.
   (G)   Appeals of notices and orders (other than imminent danger notices)
shall stay the enforcement of the notice and order until the City Council rules
on the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 62-114) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.25 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   No owner of any premises upon whom a notice of violation has been served
shall sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or otherwise dispose of to another until
the provisions of the notice of violation have been complied with, or until
such owner first furnishes the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee a true
copy of any compliance order or notice of violation issued by the city and
furnishes to the city a signed and notarized statement from the grantee,
transferee, mortgagee or lessee, acknowledging the receipt of such notice of
violation and fully accepting the responsibility without condition for making
corrections or repairs required by such notice of violation.
(Prior Code, § 62-115) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found in violation of any provisions of this chapter shall
be responsible for a civil infraction and subject to a maximum fine of $1,000
for the first offense, and a maximum of $10,000 for a subsequence offense, plus
cost, damages and expenses. Each day such violation occurs or continues shall
be deemed a separate offense and shall make the violator liable for the
imposition of a fine for each day. The rights and remedies provided for in this
section are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
An admission or determination of responsibility shall not exempt the offender
from compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who aids or abets a person in violation of this chapter
shall be subject to the penalties provided in this section.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE means a violation of
the provisions of this chapter committed by the same person within 12 months of
a previous violation of the same provision of this chapter for which said
person admitted responsibility or was adjudicated to be responsible.
(Prior Code, § 62-116) (Ord. 05-30, passed 11-14-2005)
CHAPTER 55: STORMWATER SYSTEM RATES AND CHARGES
Section
   
55.01   Definitions
   
55.02   Stormwater user fee
   
55.03   Stormwater rate structure fee and rate
   
55.04   Fee establishment procedure
   
55.05   Billing and payment penalties
   
55.06   Adjustment of fees
   
55.07   Private stormwater facilities
   
55.08   Delinquent fees and penalties as liens
   
55.09   Violations, enforcement and penalties
   
55.10   Stormwater Revenue Fund
§ 55.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural, the singular;
words used in the present tense shall include the future tense. The word SHALL
is mandatory and not discretionary. The word MAY is permissive. Words not
defined herein shall be construed to have the meanings given by common and
ordinary use as defined in the latest edition of Webster’s Dictionary.
   APPROVED PLANS. Plans approved by the city according to a permits and plan
review which will govern all improvements made within the city that require a
stormwater system or changes or alterations to the existing stormwater system.
   CITY. The City of Westfield, Indiana acting by and through the City Council,
or any successor municipal entity.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Westfield, Indiana or any
other successor entity, or any duly authorized officials acting on its behalf.
   LOT. The smallest separately segregated parcel, unit or plot of land having
an identified owner, boundaries and surface area which is documented for
property tax purposes by the Westfield Washington Township Assessor.
   METER. A water meter or sewage meter intended to measure flow to/from the
city’s utility services.
   MULTI-UNIT RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. A building containing two or more dwelling
units. A DWELLING UNIT is an individual unit which is rented or owned to be
primarily used, or intended to be used, as a domicile, condominiums, mobile
home parks and co-operative apartments. This does not include institutions that
provide medical care.
   NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. All properties not encompassed within the
definition of residential property with water or sewer service intended to
measure flow to/from the city’s utility service.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, corporation, partnership, institution, or
other entity.
   PUBLIC WORKS SERVICE AREA. All property within the corporate boundary of the
City of Westfield, Hamilton County, Indiana.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Any lot or parcel existing in the public works system
service area on which resides a family dwelling unit.
   STORMWATER. The chemical compound of hydrogen and oxygen which is produced
from atmospheric clouds as rain, snow, sleet and hail.
   STORMWATER DEPARTMENT USER FEE. A charge imposed on users of the city’s
stormwater system.
   STORMWATER SYSTEM. All facilities constructed in an easement or right-of-
way, including structures and natural watercourses under the ownership, and/or
control of the city, used for collecting and conducting stormwater to, through
and from drainage areas to the point of final outlet, including any and all of
the following: inlets, creeks, channels, catch basins, ditches, streams,
streets culverts, retention or detention basins and pumping stations, and
excluding there from, any part of the system of drains and water courses under
the jurisdiction of Hamilton County, waters of the state, private drainage
systems, or drainage systems which are the responsibility of a homeowners
associations.
   SURFACE WATER. Water occurring on the surface of the land, from natural
causes such as rainfall, whether falling on the land in question or flowing
onto the land in question.
(Prior Code, § 62-131) (Ord. 07-23, passed 11-12-2007)
§ 55.02 STORMWATER USER FEE.
   (A)   A stormwater user fee shall be imposed on all property within the
public works service area, including those classified as non-profit or tax-
exempt, for services and facilities provided by the city. This user fee is
deemed reasonable and is necessary to pay for the repair, replacement,
planning, improvement, operation, regulation and maintenance of the existing
and future stormwater system for the city.
   (B)   The Department shall be responsible for calculating and assessing all
monthly stormwater user fees and for establishing billing and collection
procedures for the same, and for taking all other lawful actions, including,
but not limited to, those set forth in Ordinance 07-23, as are necessary or
convenient in order to implement the city’s stormwater management and user fee
system.
(Prior Code, § 62-132) (Ord. 07-23, passed 11-12-2007; Ord. 22-36, passed 9-12-
2022)
§ 55.03 STORMWATER RATE STRUCTURE FEE AND RATE.
   (A)   The monthly stormwater user fees shall be uniform for all residential
property units located in the district, and same shall be assigned one
equivalent residential unit (“ERU”); except for apartments which would pay
multiple ERUs based on the amount of impervious area similar to nonresidential
properties.
   (B)   The monthly stormwater user fees for all nonresidential properties
located in the district shall be determined by using an ERU multiplier, which
shall be the quotient obtained by dividing the total square feet of impervious
surface area within a nonresidential property by a divisor of 3,500 square
feet, which quotient will then be multiplied by the ERU to obtain the
stormwater user fee, except that the monthly stormwater user fee for a
nonresidential property located in the district shall not be less than one ERU.
   (C)   The monthly stormwater user fees for all tax-exempt municipal property
located in the district shall be the product of the ERU multiplied by 0.50.
   (D)   The monthly stormwater user fees for all unimproved property located
in the district shall be the product of the ERU multiplied by 0.33.
   (E)   A five-year graduated ERU shall be implemented for all properties in
the district. The first year, starting January 1, 2023 the ERU will be $4.55,
the second year $4.94, the third year $5.33, the fourth year $5.73 and the
fifth year $6.13.
   (F)   (1)   On January 1 of each year beginning in 2028, a 3% cost of living
adjustment (COLA) shall be added to the previous year’s rates and charges.
      (2)   This 3% shall occur automatically each year unless and at such time
the Council amends or adjust the percentage of the COLA increase for the next
fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 62-133) (Ord. 07-23, passed 11-12-2007; Ord. 14-13, passed 3-10-
2014; Ord. 22-36, passed 9-12-2022)
§ 55.04 FEE ESTABLISHMENT PROCEDURE.
   This stormwater user fee rate is designed to recover and be able to pay the
cost of rendering stormwater service to the users of the stormwater system, and
shall be the basis for assessment of the city’s stormwater user fee. This
stormwater user rate is established so as to maintain adequate fund reserves to
provide for reasonably expected variations in the cost of providing services,
as well as variation in the demand for services. This rate shall be evaluated
annually as to its sufficiency to satisfy the needs of the city.
(Prior Code, § 62-134) (Ord. 07-23, passed 11-12-2007)
§ 55.05 BILLING AND PAYMENT PENALTIES.
   Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the city
in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (A)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
   (B)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the city for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by such tenant or tenants, provided that such examination shall
be made at the office at which said records are kept and during the hours that
such office is open for business.
   (C)   As provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which such rates
or charges shall be paid is now fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of
the bill.
(Prior Code, § 62-135) (Ord. 07-23, passed 11-12-2007)
§ 55.06 ADJUSTMENT OF FEES.
   That the rules and regulations promulgated by the city, after being approved
by the City Council, shall among other things, provide for an appeal procedure
whereby a user shall have the right to appeal a decision of the administrator
of the public works system and the fee structure to the City Council and that
any decision concerning the fee structure of the City Council may be appealed
to the circuit court of the county under the appeal procedures provided for in
the Indiana Administrative Adjudication Act, being I.C. 4-21.5-3-22.
(Prior Code, § 62-136) (Ord. 07-23, passed 11-12-2007)
§ 55.07 PRIVATE STORMWATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   The city shall have no responsibility for the installation,
maintenance and repair of private stormwater facilities or private drain
systems.
   (B)   No newly-constructed stormwater systems or drains shall cross the
property of another private owner unless such private owner has granted an
easement for such private stormwater system or drain, and which easement is
duly recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the private drain or private drainage system shall be borne by the owner. The
owner shall indemnify the city for any loss or damage directly or indirectly
occasioned by the construction or installation of the private drain, including
backwater damages from the public stormwater system.
   (D)   The connection or outlet of a stormwater systems or private drain into
the public stormwater system shall conform to city specifications and standards
for storm drainage works. Any deviation of the prescribed procedure or material
must be approved by the Public Works Department before installation.
   (E)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or open
into, use, alter or disturb any public stormwater sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first contacting the department of the public works.
   (F)   All excavations or construction or installation of private stormwater
systems or drainage facilities shall be adequately guarded with barricades and
lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways
and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored
in accordance with the specifications and standards for storm drainage works of
the city.
   (G)   All private construction and installation of stormwater systems shall
include proper restoration and provisions for erosion and sediment control in
accordance with the specifications and standards for storm drainage works of
the city and all other stormwater systems or drainage requirements.
   (H)   No property owner shall change the stormwater runoff pattern of the
property of such owner in such a way that neighboring properties or city
property is adversely affected. Consideration and provisions must be made for
stormwater systems or drainage to and from neighboring properties in connection
with land alterations.
(Prior Code, § 62-137) (Ord. 07-23, passed 11-12-2007)
§ 55.08 DELINQUENT FEES AND PENALTIES AS LIENS.
   Delinquent charges for stormwater user fee rates, services, applied
penalties and recording fees constitute a lien upon the property and may be
collected in accordance with provisions of I.C. 36-9-23-31, I.C. 36-9-23-32,
I.C. 36-9-23-33 and I.C. 36-9-23-34.
(Prior Code, § 62-138) (Ord. 07-23, passed 11-12-2007)
§ 55.09 VIOLATIONS, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Failure to pay a stormwater user fee rates when due shall constitute a
violation of this chapter, which shall be enforced by the city and such persons
as the city may appoint for such purpose, which shall also include the cost of
recovery, including attorney fees, other costs of collection and recording
fees.
   (B)   If the monthly stormwater user fee is not paid by its due date, as
stated on the division’s fee invoice, which may be combined with and made a
part of the city’s billings issued pursuant to Ordinance 07-23, § 5.c, a late
charge of 10% will be assessed, together with the costs of collection, if any,
including reasonable attorney fees.
(Prior Code, § 62-139) (Ord. 07-23, passed 11-12-2007; Ord. 22-36, passed 9-12-
2022)
§ 55.10 STORMWATER REVENUE FUND.
   (A)   All revenues earned and fees collected for stormwater service,
including but not limited to, department user fees, penalties assessed by this
chapter or subsequent amendments, or interest earnings on any unused funds
shall be deposited in an account entitled “City of Westfield Stormwater Revenue
Fund” and shall be subject to the provisions of I.C. 36-9-23, as amended. Funds
from this account shall not revert to any other city utility or the general
fund of the city and may not be transferred for any other purpose. To the
extent that there are outstanding revenue bonds of the city issued pursuant to
the provisions of I.C. 36-9-23, as amended, revenues deposited in the
Stormwater Revenue Fund shall be subject to the covenants contained in the
ordinance or ordinances authorizing such outstanding bonds. Disbursements from
the stormwater revenue fund shall be authorized by the Clerk-Treasurer and, as
required by law, the City Council.
   (B)   Such disbursements shall be used exclusively for the operation,
maintenance and improvement of the city’s stormwater division, which includes,
but is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Stormwater management services, such as public education and
outreach, studies, design, permit review, plan preparation and development
review;
      (2)   Operation, maintenance, repair and replacement of the stormwater
collection, storage, conveyance, and/or treatment infrastructure;
      (3)   Project costs related to constructing major or minor structural
improvements to the city’s stormwater system;
      (4)   Administrative costs associated with the management of the
stormwater department;
      (5)   Debt service financing of the city’s stormwater-related capital
improvements;
      (6)   Funding of studies such as water quantity and quality monitoring,
aerial photography, associated with the planning of the stormwater related
infrastructure; and
      (7)   Implementation of long range stormwater plans developed and
approved by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management for elimination
of combined sewer overflows.
(Prior Code, § 62-140) (Ord. 07-23, passed 11-12-2007)
CHAPTER 56: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
56.01   Division of solid waste created
   
56.02   Definitions
   
56.03   Authorization to regulate
   
56.04   Superintendent
   
56.05   Private contracting
§ 56.01 DIVISION OF SOLID WASTE CREATED.
   The Director of Public Works is hereby authorized to create a Division of
Solid Waste within the Department of Public Works and appoint a supervisor
thereof. The City Public Works Department through the Division of Solid Waste
of the city is hereby authorized and empowered to collect and dispose of all
garbage and rubbish within the city.
(Prior Code, § 62-151) (Ord. 08-42, passed 9-8-2008)
§ 56.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Within the meaning of this chapter, shall be construed to mean
rejected food wastes, and to include every waste accumulation of animal, fruit
or vegetable matter, used or intended for food, or that attends the
preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or
vegetable.
   RUBBISH. Within the meaning of this chapter, shall be construed to mean such
matter as ashes, cans, metalware, broken glass, crockery, dirt, sweepings,
boxes, wood, grass, weeds, or litter in any kind.
(Prior Code, § 62-152) (Ord. 08-42, passed 9-8-2008)
§ 56.03 AUTHORIZATION TO REGULATE.
   Said Division is hereby authorized, subject to the approval of the City
Council to prescribe and promulgate regulations providing methods to be used,
in the storage, collection and disposal of all garbage and rubbish.
(Prior Code, § 62-153) (Ord. 08-42, passed 9-8-2008)
§ 56.04 SUPERINTENDENT.
   Said Division is hereby authorized and empowered to appoint a Superintendent
of Garbage and Rubbish Collection and disposal to supervise said collection and
disposal. In the absence of such appointment, the Director of Public Works
shall serve as Superintendent of Garbage and Rubbish Collection, and shall be
responsible for the administration of the regulations set up by said Division
governing the collection and/or disposition of such garbage and rubbish.
(Prior Code, § 62-154) (Ord. 08-42, passed 9-8-2008)
§ 56.05 PRIVATE CONTRACTING.
   In its discretion said Division and the City Council may ask for and accept
bids from a private contractor for the handling of the service described in
this chapter, said contractor shall be subject to the regulations of said
Division as to the manner and method of collection and disposal of garbage and
rubbish, and any other unlicensed private person, firm, or corporation engaged
in the business of rubbish collection shall be subject to the regulations of
said Division.
(Prior Code, § 62-155) (Ord. 08-42, passed 9-8-2008)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   PEDESTRIANS
      
74.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
75.   ABANDONED VEHICLES; IMPOUNDMENT
      
76.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
77.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Title
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Application of regulations
   
70.04   Obedience required
   
70.05   Public employees to obey traffic regulations
   
70.06   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.07   Pushcarts on roadways
   
70.08   Use of toy vehicles
   
70.09   Obstruction of mailboxes
Traffic Control Devices
   
70.20   Authority to install
   
70.21   Manual and specifications for traffic control devices
Administration; Enforcement
   
70.35   Duties of City Marshal and Deputy Marshals
   
70.36   Authority of enforcement officials
   
70.37   Violation of stopping, standing and/or parking restrictions
   
70.38   Authority to remove vehicle
   
70.39   Notice of violation
   
70.40   Disposition of traffic fine and forfeiture
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Traffic regulation, I.C. 9-21-1 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 TITLE.
   This title may be known and cited as the traffic code of the city.
(Prior Code, § 58-31) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this title, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning. Whenever any words and phrases used in this
title are not defined herein, but are defined in the state laws regulating the
operation of vehicles, such definition shall be deemed to apply to such words
and phrases used in this title, except when the context otherwise requires.
   LOADING ZONE. A space reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the
loading or unloading of passengers or property.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this title, they
shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in
the city.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the City Police Department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make an arrest for violations of
traffic regulations.
(Prior Code, § 58-32) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 70.03 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this title relating to the operation of vehicles refer
exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon streets and highways except where
a different place is specifically referred to in a given section.
(Prior Code, § 58-33) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 70.04 OBEDIENCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful and an infraction for any person to do any act
forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this title.
   (B)   Additionally, any person who operates a motor vehicle within the city
which creates a danger, or a potential danger to any occupant of such motor
vehicle commits the violation of passenger endangerment.
(Prior Code, § 58-34) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996; Ord. 12-12, passed 5-14-
2012) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this title shall apply to the driver of all vehicles owned
or operated by the United States, the state or any county, city, district or
any other political subdivision of the state, subject to such specific
exceptions as are set forth in this title or in the State Vehicle Code.
(Prior Code, § 58-35) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 70.06 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may park or
stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title.
   (B)   The foregoing provision shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to park or stand with due regard for the safety
of all persons, nor shall such provision protect the driver from the
consequences of his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 58-36) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 70.07 PUSHCARTS ON ROADWAYS.
   Every person propelling any pushcart upon a roadway shall be granted all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver
of a vehicle by this title and by the rules of the road portion of the State
Vehicle Code, except those provisions which by their very nature can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 58-37) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 70.08 USE OF TOY VEHICLES.
   No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street and when so crossing such person shall be granted all of the rights and
shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 58-38) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 OBSTRUCTION OF MAILBOXES.
   (A)   Purpose. It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this section to
prohibit the obstruction by a vehicle of a mailbox in such a manner so as to
impede the delivery of the mail by the United States Postal Service.
   (B)   Mailbox defined. For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MAILBOX.
         (a)   A public container approved by the United States Postal Service
for deposit of outgoing mail.
         (b)   A private container approved by the United States Postal Service
for incoming mail.
   (C)   Obstruction of mailbox. A person may not stop, stand, or park a
vehicle in such a manner as to obstruct a mailbox or to interfere with the
delivery of mail by the United States Postal Service. Vehicles following the
direction of a law enforcement officer or traffic control device, emergency
response personnel attending to an emergency call, United States Postal Service
vehicles, and individuals stopped for the sole purpose of placing or removing
mail from a mailbox are exempted from this section.
(Prior Code, § 58-2) (Ord. 11-17, passed 9-12-2011)
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL.
   The City Council shall have placed and maintained official traffic control
devices when and as required under the traffic ordinances of the city to make
effective the provisions of such ordinances, and may place and maintain such
additional official traffic control devices as the City Council may deem
necessary to regulate, warn or guide traffic under the traffic ordinances of
the city or the State Vehicle Code.
(Prior Code, § 58-101) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 70.21 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   All traffic control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the Indiana
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways prepared by
the State Highway Commission. All signs and signals required by this title for
a particular purpose shall so far as practicable be uniform to type and
location throughout the city. All traffic control devices so erected and not
inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this title shall be official
traffic control devices.
(Prior Code, § 58-102) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.35 DUTIES OF CITY MARSHAL AND DEPUTY MARSHALS.
   In addition to his or her other activities, it shall be the duty of the City
Marshal to enforce the street traffic regulations of the city and all state
vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in the city; to make arrests for
traffic violations; to investigate all traffic accidents and make reports on a
standard accident report form; to maintain a standard system of filing accident
records and records of all arrests and warnings; to cooperate with other
officers of the city in the administration of the traffic laws and in
developing ways to improve traffic conditions; to file an annual report with
the City Council concerning the number of traffic accidents, the number of
moving violations and parking violation arrests, and other data on the traffic
activities of his or her office and to carry out those duties specially imposed
upon the office by this title.
(Prior Code, § 58-71) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 70.36 AUTHORITY OF ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The City Marshal, or Deputy Marshals as are assigned by the City
Marshal, are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or signal
in conformance with traffic laws, provided that, in the event of a fire or
other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, the City
Marshal or Deputy Marshals may direct traffic as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic law.
   (B)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist police officials in directing traffic thereat or in the
immediate vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 58-72) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 70.37 VIOLATION OF STOPPING, STANDING AND/OR PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   The penalties that shall be provided for the violation of the special
restrictions on stopping, standing and parking as provided in this section
shall be in accord with the penalties and procedures set out in this
subchapter. In addition thereto, whenever in the opinion of the City Marshal or
Deputy Marshals a stopping, standing or parked vehicle in violation of the
provisions of this title constitutes an immediate hazard to the safety of the
citizens of the city, the City Marshal or Deputy Marshals may have the vehicle
towed from such position of danger to a containment area and the expense of
such towing and storage, if any, shall be borne by the owner of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 58-73) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 70.38 AUTHORITY TO REMOVE VEHICLE.
   The City Marshal and his or her deputies are hereby authorized to move or
cause to be moved and properly stored, at the owner’s expense, any vehicle
improperly parked, parked overtime or abandoned, if, after reasonable effort,
the owner or operator of such vehicle cannot be found or refuses or fails, upon
proper notification, to move such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 58-74) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 70.39 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever a person is charged with a violation of this title, he or she
shall be given notice of such charge by an appropriate notice served personally
or placed in or upon a vehicle stopped or parked in violation of any provision
of this title.
   (B)   If, in the opinion of the City Marshal or his or her deputies or other
duly constituted officer, any person charged with violating this title is about
to leave the jurisdiction, such officer may institute action forthwith before a
court of law, magistrate or judge for the collection of such fine and penalty.
(Prior Code, § 58-75) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 70.40 DISPOSITION OF TRAFFIC FINE AND FORFEITURE.
   All traffic fines and forfeitures collected by the Clerk-Treasurer shall be
deposited in the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 58-76) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Vehicles found to be in violation of §
70.09 shall be subject to a fine of no more than $500 per incidence, per day as
well as costs and fees associated with the enforcement in addition to any other
fines outlined in this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 58-2)
   (C)   In addition to the provisions set forth in §§
70.35 through
70.40, the following shall apply.
      (1)   Each violator of the restrictions and provisions of this title on
stopping, standing, parking and pedestrian offenses shall pay a fine and
penalty to the city in the sum and amount of $10 if paid within 72 hours of the
date of the time of issuance and $20 thereafter for each such violation. If,
and only if, the fine has not been paid within two weeks of the date of
issuance, the violation shall be docketed in the Hamilton Circuit and Superior
Court and prosecuted as a Class C infraction under I.C. 34-28-5-4. In such
event, the violator shall be obligated to pay any costs imposed by reason of
the docketing in the county court in addition to the fine prescribed in this
code.
      (2)   Each violator of any other provision of this chapter shall pay a
fine and penalty to the city not to exceed $500 for each such violation. All
such violations shall be immediately docketed in the county court and made
subject to the costs imposed thereon for Class C infractions under I.C. 34-28-
5-4 in addition to the fine imposed by the Hamilton Circuit and Superior Court
having jurisdiction thereof in accordance with the provision.
(Prior Code, § 58-77)
(Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996; Ord. 97-3, passed 1-18-1997; Ord. 11-17, passed
9-12-2011)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Operation of Vehicles
   
71.01   Stop and yield intersections
   
71.02   One-way streets and alleys
   
71.03   Turning movements
   
71.04   Limitation on backing
   
71.05   Parades and processions
   
71.06   Driving through parade, other procession
Speed
   
71.20   State law applicable
   
71.21   Establishment of speed limit on certain streets
Regulations on Certain Streets
   
71.35   Definitions
   
71.36   Hauling hazardous waste or hazardous substance
   
71.37   Weight limits
   
71.38   Parking of trailers restricted
   
71.39   Exceptions
   
71.40   Posting of signs
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION OF VEHICLES
§ 71.01 STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   Those streets, parts of streets, stop intersections and yield intersections
described in Chapters 76 and 77, as from time to time amended by duly adopted
resolutions, are hereby declared to be through streets, stop intersections or
yield intersections for the purpose of this section.
(Prior Code, § 58-121) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 71.02 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys designated by
the city from time to time by duly adopted resolution, vehicular traffic shall
move only in the indicated direction when proper signs indicating the direction
of traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where movement in
the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 58-122) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 71.03 TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council is hereby authorized by duly adopted resolution to
determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a
right or left turn or U-turn, and shall place proper signs at such
intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours
of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event the same shall be
plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when such turns are
permitted.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction upon any street in a zoned business district.
(Prior Code, § 58-123) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 71.04 LIMITATION ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the vehicle unless such movement can
be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 58-124) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 71.05 PARADES AND PROCESSIONS.
   No procession or parade containing 200 or more persons or 25 or more
vehicles except the Armed Forces of the United States, the military forces of
this state and the forces of the police and fire departments, shall occupy,
march or proceed along any street except in accordance with a permit issued by
the City Marshal and such other regulations as are set forth in this title
which may apply.
(Prior Code, § 58-125) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 71.06 DRIVING THROUGH PARADE, OTHER PROCESSION.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between any vehicles comprising a
parade or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such
vehicles are conspicuously designated.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic control signals or police officers.
(Prior Code, § 58-126) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
SPEED
§ 71.20 STATE LAW APPLICABLE.
   The state traffic laws regulating the speed of vehicles shall be applicable
upon all streets within the city, except as the city, as authorized by state
law, hereby declares and determines upon the basis of engineering and traffic
investigations that certain speed regulations shall be applicable upon
specified streets or in certain areas, in which event it shall be unlawful for
any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of any speed so declared by
the city when proper signs are in place.
(Prior Code, § 58-146) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Speed limits, see I.C. 9-21-5
§ 71.21 ESTABLISHMENT OF SPEED LIMIT ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   Upon the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation, maximum speed
limits are hereby determined and declared reasonable and safe on the streets,
or parts of streets, described in Chapters 76 and 77, as from time to time
amended by duly adopted resolution of the City Council, when signs are erected
giving notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 58-147) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
REGULATIONS ON CERTAIN STREETS
§ 71.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Has the meaning set forth in I.C. 13-11-2-98.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Has the meaning set forth in I.C. 13-11-2-99.
(Prior Code, § 58-316) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 71.36 HAULING HAZARDOUS WASTE OR HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE.
   Except in hauling such hazardous waste or hazardous substance from a point
on such street to another point on such street, or except as authorized in an
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person operating a vehicle used for
hauling hazardous waste or hazardous substance to drive such vehicle on the
following streets within the corporate limits of the city:
   (A)   North and South Union Street; and
   (B)   Hoover Street, from U.S. 31 to East Street.
(Prior Code, § 58-317) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Transportation of hazardous wastes, see I.C. 13-7-8.5-4
§ 71.37 WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for operators of any vehicle to drive upon
certain streets within the corporate limits of the city when that vehicle
exceeds the posted weight limits of the streets, except where such travel is
necessary and unavoidable in the transfer of property to and from places or
premises abutting on or having access only from such street; provided, however,
that in any case such vehicle shall travel over the shortest possible route
upon the streets from the point of entry, and shall then leave the street at
the nearest available point of exit.
   (B)   No vehicle of the following designated gross weights, with load, shall
use the following enumerated streets:
 
11,000 pounds gross weight and over:
   North and South Union Street
   Hoover Street, from U.S. 31 to East Street
 
(Prior Code, § 58-318) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Local ordinances, see I.C. 9-20-1-3
   Size and weight of vehicles, see I.C. 9-20-1 et seq.
§ 71.38 PARKING OF TRAILERS RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or for anyone having the care
and custody of any vehicle without motive power, commonly called a trailer, to
park, suffer, permit or allow such trailer to stand or be parked on any public
street within the corporate limits of the city unless it is attached to another
vehicle having motive power.
(Prior Code, § 58-319) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   “Trailer” defined, see I.C. 9-13-2-184
§ 71.39 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter do not apply to waste collection vehicles
performing normal pickup services, nor to vehicles operated by the city for
utility purposes or road maintenance nor to school buses.
(Prior Code, § 58-320) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 71.40 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   The Superintendent of Streets for the city shall be responsible for the
posting of all hazardous material and weight limit signs.
(Prior Code, § 58-321) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be subject to a judgment of not less
than $50 nor more than $250 for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 58-322) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Angle parking
Prohibited in Specified Places
   
72.15   Parking shall not obstruct public ways
   
72.16   Parking in alleys
   
72.17   Parking adjacent to schools
   
72.18   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited
   
72.19   Temporary parking
   
72.20   Parking in fire lanes
   
72.21   Handicap parking
Restrictions
   
72.35   Application of regulations
   
72.36   Parking prohibited at all times on certain streets
   
72.37   Parking prohibited during certain hours on certain streets
   
72.38   Parking time limited on certain streets
   
72.39   Parking signs required
Loading and Unloading Zones
   
72.50   Designation
   
72.51   Standing, parking
   
72.52   Establishment of public carrier stops and stands
   
72.53   Restricted use of bus and taxicab stands
   
72.54   Truck parking restrictions
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Parking, see I.C. 9-21-16
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   The City Council shall determine upon what streets angle parking shall
be permitted and shall mark or sign such streets, but such angle parking shall
not be indicated upon any state highway within the city unless the State
Highway Commission has determined that angle parking shall be permitted.
   (B)   On those streets which have been signed or marked by the City Council
for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the
angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings.
(Prior Code, § 58-191) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996) Penalty, see §
72.99
PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES
§ 72.15 PARKING SHALL NOT OBSTRUCT PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   No person shall park or cause to be parked any vehicle upon a street,
other than an alley, in such a manner as to leave available less than 18 feet
of width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
   (B)   No person shall park or cause to be parked any vehicle upon any
publicly owned sidewalk in a manner which restricts or inhibits pedestrian
access and use of the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 58-211) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996; Ord. 98-17, passed 8-10-
1998) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.16 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than 18 feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 58-212) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.17 PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   (A)   The City Council is hereby authorized, upon duly adopted resolution,
to erect signs indicating no parking upon either or both sides of any street
adjacent to any school property when such parking would, in the City Council’s
opinion, interfere with traffic or create a hazardous situation.
   (B)   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon either side
of a street adjacent to any school property as authorized in this section, no
person shall park a vehicle in any such designated place.
(Prior Code, § 58-213) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.18 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions of a
police officer or traffic control officer, in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of or immediately opposite a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of any intersection or of a crosswalk at an
intersection;
   (G)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (H)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance of any fire station and on the
side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of
the entrance (when properly posted); and
   (I)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street.
(Prior Code, § 58-214) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.19 TEMPORARY PARKING.
   (A)   Parking may be temporarily prohibited for special events upon the
authority of the Chief of Police, who is hereby given authority for such
limitation and prohibition of parking. All motor vehicles shall observe such
prohibition and limitations when proper temporary signs have been erected or
placed indicating such prohibition.
   (B)   A police officer may have a vehicle in violation of this chapter towed
and the expense of such towing and storage, shall be the responsibility of the
owner of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 58-215) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996; Ord. 22-25, passed 6-27-
2022) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.20 PARKING IN FIRE LANES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, driver or operator of any vehicle
to park or stop such vehicle or to permit such vehicle to be parked or to stand
at any time, or to place any other personal property found to be obstructing a
fire lane and he or she shall be cited by any law enforcement officer with
jurisdiction or fire department personnel.
   (B)   In addition, any vehicle or other personal property may be towed away
upon the request of any law enforcement officer or fire department personnel
having jurisdiction. The owner of the vehicle or personal property shall be
liable for all towing and resulting storage charges.
   (C)   The Fire Department shall, to the greatest extent feasible, inspect
the area surrounding all buildings in which the public would have access, and
the chief of the fire department, or duly authorized representative, shall
determine and establish the emergency vehicle lanes and notify the property
owners affected therein in writing.
   (D)   Fire lanes shall be established and marked as follows.
      (1)   Fire lanes shall be 12 feet from the sidewalk, driveway, or service
areas immediately adjacent to any building or structure deemed necessary by the
chief of the Fire Department.
      (2)   Where acceptable, the pavement of the fire (emergency) lane shall
be marked with the words “no parking fire lane” in large visible letters and a
strip of no less than four inches in width installed 12 feet from the sidewalk,
curb or other items adjacent to the building in question. The words “no parking
fire lane” shall be between the stripe and the sidewalk, curb or other item
adjacent to the building.
      (3)   All curb striping and language required on pavement shall be marked
in yellow coloration with paint or other types of substances that may be
approved by the Chief of the Fire Department.
      (4)   Signs stating “no parking fire lane” meeting the Indiana Manual of
Uniform Traffic Control Devices shall be installed no less than every 30 feet
apart.
   (E)   The Chief of the Fire Department, in designating fire lanes, may
determine that any blockage of the portions of those lanes, because of the
location of hydrants, standpipes or other fire prevention devices or because of
the necessities for ingress and egress, constitutes a fire hazard.
   (F)   Areas so determined shall be designated tow-away zones and shall be
marked and posted. Any vehicle parked in such zones shall be removed at the
direction of any fire official or police officer.
(Prior Code, § 58-216) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996; Ord. 97-3, passed 1-18-
1997) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.21 HANDICAP PARKING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DRIVER. The person that is operating or has the care, custody or control
of the motor vehicle at the time of the violation.
      HANDICAP PARKING SPACE. Any space contained within a public parking area
that is clearly designated by signs either vertically and/or horizontally,
reserved for parking a motorized vehicle containing a physically disabled
person.
      PUBLIC PARKING. Any space that is accessible from a public street, which
is by design and/or construction, used primarily for the purpose of parking
motor vehicles.
   (B)   Any driver who parks a motor vehicle which does not have displayed a
placard or a registration plate for a person with a physical disability or a
disabled veteran, issued under I.C. 5-16-9-1 et seq. and 9-18.5 et seq. or
under the laws of another state, in a parking space specifically reserved for
persons with a physical disability, is in violation of this section.
   (C)   Any driver who parks a motor vehicle in a parking space reserved for a
person with a physical disability that is not transporting a physically
disabled person at the time is in violation of this section, regardless of I.C.
5-16-9-1 et seq. and 9-18.5 et seq.
   (D)   This section shall be enforced by all persons empowered by the City
Marshal to enforce local ordinances, and a person enforcing this section may
issue a complaint and summons for a violation as allowed by I.C. 5-16-9-10.
   (E)   It shall not be a defense that the vehicle was unattended at the time
of the violation. If the vehicle is unattended at the time of the violation,
the responsibility rests solely on the registered owner of the vehicle
regardless of who was operating the vehicle at the time of the violation.
   (F)   If the vehicle is registered to a business or corporation at the time
of the violation, the responsibility rests on the assigned driver of the
vehicle. If it cannot be readily determined who was the assigned driver of the
vehicle at the time of the violation, the responsibility rests solely with the
chief executive officer (CEO) or the person responsible for vehicle
assignments.
   (G)   If the vehicle is registered to a leasing company or a rental company
and the driver cannot be readily determined at the time of the violation, the
responsibility rests with the leasing agent or rental agent.
(Prior Code, § 58-217) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996) Penalty, see §
72.99
RESTRICTIONS
§ 72.35 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter prohibiting the standing or parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times specified in this code or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a
police officer or official traffic control device.
(Prior Code, § 58-241) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 72.36 PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
at any time upon any of the streets as described in Chapter 77 of this code of
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 58-242) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 72.37 PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified in Chapter 77 of this code of ordinances as from
time to time amended by duly adopted resolution on any day except Sundays and
public holidays within the district or upon any street as described in Chapter
77 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 58-243) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 72.38 PARKING TIME LIMITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
for longer than the time specified in Chapter 77 of this code of ordinances as
from time to time amended by duly adopted resolution of any day except Sundays
and public holidays within the district at locations as described in Chapter 77
of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 58-244) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 72.39 PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED.
   No prohibition, regulation or limitation relating to stopping, standing or
parking imposed under this chapter or any other ordinance of the city shall be
effective unless official traffic control devices are erected and in place at
the time of any alleged offense and it shall be the duty of the City Council to
see that such devices are erected and maintained.
(Prior Code, § 58-245) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES
§ 72.50 DESIGNATION.
   The City Council is hereby authorized by duly adopted resolution to
determine the location of loading zones and shall have placed and maintained
appropriate signs indicating them, and stating the hours during which the
provisions of this section are applicable.
(Prior Code, § 58-266) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 72.51 STANDING, PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup
and loading of property in any place described in Chapter 77 of this code of
ordinances as from time to time amended by duly adopted resolution and marked
as a loading zone during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are
in effect. In no case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials
exceed 30 minutes.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may stop temporarily at a loading zone for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when
such stopping does not interfere with any vehicle which is waiting to enter or
about to enter such zone to load or unload property.
(Prior Code, § 58-267) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 72.52 ESTABLISHMENT OF PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS.
   The City Council is hereby authorized by duly adopted resolution and
required to establish bus stops, bus stands, taxicab stands and stands for
other passenger common-carrier motor vehicles on such public streets in such
places and in such number as it shall determine to be of the greatest benefit
and convenience to the public, and every such stop, bus stand, taxicab stand
and other stand shall be designated by appropriate signs.
(Prior Code, § 58-268) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 72.53 RESTRICTED USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus
stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop or stand
has been officially designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver
of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping
does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter
such zone.
(Prior Code, § 58-269) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 72.54 TRUCK PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   Commercial vehicles of one-ton capacity or more, or commercial vehicles more
than 20 feet in length, shall not park within residential or business districts
on public thoroughfares of the city.
(Prior Code, § 58-270) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
70.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §
72.19 shall be subject to a judgment of not less than $50 nor more than $250.
(Prior Code, § 58-215)
   (C)   Any person who violates the terms of §
72.20 shall be, upon conviction, guilty of a Class C infraction under I.C. 34-
28-5-4 and fined in accordance with the regular schedule of fines and penalties
set out in §
70.99.
(Prior Code, § 58-216)
(Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996; Ord. 97-3, passed 1-18-1997; Ord. 22-25, passed
6-27-2022)
CHAPTER 73: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
73.01   Running, jogging or walking in roadway
   
73.02   Solicitation within public road right-of-way prohibited
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 RUNNING, JOGGING OR WALKING IN ROADWAY.
   Running, jogging or walking in a roadway where a sidewalk has been provided
is prohibited. Running, jogging or walking in a roadway without a sidewalk is
permitted provided that the following requirements are met:
   (A)   The pedestrian must stay within two feet of the pavement edge; and
   (B)   The pedestrian’s direction of travel must oppose that of the vehicular
traffic in that lane.
(Prior Code, § 58-166) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 73.02 SOLICITATION WITHIN PUBLIC ROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to sit, stand or move within or
upon a public road right-of-way, or a median between two roadways, for the
purpose of or while engaged in:
      (1)   Soliciting, peddling, selling, advertising, donating or
distributing any product, property or service, including, but not limited to,
tickets, handbills, newspapers or other printed material, to or from an
occupant of a vehicle in the roadway; or
      (2)   Conversation or discourse with an occupant of a vehicle in the
roadway.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to solicit, peddle, sell, advertise,
donate or distribute any product, property or service, including, but not
limited to, tickets, handbills, newspapers or other printed material to an
occupant of a vehicle within or upon a roadway, or to engage in conversation or
discourse with an occupant of a vehicle within or upon a public road right-of-
way, so as to:
      (1)   Endanger the safety or welfare of an occupant of a vehicle within
or upon a public road right-of-way or a pedestrian on within the immediate
vicinity;
      (2)   Impede the free flow of vehicular traffic on the public road right-
of-way; or
      (3)   Obstruct or distract the view of the driver of any such vehicle
within or upon a public road right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 58-167) (Ord. 02-20, passed 6-10-2002)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
70.99.
   (B)   The penalties that shall be provided for any violation relating to the
offenses on §
73.02 shall be consistent with §
70.99 of this chapter. Each violator shall pay a fine and penalty to the city
not to exceed $500 for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 58-167)
(Ord. 02-20, passed 6-10-2002)
CHAPTER 74: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
74.01   Application
   
74.02   Definition
   
74.03   Specifications
   
74.04   Operation
   
74.05   Exclusions
   
74.06   Enforcement
   
74.07   Permitting a violation
   
74.08   Impoundment
 
   
74.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 74.01 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall apply to the operation of golf carts on city roadways,
city multi-use paths, and authorized city-named trails within the corporate
limits of the City of Westfield. Only operation pursuant to the conditions
contained herein, I.C. 9-21-1-3.3, and other applicable laws shall be
permitted.
(Prior Code, § 58-1(a)) (Ord. 10-23, passed 2-28-2011; Ord. 11-16, passed 7-11-
2011; Ord. 18-50, passed 11-12-2018; Ord. 25-30, passed 7-28-2025)
§ 74.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART.
      (1)   A four wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically designed
and intended to transport one or more individuals and golf clubs for the
purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course.
      (2)   This definition does not include all-terrain vehicles (ATVs), low-
speed vehicles (LSVs) (as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-94.5), utility vehicles, or
any other motorized vehicle, as determined by applicable law or generally
accepted definitions.
      (3)   The Westfield Police Department shall have discretion to determine
whether a motor vehicle is considered a GOLF CART for purposes of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 58-1(b)) (Ord. 10-23, passed 2-28-2011; Ord. 11-16, passed 7-11-
2011; Ord. 18-50, passed 11-12-2018; Ord. 25-30, passed 7-28-2025)
§ 74.03 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Golf carts shall be equipped with adequate and functioning headlights,
rearview mirrors, taillights, brake lights, and turn signals. A golf cart may
only accommodate as many passengers as originally designed.
   (B)   No child less than eight years of age is permitted to ride on a golf
cart unless they are safely secured in the golf cart, with an appropriate
safety device, when the golf cart is in motion. A golf cart operator shall
ensure that all passengers under eight years of age are safely secured in the
golf cart when it is in motion.
   (C)   Inspection and permits.
      (1)   All golf carts to be operated on city roadways, city multi-use
paths, and authorized city-named trails must be inspected by the Westfield
Police Department for compliance with this subchapter before such operation.
      (2)   The Westfield Chief of Police is authorized to create and
administer inspection procedures, permit issuance, permit renewals, enforcement
protocols, forms, and use of technology required to implement this subchapter
and to ensure compliance. The Westfield Chief of Police is specifically
authorized to develop policies and procedures necessary to maximize the safety
of people and property, including the implementation of visible golf cart
registration stickers or decals that shall meet minimum size and location
requirements determined by the Chief of Police.
      (3)   The initial inspection of a golf cart will remain valid until
December 31 of the second calendar year following the year in which the
inspection is conducted (up to two years). Golf carts that pass the initial
inspection and are accompanied by proof of sufficient insurance pursuant to
this subchapter are eligible for a permit, consistent with this subchapter.
Golf cart owners shall display a permit/decal, issued by the Westfield Police
Department. The cost of the initial permit is $100, and all permits have a set
expiration date of December 31 of the second calendar year following the year
in which the inspection is conducted, which date shall be prominently noted on
each permit/decal.
      (4)   A subsequent two-year permit for the permitted golf cart can be
acquired by a golf cart owner by paying a $50 registration fee and passing a
subsequent inspection by the Westfield Police Department, including the
provision of proof of sufficient insurance. If, at any time, an owner purchases
a new golf cart, an initial inspection shall occur prior to the issuance of a
permit and operation, consistent with this subchapter.
      (5)   Registration and permit fees collected shall be deposited in a
Westfield Police Department fund and shall be used to offset costs associated
with golf cart inspection procedures, permit creation and issuance, permit
renewals, enforcement protocols, and golf cart and equipment acquisitions.
   (D)   Only golf carts described, equipped, insured, and displaying a valid
permit, as described herein, shall be allowed to operate within the Westfield
city limits on city roadways, city multi-use paths, and authorized city-named
trails.
(Prior Code, § 58-1(b)) (Ord. 10-23, passed 2-28-2011; Ord. 11-16, passed 7-11-
2011; Ord. 18-50, passed 11-12-2018; Ord. 25-30, passed 7-28-2025)  Penalty,
see §
74.99
§ 74.04 OPERATION.
   (A)   Operators of golf carts within the corporate city limits and
consistent with the requirements of this subchapter must possess a valid
driver's license, in accordance with I.C. 9-24-1-7(b). Should I.C. 9-24-1-7(b)
be revised or amended, this subchapter shall automatically incorporate such
additional revisions or amendments.
   (B)   All privately owned golf carts operated on city roadways, city multi-
use paths, and authorized city-named trails must be insured by liability
insurance in an amount not less than the minimum required by applicable law for
automobiles, including but not limited to I.C. 9-25-2-3. A valid certificate of
insurance shall remain in effect, always be carried by a golf cart owner or
operator, and must be produced by the owner or operator of a golf cart at the
time of an initial, and any subsequent, inspection and when requested by a
Westfield Police Officer.
   (C)   (1)   Operators of golf carts within the corporate city limits shall
obey all Indiana traffic laws, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and
bicycles, and are only permitted to operate upon city roadways and perimeter
paths at a speed limit of 25 mph or less and upon authorized named trails at a
speed limit of 15 mph or less.
      (2)   Crossing roadways with speed limits more than 25 mph is permitted
only when directly crossing to reach a roadway with a speed limit of 25 mph or
less, or to reach a city multi-use path, or authorized city-named trail. Such
crossings must be at right angles only.
      (3)   Golf carts may also be operated on city asphalt multi-use perimeter
paths and authorized city-named trails included in Exhibit "A", attached to
Ord. 25-30 and incorporated herein by reference.
      (4)   Golf carts may not be operated on any concrete sidewalk, non-
authorized city-named trail, multi-use trails less than five feet in width, or
any Westfield city park not included in Exhibit "A", attached to Ord. 25-30 and
incorporated herein by reference. Golf carts may be operated in city parking
lots as depicted in Exhibit "A" of Ord. 25-30.
   (D)   The Department of Public Works is hereby authorized to place all
necessary signage for regulation and access requirements for city roadways,
city multi-use paths or authorized city-named trails.
(Prior Code, § 58-1(c)) (Ord. 10-23, passed 2-28-2011; Ord. 11-16, passed 7-11-
2011; Ord. 18-50, passed 11-12-2018; Ord. 25-30, passed 7-28-2025)  Penalty,
see §
74.99
§ 74.05 EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   (1)   This subchapter shall not apply to golf cart operation on public
or private golf courses, construction sites, retail golf cart outlets, or upon
private property.
      (2)   This subchapter shall not apply to city owned or leased golf carts
or other motorized vehicles when used for official business, including
enforcement, maintenance work, and special events.
      (3)   This subchapter shall not apply to Grand Park Sports and
Entertainment, LLC owned or leased golf carts or other motorized vehicles when
used for official business, maintenance work, and special events, while being
operated on or around the Grand Park properties.
   (B)   Golf carts may not be operated on public roadways, city multi-use
paths, or authorized city-named trails during inclement weather such as rain,
fog, or when there is an accumulation of ice or snow on the ground.
(Ord. 25-30, passed 7-28-2025)
§ 74.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any operator of a golf cart in violation of this subchapter may be
issued a citation to appear in city court or a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Revocation of permit.
      (1)   Upon a third offense or violation of this subchapter, including a
violation of § 74.07, the Westfield Police Department shall have the right to
revoke an issued permit, for a period of one year from the date of revocation.
      (2)   The city shall provide the following procedures for revocation of a
permit:
         (a)   All revocations shall be in writing, shall state the effective
date of the revocation and the reason for the same, and shall be served by U.S.
certified mail or personal service at the address contained in the permit
application.
         (b)   Not later than 20 days from the date on which the revocation
notice is served, the permit holder may deliver a written request for a hearing
to the Clerk-Treasurer's office within such time period.
         (c)   If a timely appeal is not made, the permit revocation is final.
         (d)   If a timely appeal is made, the Board of Public Works and Safety
shall hear the appeal during a public meeting which shall begin no more than 30
days from the date of the receipt of the appeal by the Clerk-Treasurer's
office. The permit holder shall be notified of the date, time, and location of
the hearing at least ten days prior to the hearing.
         (e)   At the hearing, the permit holder, as well as city staff, may
appear and may present evidence in support of or in opposition to the
revocation of the permit.
         (f)   A person may not communicate with any member of the Board of
Public Works and Safety before the hearing with an intent to influence the
member's action regarding the permit revocation. However, the city staff may
file with the Board of Public Works and Safety a written statement setting
forth any facts or opinions relating to the matter.
         (g)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall issue written
findings of fact on the appeal and revocation no more than ten days from the
ending date of the hearing, which decision shall be final.
(Ord. 25-30, passed 7-28-2025)
§ 74.07 PERMITTING A VIOLATION.
   A parent, adult, or guardian may not authorize or knowingly allow a golf
cart owned by the person or under the person's control to be operated by a
person who does not have a legal right to do so in violation of § 74.04(A).
(Ord. 25-30, passed 7-28-2025)
§ 74.08 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   In addition to other penalties established in § 74.99, golf carts
operating in violation of § 74.07 shall be subject to removal and impoundment
in accordance with this subchapter, as well as any fees incurred by the golf
cart towing and storage.
   (B)   Any officer of the Westfield Police Department may cause the subject
golf cart to be removed and impounded due to a violation of § 74.07 by an
authorized towing service. When the owner or operator of a golf cart appears
personally at the site of the violation, before the golf cart has been towed,
the golf cart shall not be towed, nor shall any towing fee be charged. However,
when the owner of the golf cart arrives at the site of the violation when the
golf cart is already in the process of being towed, the authorized towing
service shall give the owner either oral or written notification that the owner
or operator may pay a fee in the amount that is not greater than half of the
amount of the fee the authorized towing service would normally charge for the
immediate release of a golf cart. For purposes of this section, a golf cart is
in the process of being towed when it is on the tow truck or trailer of the
towing vehicle.
(Ord. 25-30, passed 7-28-2025)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of any of the conditions imposed by §§
74.01 through
74.06 shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $100 for a first offense,
$150 for a second offense, and $300 for a third or subsequent offense, as well
as all fees associated with the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   A person who violates §
74.07 and allows a violation of this subchapter to occur commits a violation
which shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $100 for a first offense,
$150 for a second offense, and $300 for a third or subsequent offense, as well
as all fees associated with enforcement of this subchapter, and may be issued a
citation to appear in city court or a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   A fine assessed for a violation of this subchapter shall be deposited
into the city's General Fund pursuant to I.C. 9-21-1-3.3.
(Prior Code, § 58-1(d))
(Ord. 10-23, passed 2-28-2011; Ord. 11-16, passed 7-11-2011; Ord. 18-50, passed
11-12-2018; Ord. 25-30, passed 7-28-2025)
CHAPTER 75: ABANDONED VEHICLES; IMPOUNDMENT
Section
   
75.01   Purpose; definition
   
75.02   Designation; removal
   
75.03   Storage and towing
   
75.04   Immediate impoundment
 
   
75.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned motor vehicles, see I.C. 9-22-1
§ 75.01 PURPOSE; DEFINITION.
   (A)   I.C. 9-22-1 et seq. and 9-13-2-1 authorized the city to enact
provisions concerning the disposition of abandoned vehicles.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED VEHICLE. Shall be defined as set forth by I.C. 9-22-1 et seq.
and 9-13-2-1 as follows:
         (a)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
         (b)   A vehicle left on public property continuously without being
moved for three days;
         (c)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle
traffic on a public right-of-way;
         (d)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the
consent of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48
hours;
         (e)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential
has been removed; or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable, and
left on public property;
         (f)   A vehicle which has been impounded upon request of an officer
enforcing an ordinance or statute that is not claimed or redeemed by the owner
or his or her agent within 15 days of its impoundment; and
         (g)   A vehicle that is six or more model years old and mechanically
inoperable; and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 58-291) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
§ 75.02 DESIGNATION; REMOVAL.
   Whenever a police officer of the city finds a vehicle to be an abandoned
vehicle, he or she shall attach to it a notice to remove pursuant to I.C. 9-22-
1 et seq. and 9-13-2-1. The Police Department is authorized to order the
removal of any abandoned vehicle left at any place within the city which has
not been removed within the time provided by the above notice. Any vehicle
removed pursuant to this section may be removed by the Police Department or by
a commercial towing firm. The city may enter into contracts with commercial
towing firms or with garages for necessary removal and storage services.
(Prior Code, § 58-292) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see I.C. 9-22-1-31
§ 75.03 STORAGE AND TOWING.
   (A)   Any vehicle removed pursuant to this section shall be impounded until
lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with I.C. 9-22-1 et seq. and 9-
13-2-1 and the Bureau of Motor Vehicles rules and regulations 140 I.A.C. 5-1.
The impounded vehicle shall be stored at an approved storage site as designated
by the city except in the case where the estimated value of the vehicle, as
determined by the police officer, is less than $100 then the vehicle shall be
immediately towed to an auto scrap yard. All required notices shall be in
accordance with I.C. 9-22-1 et seq. and 9-13-2-1.
   (B)   Towing charges for vehicles removed from private property and valued
at $100 or less may be paid by the city from funds appropriated for such
purpose and the owner of the vehicle shall be billed by the Clerk-Treasurer for
such net costs incurred as established in division (E) below.
   (C)   Towing and storage charges for abandoned vehicles, other than those
removed from private property and valued at $100 or less, shall be paid by the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles in accordance with limitations established by the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles rules and regulations.
   (D)   The Bureau of Motor Vehicles is responsible for the sale of all
abandoned vehicles.
   (E)   Towing charges paid by the city shall not exceed $30.
(Prior Code, § 58-293) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Disposition of vehicle, see I.C. 9-22-1-13 et seq.
   Local procedures and charges, see I.C. 9-22-1-30 et seq.
§ 75.04 IMMEDIATE IMPOUNDMENT.
   Whenever the presence of a vehicle in a public place constitutes an
immediate hazard to the public safety, a police officer of the city may cause
such vehicle to be impounded immediately and within 24 hours shall send notice
of the impoundment by certified mail to the owner of such vehicle, if known,
stating the fact that the vehicle has been impounded, the location thereof, and
the right of the owner to secure possession of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 58-294) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by police, see I.C. 9-21-16-3 et seq.
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any abandoned vehicle as defined by §
75.01 is hereby determined to be a nuisance in accordance with §§
91.01 through
91.13 of this code of ordinances and is subject to abatement and penalties as
specified therein.
   (B)   All recoveries and penalties received under this division shall be
deposited to the General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 58-295) (Ord. 96-21, passed 8-12-1996)
CHAPTER 76: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Four-way stop intersections
      
II.   Three-way stop intersections
      
III.   Two-way stop intersections
      
IV.   One-way stop intersections
      
V.   One-way streets
      
VI.   One-way alleys
      
VII.   Automatic signals
      
VIII.   Yield signs
      
IX
.   City street ownership and speed limits
      
X.   School zone speed limits
      
XI.   Alleys
      
XII.   Traffic control in alleys
SCHEDULE I. FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Andover Parkway and Abigail Drive/Weihe Lane
Andover Parkway                 and Abigail Drive/Weihe Lane
Atwater Avenue                  and Mahoning Road
Barbaro Drive                   and Desert Orchid Drive
Canley Drive                    and Fenside Crossing
Casey Road                      and West 186th Street
Chad Hittle Drive               and Chatham Commons Boulevard
Chatham Bend Drive              and Chatham Green Court/Chatham Green Drive
Connolly Drive                  and Burgess Hill Pass
Desert Orchid Drive             and Middleground Trace/Monarchos Circle
Ditch Road                      and West 156th Street
Ditch Road                      and West 161st Street
East Street                     and East Hoover Street/Deer Walk Trace
Ehrlich Lane                    and Sumrall Place
Golf Club Boulevard             and Bridgewater Club Boulevard
Golf Club Boulevard             and Long Cove Boulevard/Hawks Way
Gray Road                       and East 161st Street
Gray Road                       and East 169th Street
Jonathan Drive                  and Hampton Road/Chamberlain Drive
Lake Winds Drive                and Idlewind Drive
Liberty Drive                   and Declaration Drive
Little Eagle Creek Avenue       and West 166th Street
Maple Creek Drive               and Flowing Creek Way
McDonald Place                  and Sumrall Place
North Union Street              and West Hoover Street/East Hoover Street
Oak Ridge Road                  and East 156th Street
Oak Ridge Road                  and East 169th Street
Oak Ridge Road                  and East Greyhound Pass
Pawtucket Drive                 and Declaration Drive
Puntledge Drive                 and Elkhorn Drive
Romalong Lane                   and East Greyhound Pass/Roman Court
South Waterleaf Drive           and Halston Drive/Parnell Drive
Sumrall Place                   and Faudree Drive
Towne Road                      and West 151st Street
Towne Road                      and West 166th Street
West Rowan Court/West Rowan Run and Heath Circle/Tansey Crossing
West Rowan Run/East Rowan Run   and Bloomfield Court/E Bloomfield Lane
Wendover Avenue                 and Retford Drive
Westfield Boulevard             and Park Street
Wetherington Drive              and Gunther Boulevard/Snowdon Drive
Wheatfield Lane                 and Farmview Lane/Farmview Court
Wheeler Road                    and East 181st Street
 
(Prior Code, § 58-346) (Ord. 23-31, passed 10-23-2023; Ord. 24-11, passed 2-12-
2024; Ord. 24-73, passed 12-23-2024)
SCHEDULE II. THREE-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Amkey Way              and Adios Pass
Belle Crest Way        and Holly Brook Drive/Willow Branch Way
Creekwood Drive        and Shamrock Boulevard
East 147th Street      and Oak Road
East 171st Street      and South Street/Oak Road
East 181st Street      and Dartown Road/Kinsey Avenue
East 186th Street      and Tomlinson Road/Wheeler Road
East Greyhound Pass    and Adios Pass
East Greyhound Pass    and Shoreway East Drive
Fieldgrass Run         and West Columbine Lane/West Tansey Crossing
Hinshaw Way            and Futch Way
Liberty Boulevard (EB) and Alexandria Drive
Liberty Boulevard (WB) and Alexandria Drive
Park Street            and Mill Street
Rippling Creek Way     and Paperbark Creek Drive
Rosemoss Crossing      and East Columbine Lane
Ruffian Drive          and Lord Murphy Drive
Setters Road           and Brasseur Lane
Shoreway East Court    and East Greyhound Pass
Tomlinson Road         and Cox Avenue/203rd Street
West 159th Street      and Little Eagle Creek Avenue
West 191st Street      and Spring Mill Road
West Admiral Way South and Admiral Way North/West Laredo Way South
West Tournament Trail  and Gristmill Road
Westmore Lane          and Chatham Commons Boulevard
 
(Prior Code, § 58-347) (Ord. 23-31, passed 10-23-2023; Ord. 24-11, passed 2-12-
2024)
SCHEDULE III. TWO-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Through Street  Stop Location
Through Street                            Stop Location
Agate Lane                            and East Quail Wood Lane/West Quail Wood
                                          Lane
Alexandria Drive                      and Athens Place
Alexandria Drive                      and Potomac Court/Quincy Place
Alexandria Drive                      and Stockbridge Drive
Allandale Avenue                      and Cowley Drive/Moray Street
Allandale Avenue                      and Pinda Drive
American Lotus Drive                  and Birdsong Drive
American Lotus Drive                  and Farmhouse Drive
American Lotus Drive                  and Rosebank Drive
American Lotus Drive                  and Rossmay Drive
Amkey Way                             and Senator Way
Andover Parkway                       and Abigail Circle/Abigail Drive
Andover Parkway                       and Goldwater Road
Andover Parkway                       and Weihe Lane/Abigail Drive
Arkansas Court                        and Paula Walk
Bedwell Bay Road                      and Moray Street
Bowie Drive                           and Lewiston Drive
Bridgeport Drive                      and Dormont Drive
Bridlewood Drive                      and Bridlewood Lane
Canberra Boulevard                    and Cavallina Lane
Cantata Lane                          and Adagio Way
Captiva Way                           and Manasota Court
Carey Glen Court                      and Glendale Court/Glendale Drive
Casey Road                            and Crosswater Way
Casey Road                            and Steel Horse Drive/William Trace
                                          Boulevard
Cedarbrook Drive/Lucas Drive          and Cross Creek Circle
Clearbrook Drive                      and Stockbridge Drive
Countryside Boulevard                 and Brooksburg Drive/Dupont Lane
Countryside Boulevard                 and Clarks Hill Way/Oldenburg Circle
Countryside Boulevard                 and Lakeville Crossing
Dupont Lane                           and Earl Parkway/Earl Park Court
Durmast Oak Drive                     and Cork Court/Catkins Court
Durmast Oak Drive                     and Sawtooth Oak Circle/Sawtooth Oak
                                          Court
East 146th Street                     and Kourtney Place/Woodgate Drive
East 151st Street                     and Long Cove View/East Blackwolf Run
                                          Drive
East 151st Street                     and Oak Road
East 156th Street                     and Misty Viking Road/Viking Eclipse
                                          Court
East 156th Street                     and Rosemoss Crossing/Overman Boulevard
East 161st Street                     and Bridgewater Club Boulevard/
                                          Brookhollow Drive
East 161st Street                     and Cool Creek Circle/Lantern Park
                                          Parkway
East 161st Street                     and Richters Boulevard/Baltic Pass
East 169th Street                     and Crest Point Drive/Brookhollow Drive
East 169th Street                     and Greensboro Drive/Mapleton Place
East Grand Park Boulevard             and East Grand Park Boulevard at Lot C,
                                          GP Events Center
East Laredo Way North/East Laredo Way and Amkey Way
South
East SR 32                            and North Cherry Street/South Cherry
                                          Street
East SR 32                            and Mill Street/Westlea Drive
East SR 32                            and South Walnut Street/North Walnut
                                          Street
East Street                           and East 196th Street
East Tournament Trail                 and Austrian Pine Way
East Tournament Trail                 and Dartown/Enterprise Drive
Edenvale Drive                        and Birchfield Drive
Ehrlich Lane                          and Baird Way
English Green                         and Clear Lake Court/West Clear Lake Lane
Explanade Street                      and Garrow Drive
Goins Boulevard                       and Northwest Drive
Goins Boulevard                       and River Jordan Drive/River Jordan
                                          Circle
Goins Boulevard                       and Thomas Jefferson Street/Thomas
                                          Jefferson Court
Golf Club Boulevard                   and Market Center Drive
Grassy Branch Road                    and East 196th Street
Gunther Boulevard                     and Heathcliff Court
Harvest Meadows Drive East/Harvest    and Riverstone Court
Meadows Drive West
Hazy Falls Boulevard                  and Sunbrook Way
Hinshaw Way                           and Shadoan Way
Jonathan Drive                        and Newport Drive/Pinceton Lane
Kimblewick Boulevard                  and Lord Murphy Drive
Kingsbridge Boulevard                 and Helston Avenue/Southall Drive
Kingsbridge Boulevard                 and Southall Drive/Knottingly Way
Kingsway Street                       and Davis Drive
Kingsway Street                       and Littlebury Road
Kingsway Street                       and Painter Lane
Kingsway Street                       and Balfe Street
Lantern Park Parkway                  and Morning Drive/Natures Way
Legacy Oaks Drive                     and Fox Bend Court/Thornapple Drive
Liberty Drive                         and Smithfield Drive
Lord Murphy Drive                     and Ruffian Drive
Lunenburg Drive                       and Sullivan Lane
Manassas Drive                        and Belvedere Place/Bridgeport Drive
Maple Park Drive                      and Harvest Meadows Drive East/Harvest
                                          Meadows Drive South
Maple Park Drive                      and Harvest Meadows Drive West/Harvest
                                          Meadows Drive South
Merrimac Drive                        and Linn Court/Newport Drive
Mill Street                           and Jersey Street
Moose Ridge Lane                      and Sunbrook Way
Muscatine Way/Muscatine Circle        and Cristin Way/Cristin Circle
New Haven Drive                       and Stockbridge Drive
North Street                          and North Cherry Street
Oak Manor Drive                       and Caden Court
Oak Manor Drive                       and Old Vines Drive
Oak Road/Silver Thorne Way            and Oak Road/Mia Drive
Oak Ridge Road                        and Citation Road/McNamara Court
Oak Ridge Road                        and Foundation Parkway/Sawtooth Street
Oak Ridge Road                        and Holly Lane Farms Drive/Viking Warrior
                                          Boulevard
Oak Ridge Road                        and Legacy Oaks Drive/Sapphire Drive
Oak Ridge Road                        and Plainville Drive/Ridgewood Avenue
Oak Ridge Road                        and Southpark Drive
Palmyra Drive                         and Dandborn Drive/Dandborn Green
Palmyra Drive                         and Etna Drive/Etna Green
Peabody Way                           and Avebury Lane/Avebury Circle
Peacehaven Place                      and Morley Lane/Morley Court
Penn Street                           and North Cherry Street
Penn Street                           and Walnut Street
Poplar Street                         and Jersey Street
Racetime Road                         and Viking Sunrise Lane
Richland Way                          and Jonathan Drive/Story Court
Ridgefield Place                      and Lunenburg Drive
South Union Street                    and Ashley Wood Drive/David Brown Drive
South Union Street                    and Cherrywood Court/Addison Court
Sanibel Circle                        and Beach Club Drive
Sapphire Drive                        and Victory Court
Scofield Ridge Boulevard              and Hayward Way
Semillion Boulevard                   and Clairet Drive/Petit Verdot Drive
Setters Road                          and Birkdale Boulevard
Shady Lake Drive                      and Birdview Court/Edinbrook Lane
Shady Nook Road                       and Amesbury Place/Shady Lake Drive
Sheffield Park Way                    and Kate Court/Sun Valley Drive
Shelborne Road                        and West 146th Street
Silver Thorne Way                     and Copper Tree Way
Somerville Drive                      and Montclair Drive
Somerville Drive                      and Waterleaf Drive/South Waterleaf Drive
Spinnaker Drive                       and Mooring Circle west
Spring Lake Drive/Lakeville Crossing  and West Clear Lake Lane/East Clear Lake
                                          Lane
Spring Mill Road                      and Canberra Boulevard/Desoto Boulevard
Spring Mill Road                      and Fieldgrass Run/Liberty Boulevard
Spring Mill Road                      and Tricia Lane/Wendover Avenue
Spring Mill Road                      and West 169th Street
Stonnenger Street                     and Carmack Court/Layman Place
Sun Park Drive                        and Sun Park Drive
Sun Valley Court/Sun Valley Drive     and Redpointe Drive
Tausen Place                          and Smiley Court/Goldwater Road
Tomlinson Road                        and Chatham Hills Boulevard
Tricia Lane                           and Lillian Street
Valcour Place                         and Lunenburg Drive
Valcour Place                         and Mobley Drive
Viking Warrior Boulevard              and Harstad Court/Harstad Drive
Village Park East Drive               and Village Park South Drive/Village Park
                                          Circle
West 151st Street                     and American Lotus Drive
West 151st Street                     and Barbaro Drive/Buchanan Lane
West 151st Street                     and Kingsway Street/Valcour Place
West156th Street                      and Declaration Drive/West Rail Drive
West 161st Street                     and Hadleigh Pass/Trestle Drive
West 169th Street                     and Kingsbridge Boulevard
West 169th Street                     and Lakeville Crossing
West 193rd Street                     and Astoria Avenue/Casey Road
West 193rd Street                     and Spring Mill Road
West Greyhound Pass                   and Senator Way
West Springmill Pointe Drive/Parking  and Meijer Drive
Lot
West SR 32                            and Joliet Road
Washington Street                     and Little Eagle Creek Avenue
Wendover Avenue                       and Retford Drive
Willow Creek Way                      and Cedarbrook Drive/White Willow Drive
 
(Prior Code, § 58-348) (Ord. 23-31, passed 10-23-2023; Ord. 24-11, passed 2-12-
2024; Ord. 24-73, passed 12-23-2024)
SCHEDULE IV. ONE-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Through Street
Through Street
Adelaide Street                             and Portobello Place
Abbedale Court                              and Pacer Court
Abbedale Court                              and Trotter Court
Addison Court                               and Tourmaline Drive
Adena Lane                                  and Knobstone Way
Adios Pass                                  and Adios Court
Adios Pass                                  and East Admiral Way South
Adios Pass                                  and Kerry Court
Adlo Lane                                   and Workington Way
Allen Court                                 and Montrose Lane
Allesley Way                                and Gibbert Lane
Allure Drive                                and Ballad Way
Allure Drive                                and Cantata Lane
Allure Drive                                and Chanson Lane
Amberleaf Trail                             and Timberbrook Run
Ambrosia Trail                              and Rambo Drive
Amesbury Place                              and Emma Circle
Amesbury Place                              and Jaden Drive
Amesbury Place                              and La Costa Way
Amesbury Place                              and Pearson Drive
Amesbury Place                              and Sadie Lane
Amesbury Place                              and Walcott Drive
Amkey Way                                   and Amkey Court
Andover Parkway                             and Ireland Way
Andover Parkway                             and Limbaugh Way
Andover Parkway                             and McFall Drive
Annabel Court/Palomar Drive                 and Somerville Drive
Ashfield Drive                              and Caitlin Way
Arkansas Lane                               and Ambrosia Trail
Astoria Avenue                              and Mahoning Road
Atwater Avenue                              and Astoria Avenue
Austrian Pine Way                           and East 175th Street
Austrian Pine Way                           and Flat Rock Drive
Austrian Pine Way                           and East Spring Mill Pointe Drive
Avebury Lane/Sherlock Drive                 and Grimmenstein Drive
Avondale Drive                              and American Lotus Drive
Avondale Drive                              and Edenvale Drive
Avondale Drive                              and Heatherbank Drive
Avondale Drive                              and Holcombe Drive
Avondale Drive                              and Larchwood Drive
Axford Bay Drive                            and Terra Vista Place
Baisley Trail                               and Cline Street
Bald Tree Drive                             and Glenview Road
Barley Circle                               and Wheatfield Lane
Beach Club Drive                            and Cristin Way
Beacon Boulevard                            and Beacon Court
Beacon Boulevard                            and Beacon Way
Beacon Way                                  and Beacon Park Drive
Beck Way                                    and Mithoff Lane
Bedwell Bay Road                            and Explanade Street
Beeblossom Drive                            and Fenchurch Drive
Beeblossom Drive                            and Woodford Drive
Beechwood Drive                             and Maple Lane
Belterra Place                              and Hallfield Road
Belvedere Place                             and Roanoke Drive
Bender Way                                  and Ehrlich Lane
Bethesda Circle/Marietta Circle             and Drexler Drive
Bingham Drive                               and Southwell Drive
Birchfield Drive                            and Marsden Drive
Birchfield Drive                            and Starflower Drive
Birkdale Boulevard                          and Glenmoore Circle
Birkdale Boulevard                          and Karsten Circle
Birkdale Drive                              and Briarpatch Circle
Birkdale Drive                              and Harbour Ridge Circle
Birkdale Drive                              and Oak Hollow Court
Birkdale Drive                              and Oak Hollow Lane West
Birkdale Drive                              and Sunningdale Way
Bixby Drive                                 and Palomar Drive
Bixby Drive                                 and Roseclair Drive
Blackwolf Run Drive                         and Birkdale Boulevard
Blackwolf Run Drive                         and Birkdale Boulevard
Bowie Drive                                 and Liberty Drive
Boyd Place                                  and Mcfall Drive
Brasseur Lane                               and Inez Setters Lane
Brasseur Lane                               and Straley Court
Bridgewater Club Boulevard                  and Falls Circle
Bridgewater Club Boulevard                  and Sterling Bluff Court
Bridlewood Drive                            and Curry Lane
Brigham Lane                                and Chick Evans Way
Brindle Street                              and Keck Way
Brindle Street                              and McDonald Place
Broken Arrow Drive                          and Southwell Drive
Brookhollow Drive                           and Flowing Water Way
Brookhollow Drive                           and Riddell Lane
Brookhollow Drive                           and Tributary Court
Brooksburg Drive                            and Burket Drive
Buchanan Lane                               and Lord Murphy Drive
Buchanan Lane                               and Old Rosebud Lane
Bulgar Lane                                 and Sumrall Place
Burgess Hill Pass                           and Featherstone Drive
Burgess Hill Pass                           and Hythe Way
Burgess Hill Pass                           and Julep Lane
Burgess Hill Pass                           and Peacehaven Place
Burgess Hill Pass                           and Trifecta Way
Burgess Hill Pass/Lynton Way                and Redhill Road
Burket Drive/Burket Court                   and Wanatah Trail
Burntwood Way                               and Retford Drive
Burntwood Way                               and Tilbury Way
Burntwood Way/South Burntwood Way           and Petersfield Lane
Burton Way                                  and Copper Hill Court
Buxton Drive                                and Buxton Court
Buxton Drive                                and Cheltenham Drive
Buxton Drive                                and Radford Court
Buxton Drive/Gateshead Drive                and Knighton Court
Buxton Drive/Gateshead Drive                and Overman Boulevard
Byrding Drive                               and Lamgate Drive
Byrding Drive/Longship Court                and Byrding Court
Byrding Drive/Silverdale Court              and Voyager Drive
Byrne Street                                and Lynch Lane
Byrne Street                                and Doyle Court
Canberra Boulevard                          and Del Mar Way
Canberra Boulevard                          and Oaklawn Drive
Canley Drive                                and Edwick Drive
Cantata Lane                                and Allegro Drive
Cantata Lane                                and Allure Drive
Captiva Way                                 and Boca Grande Court
Captiva Way                                 and Dunedin Court
Captiva Way                                 and Middle Drive
Captiva Way                                 and Tarpon Bay Drive
Captiva Way                                 and Useppa Court
Carey Glen Court                            and Carter Court
Carey Road                                  and Belterra Place
Carey Road                                  and Carey Glen Court
Carey Road                                  and East 169th Street
Carey Road                                  and Hinshaw Way
Carey Road                                  and Joshua Circle
Carey Road                                  and Oak Manor Drive
Carey Road                                  and Pace Drive
Carey Road                                  and Paired Oaks Lane
Carey Road                                  and Pete Dye Boulevard
Carey Road                                  and Saddlehorn Drive
Carey Road                                  and Springmeadow Lane
Carey Road                                  and Village Park North Drive
Cavallina Lane                              and Maverick Court
Cedar Grove Landing                         and Maybell Lane
Chad Hittle Drive                           and Chad Hittle Court
Challenger Drive                            and Harbinger Court
Chancellors Ridge Way                       and Chancellors Court
Chancellors Ridge Way                       and Spillwater Way
Chancellors Ridge Way                       and Woodcrest Court
Chancellors Ridge Way/Flowing Water Way     and Downstream Drive
Chatham Brook Drive                         and Chatham Bend Drive
Chatham Hills Boulevard                     and Arbor Creek Drive
Chatham Hills Boulevard                     and Chatham Brook Drive
Chatham Hills Boulevard                     and Windsor Park Drive
Cheltenham Drive                            and Bolton Circle
Chick Evans Way                             and Owen Drive
Citation Road                               and Belle Forch Court
Citation Road                               and Citation Court
Clairet Drive/Petit Verdot Drive            and Malbec Circle
Clarks Hill Way                             and Channelburg Boulevard
Clarks Hill Way                             and Paragon Lane
Cloverdon Drive                             and Marsden Drive
College Avenue                              and South Walnut Street
Collins Drive                               and Towne Road
Commercial Park Drive                       and SR 38
Commercial Park Drive                       and Grassy Branch Road
Commercial Street                           and Fern Street
Conductors Drive                            and Boxcar Court
Conductors Drive                            and Cedar Grove Landing
Conductors Drive                            and Trestle Drive
Conductors Drive                            and West Rail Drive
Connolly Drive                              and Morley Lane
Corsican Circle                             and Torrey Court
Corsican Circle                             and Whitebark Court
Cortland Lane                               and Macoun Drive
Count Fleet Court                           and Bali Hai Court
Count Fleet Court                           and Dan Patch Court
Countryside Boulevard                       and Markleville Lane
Cowie Lane                                  and Bender Way
Cowie Lane                                  and Faudree Drive
Creeks Crossing Drive                       and Flowing Creek Place
Creekwood Drive                             and Highwood Drive
Crest Point Drive                           and Challenger Drive
Crispin Lane                                and Paula Walk
Crispin Lane                                and Ambrosia Trail
Cristin Way                                 and Ashfield Drive
Cristin Way                                 and Caitlin Way
Cristin Way                                 and Nyla Court
Crosswater Way                              and Sandy Cove Lane
Curry Lane                                  and Horseshoe Drive
Cyclamen Chase                              and Viburnum Run
Dandborn Drive                              and Marengo Trail
Dandborn Drive/Plainville Drive             and Channelburg Boulevard
Daniel Court/Kennard Lane                   and Yeoman Way
Dartown Road                                and Alpha Drive
Dartown Road                                and Enterprise Drive
David Brown Drive                           and Westfield Boulevard
Dawnhaven Drive                             and Birdsong Drive
Dawnhaven Drive                             and Farmhouse Drive
Daylily Court                               and Cyprian Circle
Declaration Drive                           and Belvedere Place
Declaration Drive                           and Manassas Drive
Declaration Drive                           and Roanoke Drive
Declaration Drive                           and Watertown Drive
Depoe Lane                                  and Onset Way
Deer Walk Trace                             and Wind Skip Circle
Deerwood Drive                              and Eaglewood Court
Deerwood Drive                              and Fernwood Drive
Deerwood Drive                              and Lockwood Drive
Desert Orchid Drive                         and 146th Frontage Road
Desert Orchid Drive                         and Barbaro Drive
Desert Orchid Drive                         and Flying Ebony Trail
Del Mar Way                                 and Gosford Court
Ditch Road                                  and Derby Ridge Court
Ditch Road                                  and Gristmill Meadows Drive
Ditch Road                                  and Julep Lane
Ditch Road                                  and Locomotive Drive
Ditch Road                                  and Pawtucket Drive
Ditch Road                                  and Semillion Boulevard
Ditch Road                                  and Sunbrook Way
Ditch Road                                  and West 166th Street
Ditch Road                                  and West 171st Street
Ditch Road                                  and West Tournament Trail
Donelson Lane                               and Elijah Drive
Donelson Lane                               and Hayward Way
Donelson Lane/Donelson Court                and West Fork Drive
Downstream Drive                            and Ridgebrook Drive
Downstream Drive                            and Solitude Court
Dupont Court/Dupont Lane                    and Earl Park Way
Durmast Oak Drive                           and Post Oak Court
Durmast Oak Drive/Old Vines Drive           and Paired Oaks Lane
East 146th Street                           and Deerwood Drive
East 146th Street                           and Setters Road
East 146th Street                           and Village Park East Drive
East 151st Street                           and Birkdale Drive
East 151st Street                           and Bridlewood Drive
East 151st Street                           and Setters Road
East151st Street/East Greyhound Pass        and East Greyhound Pass
East 156th Street                           and East Columbine Lane
East 156th Street                           and Viking Crusader Court
East 156th Street                           and Viking Meadows Drive
East 156th Street                           and Voyager Drive
East 156th Street                           and West Evening Rose Way
East 161st Street                           and Haddam Lane
East 161st Street                           and Oak Park Court
East 161st Street                           and Viking Lair Road
East 169th Street                           and Birdseye Drive
East 169th Street                           and Countryside Boulevard
East 169th Street                           and George Gang Boulevard
East 169th Street                           and Hawk Creek Circle
East 169th Street                           and Olympus Boulevard
East 169th Street                           and Puntledge Drive
East 169th Street                           and Southpark Drive
East 169th Street                           and Westfield Park Road
East 169th Street/David Brown Drive         and Dean Road
East 171st Street                           and Futch Way
East 175th Street                           and Tiller Court
East 181st Street                           and Market Court
East 181st Street                           and Sun Park Drive
East 186th Street                           and Carousel Lane
East 191st Street                           and Chatham Commons Boulevard
East 191st Street                           and East Grand Park Boulevard
East 191st Street                           and Flippins Road
East 191st Street                           and Goins Boulevard
East 191st Street                           and Northbrook Circle
East 191st Street                           and Scofield Farms Boulevard
East 191st Street                           and Shady Nook Road
East 191st Street                           and Westmore Lane
East 191st Street/West 191st Street         and Horton Road
East 196th Street                           and Ethan Allen Lane
East 196th Street                           and Flippins Road
East 196th Street                           and Justin Morgan Drive
East 196th Street                           and Scofield Ridge Boulevard
East 199th Street                           and Windsor Park Drive
East 203rd Street/Cox Avenue                and Tomlinson Road
East 206th Street                           and Oak Ridge Road
East Blackwolf Run Drive                    and West Blackwolf Run Drive
East Bloomfield Lane                        and East Wisteria Way
East Clear Lake Lane                        and Birdseye Drive
East Clear Lake Lane                        and Kirklin Drive
East Clear Lake Lane                        and Newberry Lane
East Clear Lake Lane                        and Troy Lane
East Evening Rose Way                       and Sundew Circle
East Flat Rock Drive/West Flat Rock Drive   and Pine Wood Lane
East Greyhound Pass                         and Ascot Hills Drive South
East Greyhound Pass                         and Citation Road
East Greyhound Pass                         and Corral Court
East Greyhound Pass                         and Countfleet Court
East Greyhound Pass                         and Cynthia Court
East Greyhound Pass                         and Goodtime Court
East Greyhound Pass                         and Olde Briar Lane
East Greyhound Pass                         and Stars Pride Court
East Greyhound Pass                         and Susan Court
East Greyhound Pass                         and Valley View Drive
East Laredo Way North                       and Mercury Court
East Laredo Way South                       and Sulky Way
East Laredo Way South/West Laredo Way South and Laredo Court
East Main Street                            and East Street
East Main Street                            and Hillcrest Drive
East Main Street                            and South Gurley Street
East Main Street                            and Timberbrook Run
East Main Street                            and Willow Creek Way
East Pine Ridge Drive                       and Austrian Pine Way
East Pine Ridge Drive                       and Norway Spruce Lane
East Pine Ridge Drive                       and Pine Wood Lane
East Quail Ridge Drive                      and East Quail Wood Lane
East Quail Ridge Drive                      and Nuttal Street
East Quail Wood Lane                        and Norway Spruce Lane
East Quail Wood Lane                        and Troy Lane
East Rowan Run                              and Cornflower Court
East Senator Way                            and Romalong Court
East Senator Way                            and Sulky Way
East South Street                           and Andry Court
East South Street                           and Rushmore Drive
East South Street                           and South Cherry Street
East South Street                           and South Walnut Street
East South Street                           and Sanders Farm Circle
East SR 32                                  and Austrian Pine Way
East SR 32                                  and Sanibel Circle
East SR 32                                  and Shady Nook Road
East SR 32                                  and Sun Park Drive
East SR 38                                  and Lindley Farm Road
Eagletown Road                              and Fern Street
Eagletown Road                              and Washington Street
East Street                                 and Bastian Court
East Street                                 and Beechwood Drive
East Street                                 and Birch Street
East Street                                 and Catherine Drive
East Street                                 and East 186th Street
East Street                                 and East 202nd Street
East Street                                 and Fenside Crossing
East Street                                 and Grassy Branch Road
East Street                                 and Maple Park Drive
East Street                                 and North Union Street
East Street                                 and North Street
East Street                                 and Penn Street
East Street                                 and Savannah Lane
East Street                                 and Sleepy Hollow Drive
East Street                                 and Sycamore Street
Edenvale Drive                              and Cloverdon Drive
Edinbrook Court                             and Edinbrook Lane
Edwick Drive                                and Gibbert Lane
Ehrlich Lane                                and Faudree Drive
Ehrlich Lane                                and McDonald Place
Elise Drive                                 and Sumrall Place
Elkhorn Court/Elkhorn Drive                 and Meggs Street
Elkhorn Drive                               and Golden Hinde Way
Elkhorn Way                                 and Elkhorn Drive
Elkhorn Way                                 and Wetherington Drive
Elyse Lane                                  and Shine Court
Elyse Lane                                  and Keller Terrace
Emerald Pines Lane                          and Austrian Court
Emerald Pines Lane                          and Corsican Circle
Emerald Pines Lane                          and Emerald Court
Emerald Pines Lane                          and Emerald Green Circle
English Green                               and Fillmore Way
English Green                               and Napoleon Court
Everest Drive                               and Williamson Lane
Everest Drive/Whitney Road                  and Matterhorn Drive
Explanade Street                            and Axford Bay Drive
Explanade Street                            and Tuxedo Drive
Explanade Street                            and Weldon Way
Farmview Lane                               and Harvest Drive
Farr Hills Drive                            and Rolling Court
Faudree Drive                               and Baird Way
Faudree Drive                               and Sumrall Place
Featherstone Drive                          and Esher Court
Featherstone Drive                          and Hythe Way
Fenchurch Drive                             and Avondale Drive
Fenchurch Drive                             and Beeblossom Drive
Fenchurch Drive                             and Granville Drive
Fenchurch Drive                             and Ponsonby Drive
Fenchurch Drive                             and Wellpark Drive
Fenchurch Drive                             and Woodford Drive
Fenside Crossing                            and Bannerbrook Drive
Fenside Crossing                            and Gibbert Lane
Fernwood Drive                              and Lockwood Drive
Flowing Creek Place                         and Flowing Creek Way
Flowing Creek Way                           and Creeks Edge Court
Fox Lane                                    and Super Star Drive
Francis Court                               and Roseclair Drive
Free Spirit Way/Free Spirit Court           and Redpointe Drive
Gaither Boulevard                           and Hawk Creek Circle
Gaither Boulevard/Gaither Court             and Pace Drive
Garrow Drive                                and Terre Vista Place
Gasparilla Court                            and Manasota Court
Gasparilla Court                            and Middle Drive
Gateshead Drive                             and Cheltenham Drive
Gateshead Drive                             and Gateshead Court
Gateshead Drive                             and Lamgate Drive
George Gang Boulevard                       and Majestic Oak Court
George Gang Boulevard                       and Miller Way
George Gang Boulevard                       and Pristine Court
George Gang Boulevard/Picola Court          and Shumard Oak Drive
Glen Way/Glen Court                         and Ridgebrook Drive
Glenview Road                               and 186th Street
Goins Boulevard                             and Dylan Way
Goins Boulevard                             and Lehigh Avenue
Goins Boulevard                             and Pullman Road
Goins Boulevard                             and Railhead Avenue
Goins Boulevard                             and River Jordan Pass
Golden Hinde Way                            and Puntledge Drive
Golden Hinde Way                            and Schweitzer Drive
Golf Club Boulevard                         and Market Center Drive
Grabill Drive                               and East Clear Lake Lane
Graley Place/Tricia Lane                    and Graley Place
Grand Harbor Boulevard                      and Kinsey Avenue
Grand Harbor Boulevard                      and Boothbay Court
Grandview Way                               and Shaelynn Court
Grandview Way                               and Windwood Circle
Granville Drive                             and Fairlands Drive
Granville Drive                             and Ponsonby Drive
Grassy Branch Road                          and Bannerbrook Drive
Grassy Branch Road                          and East 203rd Street
Grassy Branch Road                          and Goins Boulevard
Grassy Branch Road                          and Grandview Way
Grassy Branch Road                          and Grassy Knoll Drive
Grassy Branch Road                          and Mere Boulevard
Grassy Branch Road                          and Nancy Street
Grassy Knoll Drive                          and Azalea Court
Grassy Knoll Drive                          and Crocus Court
Grassy Knoll Drive                          and Redbud Court
Grassy Knoll Drive                          and Trillium Court
Gray Road                                   and East 151st Street
Gray Road                                   and Golden Hinde Way
Gray Road                                   and Golf Club Boulevard
Gray Road                                   and Guerin Way
Gray Road                                   and Whitney Road
Greensboro Drive                            and Carthage Circle
Greensboro Drive                            and Kennard Lane
Greensboro Drive                            and Yeoman Way
Haddam Lane                                 and Greenwich Drive
Hadleigh Court                              and Matlock Circle
Hadleigh Court/Hadleigh Pass                and Bromley Way
Hadleigh Pass                               and Dursley Court
Hadleigh Pass                               and Howden Drive
Hadleigh Pass                               and Maryport Drive
Hallfield Road                              and Belterra Place
Hampton Road                                and Princeton Lane
Hankview Lane                               and Plowman Drive
Haralson Row                                and Cortland Lane
Haralson Row                                and Macoun Drive
Harley Lane                                 and Baird Way
Harley Lane                                 and Sumrall Place
Harstad Boulevard/Viking Warrior Drive      and Baltic Pass
Harvest Drive                               and Barley Circle
Harvest Drive                               and Harvest Court
Harvest Meadows Drive East                  and Fieldstone Court
Harvest Meadows Drive West                  and Woodstream Court
Hawaii Court                                and Rambo Drive
Hawk Creek Circle                           and Gaither Boulevard
Hawkview Lane                               and Plowman Drive
Hazy Falls Boulevard                        and Starview Drive
Hazy Falls Boulevard/Hazy Falls Court       and Timber Bluff Road
Heathcliff Court                            and Drummond Place
Heathcliff Court                            and Falkland Place
Heatherbank Drive                           and Cloverdon Drive
Heatherbank Drive                           and Wellpark Drive
Helston Avenue                              and Stroud Lane
Hickory Manor Lane                          and Willow Branch Way
Highclere Lane                              and Folsome Avenue
Hillyer Lane                                and Mahoning Road
Holcombe Drive                              and Rossmay Drive
Holly Lane Farms Drive                      and Storm Jib Court
Horseshoe Drive                             and Bridlewood Lane
Horseshoe Drive                             and Windmill Circle
Horseshoe Drive                             and Windmill Drive
Horton Road                                 and Chatham Brook Drive
Howden Drive                                and Maryport Drive
Hush Hickory Bend                           and Hidden Willow Court
Hythe Way                                   and Featherstone Drive
Idlewind Court                              and Edinbrook Court
Idlewind Court/Idlewind Drive               and Roudebushway
Ireland Way                                 and Boyd Place
Iron Liege Way                              and Barbaro Drive
Iron Liege Way                              and Flying Ebony Trail
Jack View Drive                             and Patty Lane
Jaden Drive                                 and Peabody Way
Jaden Drive                                 and Sherlock Drive
Jaiper Way                                  and Mahoning Road
Joliet Road                                 and West Jefferson Street
Joshua Circle                               and Billiter Court
Julep Lane                                  and Man O War Lane
Justin Morgan Drive                         and Dan Patch Lane
Keck Way                                    and Michelle Lane
Keck Way                                    and Brindle Street
Keller Terrace                              and Updike Circle
Keller Terrace/Wentz Drive                  and Short Terrace
Kimblewick Boulevard                        and Old Rosebud Lane
Kingsbridge Boulevard                       and Kimberly Avenue
Kingsbridge Boulevard                       and Maidstone Avenue
Kingsbridge Boulevard                       and Warrington Avenue
Kingsway Street                             and Tompkins Drive
Kirklin Drive                               and Grabill Drive
Kohut Lane                                  and Kohut Court
La Costa Way                                and Pearson Drive
La Costa Way                                and Zachary Lane
Lake Winds Drive                            and Idlewind Drive
Lakes End Court/Lakes End Drive             and Roudebush Way
Lakes End Drive/Shady Lake Drive            and Mere Boulevard
Lakeville Crossing                          and Colfax Lane
Lakeville Crossing                          and English Green
Lakeville Crossing                          and Orland Overlook
Lakeville Crossing                          and Onward Drive
Larchwood Drive                             and Marshrose Drive
Larchwood Drive                             and Rossmay Drive
Legacy Oaks Drive                           and Heatherton Drive
Legacy Oaks Drive/Ressler Court             and Whispering Oaks Drive
Liberty Drive                               and Clearbrook Street
Liberty Drive                               and New Haven Drive
Liberty Drive                               and Troy Drive
Liberty Drive/Pawtucket Drive               and Liberty Boulevard
Little Eagle Creek Avenue                   and Country Place
Little Eagle Creek Avenue                   and Shelborne Road
Little Eagle Creek Avenue                   and Towne Road
Little Eagle Creek Avenue                   and West 156th Street
Locomotive Drive                            and Caboose Court
Lord Murphy Drive                           and Buchanan Lane
Lord Murphy Drive                           and Eclipse Road
Lucas Drive                                 and Lucas Circle
Lunenburg Drive                             and Sullivan Lane
Lynch Lane                                  and Collins Drive
Lynton Way                                  and Stafford Drive
Macoun Drive                                and Casey Road
Macoun Drive                                and Cortland Lane/Cortland Court
Macoun Drive                                and Paula Walk
Madeline Lane                               and Erica Lane
Madeline Lane                               and Rachel Lane
Mahoning Road                               and Highclere Lane
Man O War Lane                              and Trifecta Way
Manassas Drive/New Haven Drive              and Bainbridge Court
Manning Way                                 and Morel Way
Maple Creek Drive                           and Creeks Bend Court
Maple Ridge Court/Maple Ridge Drive         and Oak Bluffs Drive
Maple Ridge Drive                           and Maples Edge Court
Maple Ridge Drive                           and Spring Winds Drive
Maple Street                                and Jersey Street
Marengo Trail                               and Ambia Circle
Marengo Trail                               and Etna Drive
Market Center Drive                         and Spinnaker Drive
Markleville Lane                            and Milhousen Trail
Maryport Drive                              and Corby Court
Matterhorn Drive                            and Ranier Circle
Mayfield Court                              and Mayfield Drive
McCray Lane                                 and Foley Drive
McDonald Place                              and Cline Street
McDonald Place                              and Ehrlich Lane
McDonald Place                              and Michelle Lane/Wilkey Circle
Mcintosh Lane/River Birch Road              and Beechnut Drive
Meggs Street                                and Elicia Court
Meggs Street                                and Schweitzer Drive
Meijer Drive                                and SR 32
Merrimac Drive                              and Henderson Court
Merrimac Drive                              and Melbourne Court
Merrimac Drive                              and Chamberlain Drive
Merrimac Drive                              and Melbourne Court
Michelle Lane                               and Keck Lane
Misty Viking Road                           and Viking Sunrise Lane
Monmouth Drive                              and Dormont Drive
Monmouth Drive                              and Montclair Drive
Montclair Drive                             and Annapolis Drive
Montclair Drive                             and Rutherford Drive
Montclair Drive                             and Trescott Drive
Montclair Drive                             and Wolcott Court
Montgomery Drive                            and Alexandria Drive
Moontown Road                               and Amesbury Place
Moontown Road                               and Andover Parkway
Moontown Road                               and Ashfield Drive
Moontown Road                               and East 186th Street
Moontown Road                               and Jaden Drive
Moose Court/Moose Lane                      and Graley Place
Moose Ridge Lane                            and Scout Lane
Morel Way                                   and Portobello Place
Morel Way/Porcini Way                       and Balfe Street
Muscatine Way                               and Sadie Lane
North Union Street                          and Beechwood Drive
North Union Street                          and Catherine Drive
North Union Street                          and Immi Way
North Union Street                          and Maple Park Drive
North Union Street                          and Northwalk Circle
North Union Street                          and Penn Street
Nashua Circle/Seneca Circle                 and Troy Drive
Newberry Lane                               and Winslow Drive
Nickel Plate Drive                          and Adena Lane
Nickel Plate Drive                          and Crosswater Way
Nickel Plate Drive                          and Rattlebox Lane
Nocturne Drive                              and Aria Way
Nocturne Drive                              and Chanson Lane
Nocturne Drive                              and Luster Lane
Nocturne Drive                              and Stanza Way
Nolan Court                                 and Collins Drive
Northam Drive                               and Haxby Lane
Northwest Drive                             and Lehigh Avenue
Northwest Drive                             and Riley Street
Oak Bluffs Drive                            and Winds Crest Drive
Oak Hollow Lane West                        and Oak Hollow Lane East
Oak Manor Drive                             and Chalet Circle
Oak Manor Drive                             and Daylily Court
Oak Manor Drive                             and Diamente Drive
Oak Park Court                              and Oak Park Circle
Oak Park Vista                              and Oak Park Lane
Oak Road                                    and Emerald Pines Lane
Through Street
Oak Road                                    and Maple Ridge Drive
Oak Road                                    and Oak Manor Drive
Oak Road                                    and Oak Way Trace
Oak Road                                    and Silver Court
Oak Road                                    and Silver Thorne Way
Oak Ridge Road                              and Appolo Parkway
Oak Ridge Road                              and East Pine Ridge Drive
Oak Ridge Road                              and East Quail Ridge Drive
Oak Ridge Road                              and Fox Lane
Oak Ridge Road                              and Greensboro Drive
Oak Ridge Road                              and Greyhound Circle
Oak Ridge Road                              and Mapleton Place
Oak Ridge Road                              and Racetime Road
Oak Ridge Road                              and Super Star Drive
Oak Way Trace                               and Oak Park Vista
Ogala Drive                                 and Knobstone Way
Ogala Drive                                 and Pate Hollow Court
Ogala Drive                                 and Pennsy Way
Oldenburg Circle                            and Oldenburg Circle
Olympus Boulevard                           and Creston Court
Olympus Boulevard/Olympus Court             and Matterhorn Drive
Onset Way                                   and Depoe Lane
Onward Drive                                and Zenith Drive
Oxbow Drive                                 and Desoto Boulevard
Pace Drive                                  and Glendale Drive
Painter Lane                                and Brees Drive
Palmyra Drive                               and Hymera Green
Palmyra Drive                               and Marengo Trail
Palmyra Drive                               and Palmyra Green
Palmyra Drive                               and Plainville Drive
Palmyra Drive                               and Richters Boulevard
Paperbark Creek Court/Creeks Crossing Court and Copper Creek Court
Paperbark Creek Court/Paperbark Creek Drive and Rippling Creek Court
Park Street                                 and Maple Street
Park Street                                 and Parkway Circle
Parker Lane                                 and Pennsy Way
Parker Lane                                 and Shelton Cove Way
Patty Lane                                  and Heartland Drive
Paula Walk                                  and Macoun Drive
Paula Walk                                  and Stayman Way
Pawtucket Drive                             and Clearbrook Street
Pawtucket Drive                             and Drexler Drive
Pawtucket Drive                             and Lewiston Drive
Pearson Drive                               and Zachary Lane
Pennsy Way                                  and Adena Lane
Pennsy Way                                  and Rattlebox Lane
Pennsy Way                                  and Ventura Drive
Pete Dye Boulevard                          and Champion Circle
Pete Dye Boulevard                          and Honors Circle
Petersfield Lane                            and Northwich Avenue
Petit Verdot Drive/Clairet Drive            and Malbec Circle
Petit Verdot Drive/Clairet Drive            and Semillion Boulevard
Pheasant Run                                and Buffalo Circle
Pheasant Run                                and Rushmore Drive
Piedmont Drive                              and Clearbrook Street
Piedmont Drive                              and Montgomery Drive
Pinda Drive                                 and Bedwell Bay Road
Pink Start Court                            and Barbaro Drive
Plainville Drive                            and Elnora Lane
Pollard Drive                               and Birdsong Drive
Pollard Drive                               and Farmhouse Drive
Pollard Drive                               and Rosebank Drive
Potomac Court                               and Kilburn Court
Pullman Road                                and Riley Street
Puntledge Drive                             and Crest Point Drive
Puntledge Drive                             and Eldred Court
Pyrenean Place/Cordial Court                and Durmast Oak Drive
Racetime Road                               and Misty Viking Road
Rachel Lane                                 and Kourtney Place
Railhead Avenue                             and Elijah Drive
Rambo Drive                                 and Stayman Way
Rambo Drive                                 and Spring Mill Road
Rattlebox Lane                              and Burton Way
Rattlebox Lane                              and Rickety Drive
Redhill Road                                and Stafford Drive
Reichart Drive                              and Patty Lane
Retford Drive                               and Denton Court
Retford Drive                               and Kempson Court
Retford Drive                               and Northwich Avenue
Richland Way                                and Hunter Court
Richland Way                                and Maggie Court
Richland Way/Warner Trail                   and Halifax Court
Rickety Drive                               and Steel Horse Drive
Ridgebrook Drive                            and Morris Manor Court
Ridgefield Place                            and Mobley Drive
Ridgefield Place                            and Staten Court
Ridgewood Avenue                            and Montrose Lane
Riley Street                                and Dylan Way
River Birch Road                            and Blackberry Court
River Birch Road                            and Mcintosh Lane
Romalong Court                              and Romalong Lane
Rosemoss Crossing                           and Cyclamen Chase
Rosemoss Crossing                           and Wildflower Lane
Rossmay Drive                               and Marshrose Drive
Roudebush Way                               and Cross Lakes Court
Ruffian Drive                               and Frankel Lane
Rushmore Drive                              and Cheyenne Circle
Rushton Street                              and McCray Lane
Rushton Street                              and Woodglen Drive
South Burntwood Way                         and Helston Avenue
South Cherry Street                         and College Avenue
South Cherry Street                         and East Park Street
South Cherry Street                         and Roosevelt Street
South Union Street                          and Baldwin Court
South Union Street                          and College Avenue
South Union Street                          and Emerald Pines Lane
South Union Street                          and Jersey Street
South Union Street                          and Mill Street
South Union Street                          and Roosevelt Street
South Union Street                          and South Street
South Union Street                          and Southridge Lane
South Union Street/Westfield Boulevard      and Woodside Drive
Saddlehorn Drive                            and Saddlehorn Court
Saddlehorn Drive                            and Windmill Drive
Saddlehorn Drive/Bridlewood Drive           and Bridlewood Circle
Salimonia Lane/Wanatah Trail                and Clarks Hill Way
Sandy Cove Lane                             and Heartland Drive
Sandy Cove Lane                             and Reichart Drive
Sandy Cove Lane                             and Timber Bluff Road
Sandy Cove Lane                             and William Trace Boulevard
Sanibel Circle                              and Bradenton Court
Sanibel Circle                              and Captiva Way
Sanibel Circle                              and La Costa Way
Sanibel Circle                              and Periwinkle Court
Sanibel Circle                              and Sundial Drive
Sapp Court                                  and Sumrall Place
Sapphire Drive                              and Raymond Lane
Savannah Lane                               and Silver Lakes Drive
Sawtooth Oak Circle                         and Caden Court
Scher Drive                                 and Kohut Lane
Scofield Farms Boulevard                    and Hawkview Lane
Scofield Ridge Boulevard                    and Donelson Lane
Scout Lane                                  and Gristmill Meadows Drive
Scout Lane/Archer Nock Court                and Ranger Way
Seaforth Way                                and Bedwell Bay Road
Seaforth Way                                and Garrow Drive
Senator Way                                 and Fox Court
Senator Way/West Senator Way                and Abbedale Court
Setters Road                                and Alverdo Lane
Setters Road                                and Ayers Lane
Setters Road                                and Short Terrace
Setters Road                                and Wentz Drive
Shadow Lakes Drive East                     and Rosemill Drive
Shadow Lakes Drive North/Shadow Lakes Drive and Beacon Park Drive
East
Shadow Lakes Drive West                     and Rosemill Drive
Shady Lake Drive                            and Hawks Crest Way
Shady Lake Drive                            and Lake Winds Drive
Shady Nook Road                             and Andover Parkway
Shady Nook Road                             and East 186th Street
Shady Nook Road                             and Peabody Way
Shady Nook Road                             and Sanibel Circle
Shady Nook Road                             and Sheffield Park Way
Shady Nook Road                             and Tarpon Bay Drive
Shady Nook Road                             and Tausen Place
Sheffield Park Way                          and Free Spirit Way
Sheffield Park Way                          and Hawks Crest Way
Sheffield Park Way/Sheffield Park Court     and Redpointe Drive
Shelborne Road                              and West 151st Street
Shelby Street                               and SR 32
Shelby Street                               and West Tournament Trail
Sherlock Drive                              and Griswald Court
Shoreway East Drive                         and Sherry Court
Short Terrace                               and Elyse Lane
Silver Thorne Way                           and Copper Tree Way
Silver Thorne Way                           and Mae Circle
Silverheels Drive                           and Falcons Fire Drive
Silverheels Drive                           and Viking Meadows Drive
Six Points Road                             and Ehrlich Lane
Sleepy Hollow Drive                         and Debbie Court
Sleepy Hollow Drive                         and Sleepy Hollow Court
Smithfield Drive                            and Dormont Drive
Smithfield Drive                            and Lewiston Drive
Smithfield Drive                            and Pawtucket Drive
Smithfield Drive                            and Valdosta Place
Snowdon Drive                               and Blenheim Place
Snowdon Drive                               and Challenger Drive
Snowdon Drive                               and Cromwell Place
Somerville Drive                            and Mayfield Drive
Somerville Drive                            and Trescott Drive
Sonhatsett Drive                            and Amberwood Court
Sonhatsett Drive                            and Silver Lakes Drive
Sonhatsett Drive/White Willow Drive         and Lucas Drive
Sonnet Park Lane                            and Luster Lane
Southall Drive                              and Brigg Court
Spring Lake Drive                           and English Green
Spring Lake Drive                           and Fillmore Way
Spring Mill Road                            and Allandale Avenue
Spring Mill Road                            and Beechnut Drive
Spring Mill Road                            and Countryside Boulevard
Spring Mill Road                            and Merrimac Drive
Spring Mill Road                            and Redhill Road
Spring Mill Road                            and Richland Way
Spring Mill Road                            and Spring Lake Drive
Spring Mill Road                            and West Greyhound Pass
Spring Mill Road                            and West Spring Mill Pointe Road
Spring Mill Road                            and Zephyr Way
Springmeadow Lane                           and Meadowcreek Drive
Stargrass Drive/Stargrass Lane              and Woodsage Court
Stargrass Lane                              and Rockrose Court
Starview Drive                              and Cliff View Drive
Starview Drive                              and Riverbank Drive
Stayman Way                                 and Paula Walk
Stayman Way                                 and Ambrosia Trail
Steel Horse Drive                           and Clayborne Drive
Steel Horse Drive                           and Nickel Plate Drive
Stockbridge Drive                           and Athens Place
Stonnenger Street                           and Carmack Court/Laymman Place
Stonnenger Street                           and Dewey Drive
Stonnenger Street                           and Garwood Drive
Stratfield Way                              and Abbotsford Drive
Stroud Lane                                 and Kimberly Avenue
Stroud Lane                                 and Knottingly Way
Stroud Lane                                 and Maidstone Avenue
Stroud Lane                                 and Warrington Avenue
Sulky Way                                   and East Laredo Way North
Sullivan Lane                               and Mobley Drive
Sullivan Lane                               and Valcour Place
Sumrall Place                               and Elise Drive
Sun Park Drive                              and East Tournament Trail
Sunbrook Way                                and Sunbrook Court
Sundial Court/Sundial Drive                 and Beach Club Drive
Sundial Drive                               and Delray Court
Sunningdale Way/Birkdale Drive              and Birkdale Boulevard
Super Star Drive                            and Super Star Court
Sutton Terrace                              and Baisley Trail/Derringer Avenue
Sutton Terrace                              and Cline Street
Thomas Jefferson Street                     and Northwest Drive
Tilbury Way                                 and Hendon Court
Tilbury Way                                 and Lichfield Lane
Tilbury Way                                 and Swinton Way
Tilbury Way                                 and Wendover Avenue
Timber Bluff Road                           and Starview Drive
Timber Bluff Road                           and Sunbrook Way
Timber Bluff Road                           and Viewpoint Lane
Timberbrook Run                             and Wood Hollow Court
Titus Drive/West Fork Drive                 and Horsewood Drive
Tomlinson Road                              and Blackburn Road
Tomlinson Road                              and Bokeelia Bend
Tomlinson Road                              and East 196th Street
Tomlinson Road                              and East 199th Street
Tomlinson Road                              and Windsor Estates Court
Touralosa Drive                             and Aerion Court
Towne Road                                  and Collins Drive
Towne Road                                  and Kimblewick Boulevard
Towne Road                                  and Maple Creek Drive
Towne Road                                  and Northwind Court
Towne Road                                  and West 146th Street
Towne Road                                  and West 156th Street
Towne Road                                  and West 159th Street
Towne Road                                  and West 161st Street
Towne Road                                  and West 171st Street
Trestle Drive                               and Conductors Drive
Troy Lane                                   and Newberry Lane
Troy Lane                                   and Winslow Drive
Ushant Court/Ushant Street                  and Ridgefield Place
Valdosta Place                              and Bowie Drive
Valley View Drive                           and Valley Court
Ventura Drive                               and Burton Way
Vernon Place                                and East Quail Ridge Drive
Vernon Place                                and Grabill Drive
Viewpoint Lane                              and Crosswater Way
Viewpoint Lane                              and Riverbank Drive
Viewpoint Lane                              and Cliff View Drive
Viewpoint Lane                              and Hazy Falls Boulevard
Viking Commander Way                        and Capital Spending Road
Viking Commander Way                        and Sunshine Court
Viking Lair Road                            and Lair Court
Viking Lair Road                            and Silverheels Drive
Viking Lair Road                            and Viking Commander Way
Viking Meadows Drive                        and Ascot Farm Way
Viking Meadows Drive                        and Bright Beam Court
Viking Meadows Drive                        and Commander Court
Viking Meadows Drive                        and Falcons Fire Drive
Viking Meadows Drive                        and Viking Commander Way
Viking Meadows Drive                        and Viking Lair Road
Viking Meadows Drive                        and Holly Lane Farms Drive
Village Park North Drive                    and Village Park East Drive
Vintage Court North/Vintage Court South     and Sparkling Water Way
West 146th Street                           and Adios Pass
West 146th Street                           and Beacon Boulevard
West 146th Street                           and Halston Drive
West 146th Street                           and Harvest Drive
West 146th Street                           and Parkhurst Drive
West 146th Street                           and Sapphire Drive
West 146th Street                           and Shadow Lakes Drive East
West 146th Street                           and Shadow Lakes Drive West
West 146th Street                           and Warner Trail
West 151st Street                           and Fenchurch Drive
West 151st Street                           and Kingsway Street
West 151st Street                           and Larchwood Drive
West 151st Street                           and Ridgefield Place
West 156th Street                           and Allegro Drive
West 156th Street                           and Clearbrook Street
West 156th Street                           and Edenvale Drive
West 156th Street                           and Kingsway Street
West 156th Street                           and Scher Drive
West 156th Street                           and West Rail Drive
West 156th Street                           and Wilshire Boulevard
West 156th Street                           and Zephyr Way
West 159th Street                           and Rippling Creek Way
West 161st Street                           and Brigham Lane
West 161st Street                           and Bromley Way
West 161st Street                           and Nocturne Drive
West 161st Street                           and Spring Mill Depot Drive
West 166th Street                           and Eagletown Road
West 169th Street                           and Canberra Boulevard
West 169th Street                           and East Edenbridge Way
West 169th Street                           and South Burntwood Way
West 169th Street                           and West Edenbridge Way
West 171st Street                           and Burntwood Way
West 171st Street/West 169th Street         and West 169th Street
West 186th Street                           and Explanade Street
West 186th Street                           and Shelton Cove Way
West 186th Street                           and Weldon Way
West 186th Street/East 186th Street         and Kinsey Avenue
West 193rd Street                           and Rushton Street
West 193rd Street                           and Six Points Road
West 193rd Street                           and Sumrall Place
West Admiral Way South                      and Alsong Court
West Admiral Way South                      and Shower Court
West Columbine Lane                         and West May Apple Circle
West Evening Rose Way                       and River Birch Road
West Evening Rose Way/East Evening Rose Way and Stargrass Lane
West Fork Drive                             and Plowman Drive
West Fork Drive                             and Scofield Farms Boulevard
West Fork Drive                             and Scofield Ridge Boulevard
West Fork Drive/Titus Drive                 and Horsewood Drive
West Greyhound Pass                         and Derby Court
West Jefferson Street                       and Grant Street
West Main Street                            and Camilla Court
West Pine Ridge Drive                       and Agate Lane
West Quail Wood Lane                        and West Pine Ridge Drive
West Rail Drive                             and Conductors Drive
West Rail Drive                             and Locomotive Drive
West Rail Drive                             and Turntable Court
West Senator Way                            and Admiral Way North
West Spring Mill Pointe Drive/East Spring   and Meijer Drive
Mill Pointe Drive
West SR 32                                  and Centennial Road
West SR 32                                  and Commercial Street
West SR 32                                  and Eagletown Road
West SR 32                                  and Grant Street
West SR 32                                  and Gristmill Road
West SR 32                                  and Mule Barn Road
West SR 32                                  and Washington Street
West Tournament Trail                       and Spring Mill Road
Wanatah Trail                               and Brooksburg Drive
Wanatah Trail                               and Salimonia Lane
Wanatah Trail                               and Wanatah Circle
Warner Trail                                and Francis Court
Warner Trail                                and Hampton Road
Warner Trail                                and Jonathan Drive
Warner Trail                                and Merrimac Drive
Warner Trail                                and Shetland Court
Washington Street                           and West Jefferson Street
Waterleaf Drive                             and American Lotus Drive
Waterleaf Drive                             and Pollard Drive
Watertown Drive                             and Alameda Place
Wayne Way                                   and Painter Lane
Wellpark Drive                              and Woodford Drive
Wendover Avenue                             and Evesham Drive
Wendover Avenue                             and Farnham Drive
Wendover Avenue                             and Petersfield Lane
Wenover Avenue                              and Northam Drive
Westfield Boulevard                         and East 156th Street
Westfield Park Road                         and Kendall Court
Westfield Park Road/Wheeler Road            and Westfield Business Park Court
Westlea Drive                               and Creekwood Drive
Westlea Drive                               and Highwood Drive
Westlea Drive                               and Newby Court
Wetherington Drive                          and Abbotsford Drive
Wetherington Drive                          and Drummond Place
Wetherington Drive                          and Snowdon Drive
Wetherington Drive                          and Stratfield Way
Wheatfield Lane                             and Wheatfield Court
Whispering Oaks Drive                       and Heatherton Drive
White Willow Drive                          and Millwood Circle
White Willow Drive                          and Rollingwood Circle
Whitney Road                                and Williamson Lane
Wildflower Court/Wildflower Lane            and East Rowan Run
Wildflower Lane                             and East Bloomfield Lane
Wildflower Lane                             and East Wisteria Way
Wildrye Drive/East Evening Rose Way         and Blueflag Court
Willenhall Court/Willenhall Way             and Canley Drive
Williamson Lane                             and McKinley Court
Windmill Drive                              and Curry Lane
Woodford Drive                              and Beeblossom Drive
Woodford Drive                              and Fenchurch Drive
Woodford Drive                              and Granville Drive
Woodglen Drive                              and Rushton Street
Woodglen Drive                              and Rushton Street
Workington Way                              and Workington Circle
Workington Way/Bingham Drive                and Kingsbridge Boulevard
Worth Court                                 and Raymond Lane
Worth Court                                 and Victory Court
Yeoman Way                                  and Jayson Circle
Zenith Drive                                and Cabrillio Court
Zephyr Way                                  and Jet Stream Boulevard
 
(Prior Code, § 58-349) (Ord. 23-31, passed 10-23-2023; Ord. 24-11, passed 2-12-
2024; Ord 24-73, passed 12-23-2024)
SCHEDULE V. ONE-WAY STREETS.
Street Name Location of One-Way Area Flow of Traffic
Street Name                    Location of One-Way Area        Flow of Traffic
146th Street and Ditch Road Roundabout
146th Street West              Ditch Road                      North
146th Street East              Ditch Road                      South
Ditch Road North               146th Street                    East
Ditch Road South               146th Street                    West
146th Street and Little Eagle Creek Avenue Roundabout
146th Street West              Little Eagle Creek Avenue       North
146th Street East              Little Eagle Creek Avenue       South
Little Eagle Creek Avenue      146th Street                    East
North
Little Eagle Creek Avenue      146th Street                    West
South
Little Eagle Creek Avenue      Little Eagle Creek Avenue       North
Approach and Exit (NB)
Little Eagle Creek Avenue      Little Eagle Creek Avenue       South
Approach and Exit (SB)
146th Street Approach and Exit 146th Street                    East
(EB)
146th Street Approach and Exit 146th Street                    West
(WB)
146th Street and Shelborne Road Roundabout
146th Street West              Shelborne Road                  North
146th Street East              Shelborne Road                  South
Shelborne Road                 146th Street                    East
Shelborne Road                 146th Street                    West
146th Street Approach and Exit 146th Street                    East
(EB)
146th Street Approach and Exit 146th Street                    West
(WB)
Shelborne Road Approach and    Shelborne Road                  North
Exit (NB)
Shelborne Road Approach and    Shelborne Road                  South
Exit (SB)
151st Street and Carey Road Roundabout
151st Street West              Carey Road                      North
151st Street East              Carey Road                      South
Carey Road North               151st Street                    East
Carey Road South               151st Street                    West
East 151st Street              From Roundabout to 450 feet     East
                               east of Roundabout
East 151st Street              From 450 feet east of           West
                               Roundabout to Roundabout
151st Street and Cool Creek Park Road Roundabout
151st Street West              Cool Creek Park Road            North
151st Street East              Cool Creek Park Road            South
Cool Creek Park Road North     151st Street                    East
Cool Creek Park Road South     151st Street                    West
151st Street Approach and Exit 151st Street                    East
(EB)
151st Street Approach and Exit 151st Street                    West
(WB)
Cool Creek Park Road Approach  Cool Creek Park Road            North
and Exit (NB)
Cool Creek Park Road Approach  Cool Creek Park Road            South
and Exit (SB)
151st Street and Ditch Road Roundabout
Bridgeport Drive West          Ditch Road                      North
151st Street East              Ditch Road                      South
Ditch Road North               151st Street                    East
Ditch Road South               Bridgeport Drive                West
Ditch Road Approach and Exit   Ditch Road                      North
(NB)
Ditch Road Approach and Exit   Ditch Road                      South
(SB)
Bridgeport Drive Approach (WB) Bridgeport Drive/West 151st
and West 151st Street Exit     Street                          West
(WB)
West 151st Street Approach
(EB) and Bridgeport Drive Exit Bridgeport Drive/W 151st Street East
(EB)
151st Street and Market Center Drive Roundabout
151st Street West              Market Center Drive             North
151st Street East              Market Center Drive             South
Market Center Drive North      151st Street                    East
Market Center Drive South      151st Street                    West
Market Center Drive Approach   Market Center Drive             North
and Exit (NB)
Market Center Drive Approach   Market Center Drive             South
and Exit (SB)
151st Street and Westfield Boulevard Roundabout
151st Street West              Westfield Boulevard             North
151st Street East              151st Street                    East
Westfield Boulevard South      151st Street                    West
East 151st Street Approach and East 151st Street               East
Exit (EB)
East 151st Street Approach and East 151st Street               West
Exit (WB)
156th Street and Spring Mill Road Roundabout
156th Street West              Spring Mill Road                North
156th Street East              Spring Mill Road                South
Spring Mill Road North         156th Street                    East
Spring Mill Road South         156th Street                    West
156th Street Approach and Exit 156th Street                    East
(EB)
156th Street Approach and Exit 156th Street                    West
(WB)
Spring Mill Road Approach and  Spring Mill Road                North
Exit (NB)
Spring Mill Road Approach and  Spring Mill Road                South
Exit (SB)
161st Street and Carey Road Roundabout
161st Street West              Carey Road                      North
161st Street East              Carey Road                      South
Carey Road North               161st Street                    East
Carey Road South               161st Street                    West
East 161st Street Approach and 161st Street                    East
Exit (EB)
East 161st Street Approach and 161st Street                    West
Exit (WB)
Carey Road Approach and Exit   Carey Road                      North
(NB)
Carey Road Approach and Exit   Carey Road                      South
(SB)
161st Street and Farr Hills Drive Roundabout
161st Street West              Farr Hills Drive                North
161st Street East              Farr Hills Drive                South
Farr Hills Drive North         161st Street                    East
Farr Hills Drive South         161st Street                    West
161st Street and Farr Hills Drive/Chapman Drive Roundabout
161st Street South             Chapman Drive                   South
Chapman Drive East             Farr Hills Drive                East
Farr Hills Drive West          161st Street                    North
161st Street and Oak Road Roundabout
161st Street West              Oak Road                        North
161st Street East              Oak Road                        South
Oak Road North                 161st Street                    East
Oak Road South                 161st Street                    West
East 161st Street Approach and 161st Street                    East
Exit (EB)
East 161st Street Approach and 161st Street                    West
Exit (WB)
Oak Road Approach and Exit     Oak Road                        North
(NB)
Oak Road Approach and Exit     Oak Road                        South
(SB)
161st Street and Oak Ridge Road Roundabout
161st Street West              Oak Ridge Road                  North
161st Street East              Oak Ridge Road                  South
Oak Ridge Road North           161st Street                    East
Oak Ridge Road South           161st Street                    West
161st Street and U.S. 31 North Exit Ramp Roundabout
161st Street                   U.S. 31 North Exit Ramp         North
U.S. 31 North Exit Ramp        161st Street                    East
161st Street and U.S. 31 South Exit Ramp Roundabout
161st Street                   U.S. 31 South Exit Ramp         South
U.S. 31 South Exit Ramp        161st Street                    West
161st Street and Westfield Boulevard Roundabout
161st Street West              Westfield Boulevard             North
161st Street East              Westfield Boulevard             South
Westfield Boulevard North      161st Street                    East
Westfield Boulevard South      161st Street                    West
169th Street and Spring Mill Road Roundabout
169th Street West              Spring Mill Road                North
169th Street East              Spring Mill Road                South
Spring Mill Road North         169th Street                    East
Spring Mill Road South         169th Street                    West
171st Street and Carey Road Roundabout
Wetherington Drive West        Carey Road                      North
171st Street East              Carey Road                      South
Carey Road North               Wetherington Drive              East
Carey Road South               171st Street                    West
171st Street and Eagletown Road Roundabout
171st Street West              Eagletown Road                  North
171st Street East              Eagletown Road                  South
Eagletown Road North           171st Street                    East
Eagletown Road South           171st Street                    West
East 171st Street Approach and 171st Street                    East
Exit (EB)
East 171st Street Approach and 171st Street                    West
Exit (WB)
Eagletown Road Approach and    Eagletown Road                  North
Exit (NB)
Eagletown Road Approach and    Eagletown Road                  South
Exit (SB)
186th Street and Grand Park Boulevard Roundabout
186th Street West              Grand Park Boulevard            North
186th Street East              Grand Park Boulevard            South
Grand Park Boulevard North     186th Street                    East
Grand Park Boulevard South     186th Street                    West
186th Street and Spring Mill Road Roundabout
186th Street West              Spring Mill Road                North
186th Street East              Spring Mill Road                South
Spring Mill Road North         186th Street                    East
Spring Mill Road South         186th Street                    West
Spring Mill Road               350 feet south of Roundabout to North
                               Roundabout
Spring Mill Road               Roundabout to 700 feet north of North
                               Roundabout
Spring Mill Road               700 feet north of Roundabout to South
                               Roundabout
Spring Mill Road               Roundabout to 350 feet south of South
                               Roundabout
186th Street                   400 feet west of Roundabout to  East
                               Roundabout
186th Street                   Roundabout to 400 feet east of  West
                               Roundabout
191st Street and Chadd Hittle Drive Roundabout
191st Street West              Chad Hittle Drive               North
191st Street East              Chad Hittle Drive               South
Chad Hittle Drive North        191st Street                    East
Chad Hittle Drive South        191st Street                    West
191st Street Approach and Exit 191st Street                    East
(EB)
191st Street Approach and Exit 191st Street                    West
(WB)
Chad Hittle Drive Approach and Chad Hittle Drive               North
Exit (NB)
Chad Hittle Drive Approach and Chad Hittle Drive               South
Exit (SB)
191st Street and East Street Roundabout
191st Street West              East Street                     North
191st Street East              East Street                     South
East Street North              191st Street                    East
East Street South              191st Street                    West
191st Street Approach and Exit 191st Street                    East
(EB)
191st Street Approach and Exit 191st Street                    West
(WB)
East Street Approach and Exit  East Street                     North
(NB)
East Street Approach and Exit  East Street                     South
(SB)
191st Street and Tomlinson Road Roundabout
191st Street West              Tomlinson Road                  North
191st Street East              Tomlinson Road                  South
Tomlinson Road North           191st Street                    East
Tomlinson Road South           191st Street                    West
191st Street Approach and Exit 191st Street                    East
(EB)
191st Street Approach and Exit 191st Street                    West
(WB)
Tomlinson Road Approach and    Tomlinson Road                  North
Exit (NB)
Tomlinson Road Approach and    Tomlinson Road                  South
Exit (SB)
191st Street and U.S. 31 North Exit Ramp Roundabout
191st Street West              U.S. 31 North Exit Ramp         North
U.S. 31 North Exit Ramp North  191st Street                    East
191st Street and U.S. 31S Exit Ramp Roundabout
191st Street East              U.S. 31 South Exit Ramp         South
U.S. 31 South Exit Ramp South  191st Street                    West
196th Street and Chad Hittle Drive Roundabout
196th Street West              Chad Hittle Drive               North
196th Street East              Chad Hittle Drive               South
Chad Hittle Drive North        196th Street                    East
Chad Hittle Drive South        196th Street                    West
196th Street Approach and Exit 196th Street                    East
(EB)
196th Street Approach and Exit 196th Street                    West
(WB)
Chad Hittle Drive Approach and Chad Hittle Drive               North
Exit (NB)
Chad Hittle Drive Approach and Chad Hittle Drive               South
Exit (SB)
Bannerbrook Drive and Willenhall Way Roundabout
Bannerbrook Drive West         Willenhall Way                  North
Bannerbrook Drive East         Allesley Way                    South
Allesley Way North             Bannerbrook Drive               East
Willenhall Way South           Bannerbrook Drive               West
Burgess Hill Pass and Lynton Way Roundabout
Burgess Hill Pass West         Lynton Way                      North
Burgess Hill Pass East         Parking Lot                     South
Parking Lot North              Burgess Hill Pass               East
Lynton Way South               Burgess Hill Pass               West
Burntwood Way and Kingsbridge Boulevard Roundabout
Burntwood Way East             Kingsbridge Boulevard           South
Kingsbridge Boulevard          Burntwood Way                   East
Burntwood Way West             Burntwood Way                   West
Declaration Drive and Bridgeport Drive Roundabout
Bridgeport Drive West          Declaration Drive               North
Bridgeport Drive East          Declaration Drive               South
Declaration Drive North        Bridgeport Drive                East
Declaration Drive South        Bridgeport Drive                West
Declaration Drive and Somerville Drive Roundabout
Somerville Drive West          Declaration Drive               North
Somerville Drive East          Somerville Drive                East
Declaration Drive South        Somerville Drive                West
Ditch Road and Casey Road Roundabout
Hamilton Way West              Casey Road                      North
Ditch Road East                Casey Road                      East
Casey Road North               Hamilton Way                    Northeast
Casey Road South               Hamilton Way                    Southwest
Hamilton Way Exit (EB)         Hamilton Way                    East
Hamilton Way Approach (WB)     Hamilton Way                    West
Carey Road Approach and Exit   Carey Road                      North
(NB)
Carey Road Approach and Exit   Carey Road                      South
(SB)
Ditch Road and Somerville Drive Roundabout
Somerville Drive West          Ditch Road                      North
Somerville Drive East          Ditch Road                      South
Ditch Road North               Somerville Drive                East
Ditch Road South               Somerville Drive                West
Ditch Road Approach and Exit   Ditch Road                      North
(NB)
Ditch Road Approach and Exit   Ditch Road                      South
(SB)
John Dippel Boulevard and Wheeler Road Roundabout
John Dippel Boulevard West     Wheeler Road                    North
John Dippel Boulevard East     Wheeler Road                    South
Wheeler Road North             John Dippel Boulevard           East
Wheeler Road South             John Dippel Boulevard           West
Wheeler Road Approach (NB)     Wheeler Road                    North
Wheeler Road Exit (SB)         Wheeler Road                    South
John Dippel Boulevard Approach John Dippel Boulevard           East
and Exit (EB)
John Dippel Boulevard Approach John Dippel Boulevard           West
and Exit (WB)
Market Center Drive and Guerin Way Roundabout
Guerin Way West                Market Center Drive             North
Market Center Drive South      Market Center Drive             South
Market Center Drive North      Guerin Way                      East
New Haven Drive and Stockbridge Drive/Piedmont Drive Roundabout
Piedmont Drive                 New Haven Drive                 North
Stockbridge Drive              New Haven Drive                 South
New Haven Drive North          Piedmont Drive                  East
New Haven Drive South          Stockbridge Drive               West
Oak Manor Drive and Durmast Oak Drive Roundabout
Oak Manor Drive West           Durmast Oak Drive               North
Oak Manor Drive East           Durmast Oak Drive               South
Durmast Oak Drive North        Oak Manor Drive                 East
Durmast Oak Drive South        Oak Manor Drive                 West
Parkhurst Drive and Palomar Drive/Bixby Drive Roundabout
Palomar Drive West             Bixby Drive                     North
Palomar Drive East             Parkhurst Drive                 South
Parkhurst Drive North          Palomar Drive                   East
Bixby Drive South              Palomar Drive                   West
Pawtucket Drive and Bowie Drive Roundabout
Pawtucket Drive West           Bowie Drive                     North
Pawtucket Drive East           Bowie Drive                     South
Bowie Drive North              Pawtucket Drive                 East
Bowie Drive South              Pawtucket Drive                 West
Pete Dye Boulevard and Long Cove View Boulevard Roundabout
Pete Dye Boulevard East        Long Cove View Boulevard        East/Southeas t
Long Cove View Boulevard North Long Cove View Boulevard        North/Northe ast
Long Cove View Boulevard South Pete Dye Boulevard              West
Piedmont Drive and Alexandria Drive Roundabout
Piedmont Drive West            Alexandria Drive                North
Piedmont Drive East            Alexandria Drive                South
Alexandria Drive North         Piedmont Drive                  East
Alexandria Drive South         Piedmont Drive                  West
Shumard Oak Drive and Sparkling Water Way and River Crest Court Roundabout
River Crest Court North        Shumard Oak Drive               North
Sparkling Water Way East       River Crest Court               Southeast
Shumard Oak Drive Northeast    Sparkling Water Way             Southwest
Slippery Rock Court and Brookhollow Drive/Spillwater Way Roundabout
Spillwater Way West            Brookhollow Drive               North
Slippery Rock Court East       Brookhollow Drive               South
Brookhollow Drive North        Spillwater Way                  East
Brookhollow Drive South        Slippery Rock Court             West
Spring Winds Drive and Grassy Meadow Court
Spring Winds Drive East        Spring Winds Drive              Southeast
Grassy Meadow Court Northwest  Spring Winds Drive              North
Spring Winds Drive South       Spring Winds Drive              West
State Road 32 and Poplar Street/Shamrock Boulevard Roundabout
State Road 32 West             Shamrock Boulevard              North
State Road 32 East             Poplar Street                   South
Poplar Street North            State Road 32                   East
Shamrock Boulevard South       State Road 32                   West
Westfield Boulevard Approach   Westfield Boulevard/Shamrock
(NB) and Shamrock Boulevard    Boulevard                       North
Exit (NB)
Shamrock Boulevard Approach    Westfield Boulevard/Shamrock
(SB) and Westfield Boulevard   Boulevard                       South
Exit (SB)
West Main Street Approach and  West Main Street (State Road    East
Exit (EB)                      32)
West Main Street Approach Exit West Main Street (State Road    West
(WB)                           32)
Wilshire Boulevard and Hush Hickory Bend/Maybell Lane Roundabout
Maybell Lane East              Wilshire Boulevard              South
Wilshire Boulevard North       Hush Hickory Bend               East
Hush Hickory Bend West         Maybell Lane                    West
City-Owned One-Way Streets
American Lotus Drive           From Waterleaf Drive to         North
                               Avondale Drive
American Lotus Drive           From Avondale Drive to          South
                               Waterleaf Drive
Brookhollow Drive              From East 161st Street to       North
                               Spillwater Way
Brookhollow Drive              From Slippery Rock Court to     South
                               East 161st Street
Ditch Road                     From State Road 32 to Casey     North
                               Road
Ditch Road                     From Casey Road to State Road   South
                               32
East 151st Street              From Setters Road to Gray Road  East
East 151st Street              From Gray Road to Setters Road  West
East 186th Street              From Kinsey Avenue to Wheeler   East
                               Road
East 186th Street              From Wheeler Road to Kinsey     West
                               Avenue
East 191st Street              From U.S. 31 NB Entrance to     West
                               U.S. 31 SB Exit
East 191st Street              From U.S. 31 SB Entrance to     East
                               U.S. 31 NB Entrance
East Street                    From East 196th Street to       North
                               Grassy Branch Road
East Street                    From Grassy Branch Road to East South
                               196th Street
Kampen Drive                   From Kampen Circle to Mooring   East
                               Circle West
Kampen Drive                   From Mooring Circle West to     West
                               Kampen Circle
Kingsbridge Boulevard          From Bingham Drive to Burntwood North
                               Way
Kingsbridge Boulevard          From Burntwood Way to           South
                               Workington Way
Liberty Boulevard              From Pawtucket Drive to Spring  East
                               Mill Road
Liberty Boulevard              From Spring Mill Road to        West
                               Pawtucket Drive
Long Cove View                 From East 151st Street to Long  North
                               Cove Boulevard
Long Cove View                 From Pete Dye Boulevard to East South
                               151st Street
Park Street                    From Westfield Boulevard to     East
                               Mill Street
Parkhurst Drive                From Palomar Drive to West      North
                               146th Street
Parkhurst Drive                From West 146th Street to       South
                               Palomar Drive
Pawtucket Drive                From Ditch Road to Smithfield   East
                               Drive
Pawtucket Drive                From Smithfield Drive to Ditch  West
                               Road
Somerville Drive               From South Waterleaf Drive to   East
                               Trescott Drive
Somerville Drive               From Trescott Drive to South    West
                               Waterleaf Drive
West 156th Street              From Larchwood Drive to Ditch   East
                               Road
West 156th Street              From Ditch Road to Larchwood    West
                               Drive
West 186th Street              From Spring Mill Road to Kinsey East
                               Avenue
West 186th Street              From Kinsey Avenue to Spring    West
                               Mill Road
Westfield Boulevard            From David Brown Drive to Park  North
                               Street
Westfield Boulevard            From Park Street to David Brown South
                               Drive
Westfield Boulevard            From 161st Street to South      North
                               Union Street
Westfield Boulevard            From South Union Street to      South
                               161st Street
Westfield Boulevard            From East 151st Street to U.S.  North
                               31
Westfield Boulevard            From U.S. 31 to East 151st      South
                               Street
Wheeler Road                   John Dippel Boulevard to 400    Northeast
                               feet south of East 186th Street
Wheeler Road                   400 feet south of East 186th    Southwest
                               Street to John Dippel Boulevard
 
(Prior Code, § 58-350) (Ord. 23-31, passed 10-23-2023; Ord. 24-11, passed 2-12-
2024; Ord. 24-73, passed 12-23-2024)
SCHEDULE VI. ONE-WAY ALLEYS.
 
Alley Name     Location of One-Way Area            Flow of Traffic
Elm Alley      Penn Street to Vine Alley           South
Mulberry Alley SR 32 to Penn Street                North
Oak Alley      North Union Street to Cherry Street East
Vine Alley     Cherry Street to South Union Street West
 
(Prior Code, § 58-350.1) (Ord. 23-31, passed 10-23-2023; Ord. 24-11, passed 2-
12-2024)
SCHEDULE VII. AUTOMATIC SIGNALS.
Street Name  Location of Signal Maintained By
Street Name                      Location of Signal             Maintained By
146th Street                  at Carey Road                     HCHD
146th Street                  at Oak Road (Cool Creek Commons)  HCHD
146th Street                  at Gray Road                      HCHD
146th Street                  at Greyhound Pass                 HCHD
146th Street                  at Oak Ridge Road                 HCHD
146th Street                  at Spring Mill Road               HCHD
146th Street                  at Rohrer Road/Monon Trail        HCHD
146th Street                  at U.S. 31 North Bound Exit Ramp  HCHD
146th Street                  at U.S. 31 South Bound Exit Ramp  HCHD
146th Street                  at Western Way                    HCHD
147th Street                  at Greyhound Pass                 LOCAL
151st Street                  at Thatcher Lane                  LOCAL
161st Street                  at Spring Mill Road               LOCAL
196th Street                  at East Street                    LOCAL
East Street                   at State Road 38                  INDOT
Greyhound Pass                at Cool Creek Park Road           LOCAL
Greyhound Pass                at Greyhound Court                LOCAL
Greyhound Pass                at Marsh Grocery Store (former)   LOCAL
Greyhound Pass                at Western Way                    LOCAL
State Road 32                 at Austrian Pines Way             INDOT
State Road 32                 at Dartown Road                   INDOT
State Road 32                 at Ditch Road                     INDOT
State Road 32                 at Grand Park Boulevard/Oak Ridge INDOT
                                 Road
State Road 32                 at Grassy Branch Road/Carey Road  INDOT
State Road 32                 at Gray Road/Moontown Road        INDOT
State Road 32                 at Gunther Boulevard              INDOT
State Road 32                 at Spring Mill Road               INDOT
State Road 32                 at Union Street                   INDOT
State Road 32                 at Wheeler Road                   INDOT
U.S. 31                       at State Road 32                  INDOT
U.S. 31 North Bound Exit Ramp at 151st Street                   INDOT
U.S. 31 South Bound Exit Ramp at 151st Street                   INDOT
Wheeler Road                  at East Tournament Trail          LOCAL
 
(Prior Code, § 58-351) (Ord. 23-31, passed 10-23-2023; Ord. 24-11, passed 2-12-
2024; Ord. 24-73, passed 12-23-2024)
SCHEDULE VIII. YIELD SIGNS.
Bannerbrook Drive     and Willenhall Way/Allesley Way 4-Way Yield at Roundabout
Burgess Hill Pass     and Lynton Way                  4-Way Yield at Roundabout
Burntwood Way         and Kingsbridge Boulevard       3-Way Yield at Roundabout
Carey Road            and East 171st Street/          4-Way Yield at Roundabout
                          Wetherington Drive
Declaration Drive     and Bridgeport Drive            4-Way Yield at Roundabout
Ditch Road            and Bridgeport Drive/West 151st 4-Way Yield at Roundabout
                          Street
Ditch Road            and Casey Road/Hamilton Way     4-Way Yield at Roundabout
Ditch Road            and Somerville Drive            4-Way Yield at Roundabout
East 151st Street     and Carey Road                  4-Way Yield at Roundabout
East 151st Street     and Cool Creek Park Road        4-Way Yield at Roundabout
East 151st Street     and Market Center Drive         4-Way Yield at Roundabout
East 151st Street     and Westfield Boulevard         3-Way Yield at Roundabout
East 161st Street     and Carey Road                  4-Way Yield at Roundabout
East 161st Street     and Farr Hills Drive/Chapman    4-Way Yield at Roundabout
                          Drive
East 161st Street     and Farr Hills Drive/Chapman    2-Way Yield at Roundabout
                          Drive
East 161st Street     and Oak Ridge Road              4-Way Yield at Roundabout
East 161st Street     and Oak Road                    4-Way Yield at Roundabout
East 161st Street     and U.S. 31 North Exit Ramp     2-Way Yield at Roundabout
East 161st Street     and U.S. 31 South Exit Ramp     2-Way Yield at Roundabout
East 161st Street     and Westfield Boulevard         4-Way Yield at Roundabout
West 171st Street     and Eagletown Road              4-Way Yield at Roundabout
East 186th Street     and East Grand Park Boulevard   4-Way Yield at Roundabout
East 191st Street     and Chad Hittle Drive           4-Way Yield at Roundabout
East 191st Street     and East Street                 4-Way Yield at Roundabout
East 191st Street     and Tomlinson Road              4-Way Yield at Roundabout
East 191st Street     and U.S. 31 North Exit Ramp     2-Way Yield at Roundabout
East 191st Street     and U.S. 31 South Exit Ramp     2-Way Yield at Roundabout
West 196th Street     and Chad Hittle Drive           4-Way Yield at Roundabout
John Dippel Boulevard and Wheeler Road                4-Way Yield at Roundabout
Market Center Drive   and Guerin Way                  3-Way Yield at Roundabout
New Haven Drive       and Piedmont Drive/Stockbridge  4-Way Yield at Roundabout
                          Drive
Oak Manor Drive       and Durmast Oak Drive           4-Way Yield at Roundabout
Parkhurst Drive       and Palomar Drive/Bixby Drive   4-Way Yield at Roundabout
Pawtucket Drive       and Bowie Drive                 4-Way Yield at Roundabout
Pete Dye Boulevard    and Long Cove Boulevard         3-Way Yield at Roundabout
Piedmont Drive        and Alexandria Drive            4-Way Yield at Roundabout
Shumard Oak Drive     and Sparkling Water Way/River   3-Way Yield at Roundabout
                          Crest Court
Slippery Rock Court   and Brookhollow Drive/          4-Way Yield at Roundabout
                          Spillwater Way
Somerville Drive      and Declaration Drive           3-Way Yield at Roundabout
Spring Meadow Court   and Spring Winds Drive          3-Way Yield at Roundabout
State Road 32         and Poplar Street/Shamrock      4-Way Yield at Roundabout
                          Boulevard
West 146th Street     and Ditch Road                  4-Way Yield at Roundabout
West 146th Street     and Little Eagle Creek Avenue   4-Way Yield at Roundabout
West 146th Street     and Towne Road                  4-Way Yield at Roundabout
West 146th Street     and Shelborne Road              4-Way Yield at Roundabout
West 156th Street     and Spring Mill Road            4-Way Yield at Roundabout
West 169th Street     and Spring Mill Road            4-Way Yield at Roundabout
West 186th Street     and Spring Mill Road            4-Way Yield at Roundabout
Wilshire Boulevard    and Maybell Lane/Hush Hickory   3-Way Yield at Roundabout
                          Bend
 
(Prior Code, § 58-352) (Ord. 23-31, passed 10-23-2023; Ord. 24-11, passed 2-12-
2024; Ord. 24-73, passed 12-23-2024)
SCHEDULE IX. CITY STREET OWNERSHIP AND SPEED LIMITS.
City-Owned Street Name Speed (mph) Location
City-Owned Street Name          Speed (mph) Location
Abaccus Lane                    20           
Abbedale Court                  25           
Abbotsford Drive                25           
Abigail Circle                  20           
Abigail Drive                   20           
Ackerson Boulevard              20           
Adagio Way                      20           
Addison Court                   20           
Adelaide Street                 20           
Adena Lane                      20           
Adios Court                     25           
Adios Pass                      25           
Adlo Lane                       20           
Admiral Way North               25           
Aerion Court                    20           
Agate Lane                      20           
Alameda Place                   20           
Alexandria Court                20           
Alexandria Drive                20           
Allandale Avenue                20           
Allegro Drive                   20           
Allen Court                     20           
Allesley Way                    20           
Allure Drive                    20           
Alpha Drive                     20           
Alsong Court                    25           
Alverdo Lane                    20           
Amber Light Drive               20           
Amberleaf Trail                 20           
Amberwood Court                 20           
Ambia Circle                    20           
Ambrosia Trail                  20           
American Lotus Drive            20           
Amesbury Place                  25           
Amkey Court                     25           
Amkey Way                       25           
Andover Parkway                 20           
Andry Court                     20           
Annabel Court                   20           
Annapolis Drive                 20           
Apollo Parkway                  25           
Arbor Creek Drive               20           
Archer Nock Court               20           
Aria Way                        20           
Arkansas Court                  20           
Arkansas Lane                   20           
Ascot Farm Way                  20           
Ascot Hills Drive North         20           
Ascot Hills Drive South         25           
Ashfield Drive                  20           
Astoria Avenue                  20           
Athens Place                    20           
Atwater Avenue                  20           
Austrian Court                  20           
Austrian Pine Way               20          Pine Ridge Drive to East 175th
                                            Street
Austrian Pine Way               30          East 175th Street to SR 32
Avebury Circle                  20           
Avebury Lane                    20           
Avondale Drive                  20           
Axford Bay Drive                20           
Ayers Lane                      20           
Azalea Court                    20           
Bainbridge Court                20           
Baird Way                       20           
Baisley Trail                   20           
Bald Tree Drive                 20           
Baldwin Court                   15           
Balfe Street                    20           
Bali Hai Court                  25           
Ballad Way                      20           
Baltic Pass                     20           
Bannerbrook Drive               20           
Barbaro Drive                   20           
Barley Circle                   25           
Bastian Court                   25           
Beach Club Drive                20           
Beacon Boulevard                20           
Beacon Court                    20           
Beacon Park Drive               20           
Beacon Way                      20           
Beck Way                        20           
Bedwell Bay Road                20           
Beeblossom Drive                20           
Beechnut Drive                  25           
Beechwood Drive                 20           
Belle Crest Way                 20           
Belle Forch Court               25           
Belterra Place                  20           
Belvedere Place                 20           
Bender Way                      20           
Berwyn Lane                     20           
Bethesda Circle                 20           
Billiter Court                  15           
Bingham Drive                   20           
Birch Street                    20           
Birchfield Drive                20           
Birdseye Drive                  20           
Birdsong Drive                  20           
Birdview Court                  20           
Birkdale Boulevard              20           
Birkdale Drive                  20           
Bixby Drive                     20           
Blackberry Court                25           
Blackburn Road                  20           
Blackwolf Run Drive             20           
Blenheim Place                  20           
Bloomfield Court                25           
Blueflag Court                  25           
Boca Grande Court               20           
Bokeelia Bend                   20           
Bolton Circle                   20           
Boothbay Court                  20           
Bowie Drive                     20           
Boxcar Court                    20           
Boyd Place                      20           
Bradenton Court                 20           
Brasseur Lane                   20           
Brees Drive                     20           
Briarpatch Circle               20           
Bridgeport Drive                20           
Bridgewater Club Boulevard      25           
Bridlewood Circle               20           
Bridlewood Drive                20           
Bridlewood Lane                 20           
Brigg Court                     25           
Brigham Lane                    20           
Bright Beam Court               20           
Brindle Street                  20           
Broken Arrow Drive              20           
Bromley Way                     25           
Brookhollow Drive               25           
Brooksburg Drive                20           
Brownspring Drive               20           
Buchanan Lane                   20           
Buena Vista Drive               20           
Buffalo Circle                  20           
Bulgar Lane                     20           
Burgess Hill Pass               25          Redhill Road to Lynton Way
Burgess Hill Pass               20          Lynton Way through Derby Ridge
                                            Subdivision
Burket Court                    20           
Burket Drive                    20           
Burntwood Way                   25          West 171st Street to Kingsbridge
                                            Boulevard
Burntwood Way                   20          Kingsbridge Boulevard to
                                            Petersfield Lane
Burton Way                      20           
Buxton Court                    20           
Buxton Drive                    20           
Byrding Court                   20           
Byrding Drive                   20           
Byrne Street                    20           
Caboose Court                   20           
Cabrillio Court                 20           
Caden Court                     20           
Caitlin Way                     20           
Camilla Court                   20           
Canberra Boulevard              20           
Canley Drive                    20           
Cantata Lane                    20           
Canticle Way                    20           
Capital Spending Road           20           
Captiva Way                     20           
Carey Glen Court                20           
Carey Road                      40           
Carmack Court                   20           
Carousel Lane                   20           
Carter Court                    20           
Carthage Circle                 20           
Casey Road                      45           
Catherine Drive                 20           
Catkins Court                   20           
Cavallina Lane                  20           
Cedar Grove Landing             20           
Cedarbrook Drive                20           
Centennial Road                 45           
Chad Hittle Court               20           
Chad Hittle Drive               20           
Chalet Circle                   20           
Challenger Drive                20           
Chamberlain Drive               25           
Champion Circle                 15           
Chancellors Court               20           
Chancellors Ridge Way           20           
Channelburg Boulevard           20           
Chanson Lane                    20           
Chatham Bend Drive              20           
Chatham Brook Drive             20           
Chatham Commons Boulevard       20           
Chatham Green Court             20           
Chatham Green Drive             20           
Chatham Hills Boulevard         20           
Cheltenham Drive                20           
Cherrywood Court                20           
Cheyenne Circle                 20           
Chick Evans Way                 20           
Citation Court                  25           
Citation Road                   25           
Clairet Drive                   20           
Clarks Hill Way                 20           
Clayborne Drive                 20           
Clear Lake Court                20           
Clearbrook Street               20           
Cliff View Drive                20           
Cline Street                    20           
Cloverdon Drive                 20           
Colfax Lane                     20           
College Avenue                  20           
Collins Drive                   20           
Commander Court                 20           
Commerce Drive                  20           
Commerce Park Drive             20           
Commercial Street               20           
Conductors Drive                20           
Connolly Drive                  20           
Cool Creek Circle               20           
Cool Creek Park Road            30           
Copper Creek Court              20           
Copper Hill Court               20           
Copper Tree Way                 20           
Corby Court                     25           
Cordial Court                   20           
Cork Court                      20           
Cornflower Court                25           
Corral Court                    25           
Corsican Circle                 20           
Cortland Court                  25           
Cortland Lane                   25           
Countfleet Court                25           
Country Place                   20           
Countryside Boulevard           30           
Cowie Lane                      20           
Cowley Drive                    20           
Cox Avenue                      35           
Creeks Bend Court               20           
Creeks Crossing Court           20           
Creeks Crossing Drive           20           
Creeks Edge Court               20           
Creekwood Drive                 20           
Crest Point Drive               20           
Creston Court                   25           
Crispin Lane                    20           
Cristin Circle                  25           
Cristin Way                     20           
Crocus Court                    20           
Cromwell Place                  20           
Cross Creek Circle              20           
Cross Lakes Court               20           
Crosswater Way                  20           
Curry Lane                      20           
Cyclamen Chase                  25           
Cynthia Court                   25           
Cyprian Circle                  20           
Dan Patch Court                 25           
Dan Patch Lane                  20           
Dandborn Drive                  20           
Dandborn Green                  20           
Daniel Court                    20           
Dartown Road                    30           
David Brown Drive               35           
Davis Drive                     20           
Dawnhaven Drive                 20           
Daylily Court                   20           
Dean Road                       20           
Debbie Court                    20           
Declaration Drive               20           
Deer Walk Trace                 20           
Deerwood Drive                  20           
Del Mar Way                     20           
Delray Court                    20           
Denton Court                    25           
Derby Court                     25           
Derby Ridge Court               20           
Derringer Avenue                20           
Desert Orchid Lane              20           
Desoto Boulevard                20           
Dewey Drive                     20           
Diamente Drive                  20           
Ditch Road                      45           
Donelson Court                  20           
Donelson Lane                   20           
Dormont Drive                   20           
Downstream Drive                20           
Doyle Court                     20           
Drexler Drive                   20           
Drummond Place                  20           
Dunedin Court                   20           
Dupont Court                    20           
Dupont Lane                     20           
Durmast Oak Drive               20           
Dursley Court                   25           
Dylan Way                       20           
East 147th Street               30           
East 151st Street               30          Carey Road to East Greyhound Pass
East 151st Street               40          Gray Road to Carey Road
East 156th Street               40          Westfield Boulevard to Oak Ridge
                                            Road
East 156th Street               45          Oak Ridge Road to West Evening Rose
                                            Way
East 161st Street               35          Gray Road to Oak Ridge Road
East 161st Street               40          Oak Ridge Road to Spring Mill Road
East 169th Street               35          Dean Road to Spring Mill Road
East 169th Street               40          Gray Road to Carey Road
East 171st Street               30           
East 175th Street               30           
East 181st Street               30           
East 186th Street               35          Wheeler Road to Corporation Limits
East 186th Street               40          Shady Nook Road to Moontown Road
East 191st Street               35          Horton Road to East Street
East 191st Street               50          Grassy Branch Road to Moontown Road
East 196th Street               30          Tomlinson Road to East Street
East 196th Street               50          East Street to Moontown Road
East 199th Street               35          Monon Trail to Corporation Limits
                                            to Tomlinson Road
East 202nd Street               45           
East 203rd Street               45          202nd Street to Grassy Branch Road
East 203rd Street               25          Tomlinson Road to Corporation
                                            Limits
East 206th Street               35           
East Admiral Way South          25           
East Blackwolf Run Drive        20           
East Bloomfield Lane            25           
East Clear Lake Lane            20           
East Columbine Lane             25           
East Evening Rose Way           25           
East Greyhound Pass             25          West Greyhound Pass to Monon Trail
East Greyhound Pass             30          Monon Trail to East 146th Street
East Hoover Street              30           
East Laredo Way North           25           
East Laredo Way South           25           
East Park Street                20           
East Pine Ridge Drive           20           
East Quail Ridge Drive          20           
East Quail Wood Lane            20           
East Rowan Run                  25           
East Senator Way                25           
East South Street               30           
East Spring Mill Pointe Drive   30           
East Tournament Trail           25           
East Wisteria Way               25           
Eagletown Road                  25          SR 32 North to Bridge
Eagletown Road                  45          North from Bridge to Corporation
                                            Limits
Eagletown Road                  45          166th Street to SR 32
Eaglewood Court                 20           
Earl Park Court                 20           
Earl Park Way                   20           
East Street                     30          SR 32 to Hoover Street
East Street                     35          Hoover Street to 191st Street
Eclipse Road                    20           
Edenvale Drive                  20           
Edinbrook Court                 20           
Edinbrook Lane                  20           
Edwick Drive                    20           
Ehrlich Lane                    20           
Eldred Court                    20           
Elicia Court                    20           
Elijah Drive                    20           
Elise Drive                     20           
Elkhorn Court                   20           
Elkhorn Drive                   20           
Elkhorn Way                     20           
Elnora Lane                     20           
Elyse Lane                      20           
Emerald Court                   20           
Emerald Green Circle            20           
Emerald Pines Lane              20           
Emma Circle                     25           
English Green                   20           
Enterprise Drive                20           
Erica Lane                      20           
Esher Court                     25           
Ethan Allen Lane                20           
Etna Drive                      20           
Etna Green                      20           
Everest Drive                   25           
Evesham Drive                   20           
Explanade Street                20           
Fairlands Drive                 20           
Falcons Fire Drive              20           
Falkland Place                  20           
Falls Circle                    15           
Farmhouse Drive                 20           
Farmview Court                  25           
Farmview Lane                   25           
Farnham Drive                   20           
Farr Hills Drive                20           
Faudree Drive                   20           
Featherstone Drive              25           
Fenchurch Drive                 20           
Fenside Crossing                20           
Fern Street                     20           
Fernwood Drive                  20           
Fieldgrass Run                  25           
Fieldstone Court                20           
Fillmore Way                    20           
Flat Rock Drive                 20           
Flowing Creek Place             20           
Flowing Creek Way               20           
Flowing Water Way               20           
Foley Drive                     20           
Folsome Avenue                  20           
Foundation Parkway              20           
Fox Bend Court                  20           
Fox Court                       20           
Fox Lane                        25           
Francis Court                   25           
Frankel Lane                    20           
Free Spirit Court               20           
Free Spirit Way                 20           
Futch Way                       25           
Gaither Boulevard               20           
Gaither Court                   20           
Garrison Circle                 20           
Garrow Drive                    20           
Garwood Drive                   20           
Gasparilla Court                20           
Gateshead Court                 20           
Gateshead Drive                 20           
Genesis Drive                   20           
George Gang Boulevard           20           
Gibbert Lane                    20           
Glen Court                      20           
Glen Way                        20           
Glendale Court                  20           
Glendale Drive                  20           
Glenmoore Circle                20           
Glenview Road                   20           
Goins Boulevard                 20           
Golden Hinde Way                20           
Goldwater Road                  20           
Golf Club Boulevard             25           
Goodtime Court                  25           
Gosford Court                   20           
Grabill Drive                   20           
Graley Place                    20           
Grand Harbor Boulevard          20           
Grand Park Boulevard            25          191st to 186th
Grand Park Boulevard            30          186th to Wheeler Road
Grandview Way                   20           
Grant Street                    20           
Granville Drive                 20           
Grassy Branch Road              30          SR 32 to north of Grassy Knoll
                                            Drive
Grassy Branch Road              35          South of SR 38 to Corporation
                                            Limits
                                            Grassy Knoll Drive to 186th,
Grassy Branch Road              45          Corporation Limits to 196th to
                                            Corporation Limits
Grassy Knoll Drive              20           
Gray Road                       40           
Greensboro Drive                20           
Greenwich Drive                 25           
Greyhound Circle                20           
Greyhound Court                 30           
Grimmenstein Drive              20           
Gristmill Meadows Drive         20           
Gristmill Road                  25           
Griswald Court                  20           
Guerin Way                      25           
Gunther Boulevard               25           
Gurley Street                   20           
Haddam Lane                     25           
Hadleigh Court                  25           
Hadleigh Pass                   25           
Halifax Court                   25           
Hallfield Road                  20           
Halston Drive                   25           
Hampton Road                    25           
Haralson Row                    25           
Harbinger Court                 20           
Harbour Ridge Circle            20           
Harley Lane                     20           
Harstad Boulevard               20           
Harstad Court                   20           
Harstad Drive                   20           
Harvest Court                   25           
Harvest Drive                   25           
Harvest Meadows Drive East      20           
Harvest Meadows Drive South     20           
Harvest Meadows Drive West      20           
Hawaii Court                    25           
Hawk Creek Circle               20           
Hawks Crest Way                 20           
Hawks Way                       15           
Hawkview Lane                   20           
Haxby Lane                      20           
Hayward Way                     20           
Hazy Falls Boulevard            20           
Hazy Falls Court                20           
Heartland Drive                 20           
Heath Circle                    25           
Heathcliff Court                20           
Heather Heath Drive             20           
Heatherbank Drive               20           
Heatherton Drive                20           
Helston Avenue                  25           
Henderson Court                 25           
Hendon Court                    25           
Hickory Manor Lane              20           
Hidden Willow Court             20           
Highclere Lane                  20           
Highwood Drive                  20           
Hillcrest Drive                 20           
Hillyer Lane                    20           
Hinshaw Way                     25           
Holcombe Drive                  20           
Holly Brook Drive               20           
Holly Lane Farms Drive          20           
Holly Oak Drive                 20           
Honors Circle                   15           
Horseshoe Drive                 20           
Horsewood Drive                 20           
Horton Road                     50           
Howden Drive                    25           
Hunter Court                    25           
Hush Hickory Bend               20           
Hymera Green                    20           
Hythe Way                       25           
Idlewind Court                  20           
Idlewind Drive                  20           
Immi Way                        20           
Inez Setters Lane               20           
Ireland Way                     20           
Iron Liege Way                  20           
Jack View Drive                 20           
Jaden Drive                     20           
Jaiper Way                      20           
Jayson Circle                   20           
Jersey Street                   20           
Jet Stream Boulevard            25           
Joliet Road                     35          SR 32 to West Jefferson Street
Joliet Road                     45          West Jefferson Street to
                                            Corporation Limits
Jonathan Drive                  25           
Joshua Circle                   15           
Julep Lane                      20           
Justin Morgan Drive             20           
Karsten Circle                  20           
Kate Court                      20           
Keck Way                        20           
Keller Terrace                  20           
Kempson Court                   25           
Kendall Court                   30           
Kennard Lane                    20           
Kerry Court                     25           
Kilburn Court                   20           
Kimberly Avenue                 25           
Kimblewick Boulevard            20           
Kings Point Court               20           
Kingsbridge Boulevard           25          Maple Village
Kingsbridge Boulevard           20          Maple Knoll
Kingsway Street                 20           
Kinsey Avenue                   30           
Kirklin Drive                   20           
Knighton Court                  20           
Knobstone Way                   20           
Knottingly Way                  25           
Kohut Court                     20           
Kohut Lane                      20           
Kourtney Place                  20           
La Costa Way                    25           
Lair Court                      20           
Lake Winds Drive                20           
Lakes End Court                 20           
Lakes End Drive                 20           
Lakeville Crossing              20           
Lamgate Drive                   20           
Lantern Park Parkway            20           
Larchwood Drive                 20           
Laredo Court                    25           
Layman Place                    20           
Legacy Oaks Drive               20           
Lehigh Avenue                   20           
Lewiston Drive                  20           
Liberty Boulevard               20           
Liberty Drive                   20           
Lichfield Lane                  25           
Lillian Street                  20           
Limbaugh Way                    20           
Lindley Farm Road               20           
Linn Court                      25           
Little Eagle Creek Avenue       35           
Littlebury Road                 20           
Lockwood Drive                  20           
Locomotive Drive                20           
Long Cove Boulevard             25           
Long Cove View                  20           
Longship Court                  20           
Lord Murphy Drive               20           
Lucas Circle                    20           
Lucas Drive                     20           
Lunenburg Drive                 20           
Luster Lane                     20           
Lynch Lane                      20           
Lynton Way                      25           
Macoun Drive                    25           
Madeline Lane                   20           
Mae Circle                      20           
Maggie Court                    25           
Mahoning Road                   20           
Maidstone Avenue                25           
Majestic Oak Court              20           
Malbec Circle                   20           
Man O War Lane                  20           
Manasota Court                  20           
Manassas Drive                  20           
Manning Way                     20           
Maple Creek Drive               20           
Maple Lane                      20           
Maple Park Drive                20           
Maple Ridge Court               20           
Maple Ridge Drive               20           
Maple Street                    20           
Maples Edge Court               20           
Mapleton Place                  20           
Marengo Trail                   20           
Marietta Circle                 20           
Market Center Drive             20          151st Street to Corporation Limits
Market Center Drive             25          Golf Club Boulevard to 151st Street
Market Court                    20           
Markleville Lane                20           
Marsden Drive                   20           
Marshrose Drive                 20           
Maryport Drive                  25           
Matlock Circle                  25           
Matterhorn Drive                25           
Maverick Court                  20           
Maybell Lane                    20           
Mayfield Court                  20           
Mayfield Drive                  20           
McCray Lane                     20           
McDonald Place                  20           
McFall Drive                    20           
Mcintosh Lane                   25           
McKinley Court                  25           
McNamara Court                  20           
Meadowcreek Drive               20           
Meggs Street                    20           
Meijer Drive                    20           
Melbourne Court                 25           
Mercury Court                   25           
Mere Boulevard                  20           
Merrimac Drive                  25           
Mia Drive                       20           
Michelle Lane                   20           
Middle Drive                    20           
Middleground Trace              20           
Midland Main Street             20           
Milhousen Trail                 20           
Mill Street                     20           
Miller Way                      20           
Millwood Circle                 20           
Misty Viking Road               20           
Mithoff Lane                    20           
Mobley Drive                    20           
Monarchos Circle                20           
Monmouth Drive                  20           
Montclair Drive                 20           
Montgomery Drive                20           
Montrose Lane                   20           
Mooring Circle East             15           
Mooring Circle West             15           
Moose Court                     20           
Moose Lane                      20           
Moose Ridge Lane                20           
Moray Street                    20           
Morel Way                       20           
Morley Court                    20           
Morley Lane                     20           
Morning Drive                   20           
Morris Manor Court              20           
Mule Barn Road                  45           
Muscatine Circle                25           
Muscatine Way                   25           
North Cherry Street             20           
North Union Street              20          SR 32 to Penn Street
North Union Street              30          Penn Street to East Street
North Walnut Street             20           
Nancy Street                    20           
Napoleon Court                  20           
Nashua Circle                   20           
Natures Way                     20           
New Haven Drive                 20           
Newberry Lane                   20           
Newby Court                     20           
Newport Drive                   25           
Newton Avenue                   20           
Nickel Plate Drive              20           
Nocturne Drive                  20           
Nolan Court                     20           
North Street                    20           
Northam Drive                   20           
Northwalk Circle                20           
Northwest Drive                 20           
Northwich Avenue                20           
Northwind Court                 20           
Norway Spruce Lane              20           
Nuttalstreet                    20          East Quail Ridge Drive to Overcup
                                            Street
Nyla Court                      20           
Oak Bluffs Drive                20           
Oak Hollow Court                20           
Oak Hollow Lane East            20           
Oak Hollow Lane West            20           
Oak Manor Drive                 20           
Oak Park Circle                 20           
Oak Park Court                  20           
Oak Park Lane                   20           
Oak Park Vista                  20           
Oak Ridge Road                  40          West 146th Street to SR 32
Oak Ridge Road                  45          East 206th Street to Corporation
                                            Limits
Oak Road                        20          East 147th Street to East 151st
                                            Street
Oak Road                        30          East 151st Street to East 171st
                                            Street
Oak Way Trace                   20           
Oaklawn Drive                   20           
Ogala Drive                     20           
Old Rosebud Lane                20           
Old Vines Drive                 20           
Olde Briar Lane                 20           
Oldenburg Circle                20           
Olympus Boulevard               25           
Olympus Court                   25           
Onset Way                       20           
Onward Drive                    20           
Orland Overlook                 20           
Overman Boulevard               20           
Owen Drive                      20           
Oxbow Drive                     20           
Pace Drive                      20           
Pacer Court                     25           
Painter Lane                    20           
Palmyra Drive                   20           
Palmyra Green                   20           
Palomar Drive                   20           
Paperbark Creek Court           20           
Paperbark Creek Drive           20           
Paragon Lane                    20           
Paried Oaks Lane                20           
Park Street                     20          U.S. 31 Street to Mill Street
Parker Lane                     20           
Parkhurst Drive                 20           
Parkway Circle                  20           
Pate Hollow Court               20           
Patty Lane                      20           
Paula Walk                      25           
Pawtucket Drive                 20           
Peabody Way                     20           
Peacehaven Place                20           
Pearson Drive                   25           
Penn Street                     20           
Pennsy Way                      20           
Periwinkle Court                20           
Pete Dye Boulevard              25           
Petersfield Lane                20           
Petit Verdot Drive              20           
Pheasant Run                    20           
Picola Court                    20           
Piedmont Drive                  20           
Pinda Drive                     20           
Pine Wood Lane                  20           
Pinley Place                    20           
Pink Star Court                 20           
Plainville Drive                20           
Plowman Drive                   20           
Plunkett Avenue                 20           
Pollard Drive                   20           
Ponsonby Drive                  20           
Poplar Street                   30           
Porcini Way                     20           
Portobello Place                20           
Post Oak Court                  20           
Potomac Court                   20           
Princeton Lane                  25           
Pristine Court                  20           
Pullman Road                    20           
Puntledge Drive                 20           
Pyrenean Place                  20           
Quincy Place                    20           
Racetime Road                   20           
Rachel Lane                     20           
Radford Court                   20           
Railhead Avenue                 20           
Rambo Drive                     20           
Ranger Way                      20           
Ranier Circle                   25           
Rattlebox Lane                  20           
Raymond Lane                    25           
Redbud Court                    20           
Redhill Road                    25           
Redpointe Drive                 20           
Reichart Drive                  20           
Ressler Court                   20           
Retford Drive                   25          Tilbury Way to Wendover Avenue
Retford Drive                   20          Wendover Avenue to Burntwood Way
Richland Way                    25           
Richters Boulevard              20           
Rickety Drive                   20           
Riddell Lane                    20           
Ridgebrook Drive                20           
Ridgefield Place                20           
Ridgewood Avenue                20           
Riley Street                    20           
Rippling Creek Court            20           
Rippling Creek Way              20           
River Birch Road                25           
River Crest Court               20           
River Jordan Circle             20           
River Jordan Drive              20           
River Jordan Pass               20           
Riverbank Drive                 20           
Riverstone Court                20           
Roanoke Drive                   20           
Rockrose Court                  25           
Rolling Court                   20           
Rollingwood Circle              20           
Romalong Court                  25           
Romalong Lane                   25           
Roman Court                     25           
Roosevelt Street                20           
Rosebank Drive                  20           
Roseclair Drive                 20           
Rosemill Drive                  20           
Rosemoss Crossing               25           
Rossmay Drive                   20           
Roudebush Way                   20           
Ruffian Drive                   20           
Rushmore Drive                  20           
Rushton Street                  20           
Rutherford Drive                20           
South Burntwood Way             20           
South Cherry Street             20           
South Union Street              20          SR 32 to South Street
South Union Street              30          South Street to Valley Farms Drive
South Union Street              35          Valley Farms Drive to Woodside
                                            Drive
South Walnut Street             20           
South Waterleaf Drive           25           
Saddlehorn Court                20           
Saddlehorn Drive                20           
Sadie Lane                      25           
Salimonia Lane                  20           
Sanders Farm Circle             20           
Sandy Cove Lane                 20           
Sanibel Circle                  20           
Sapp Circle                     20           
Sapphire Drive                  25           
Savannah Lane                   20           
Sawtooth Oak Circle             20           
Sawtooth Oak Court              20           
Sawtooth Street                 20           
Scher Drive                     20           
Schweitzer Drive                20           
Scofield Farms Boulevard        20           
Scofield Ridge Boulevard        20           
Scout Lane                      20           
Seaforth Way                    20           
Semillion Boulevard             20           
Senator Way                     20          West Greyhound Pass to Kings Point
                                            Court
Senator Way                     25          Abbedale Court to West Greyhound
                                            Pass
Seneca Circle                   20           
Setters Road                    20           
Shadoan Way                     25           
Shadow Lakes Drive East         20           
Shadow Lakes Drive North        20           
Shadow Lakes Drive West         20           
Shady Lake Drive                20           
Shady Nook Road                 40          SR 32 to Corporation Limits
Shaelynn Court                  20           
Shamrock Boulevard              15           
Sheffield Park Court            20           
Sheffield Park Way              20           
Shelborne Road                  45           
Shelton Cove Way                20           
Sherlock Drive                  20           
Sherry Court                    25           
Shetland Court                  25           
Shine Court                     20           
Shoreway East Court             25           
Shoreway East Drive             25           
Short Terrace                   20           
Shower Court                    25           
Shumard Oak Drive               20           
Silver Court                    20           
Silver Lakes Drive              20           
Silver Thorne Way               20           
Silverdale Court                20           
Silverheels Drive               20           
Six Points Road                 55          Corporation Limits to Corporation
                                            Limits
Sleepy Hollow Court             20           
Sleepy Hollow Drive             20           
Slippery Rock Court             20           
Smiley Court                    20           
Smithfield Drive                20           
Snowdon Drive                   20           
Solitude Court                  20           
Somerville Drive                20           
Sonhatsett Drive                20           
Sonnet Park Lane                20           
Southall Drive                  25           
Southpark Drive                 30           
Southridge Court                20           
Southridge Lane                 20           
Southwell Drive                 20           
Sparkling Water Way             20           
Spillwater Way                  20           
Spinnaker Drive                 15           
Spring Lake Drive               20           
Spring Mill Depot Drive         20           
Spring Mill Road                40          West 146th Street to West 186th
                                            Street
Spring Mill Road                35          West 186th Street to West 193rd
                                            Street
Spring Winds Drive              20           
Springmeadow Lane               20           
Stafford Drive                  20           
Stanza Way                      20           
Starflower Drive                20           
Stargrass Drive                 25           
Stargrass Lane                  25           
Stars Pride Court               25           
Starview Drive                  20           
Staten Court                    20           
Stayman Way                     25           
Steel Horse Drive               20           
Sterling Bluff Court            15           
Stockbridge Drive               20           
Stonnenger Street               20           
Storm Jib Court                 20           
Story Court                     25           
Straley Court                   20           
Stratfield Way                  20           
Stroud Lane                     25           
Sulky Way                       25           
Sullivan Lane                   20           
Sumrall Place                   20           
Sun Park Drive                  20           
Sun Valley Court                20           
Sun Valley Drive                20           
Sunbrook Court                  20           
Sunbrook Way                    20           
Sundew Circle                   25           
Sundial Court                   20           
Sundial Drive                   20           
Sunningdale Way                 20           
Sunshine Court                  20           
Super Star Court                25           
Super Star Drive                25           
Susan Court                     25           
Sutton Terrace                  20           
Swinton Way                     25           
Sycamore Street                 20           
Tarpon Bay Drive                20           
Tausen Place                    20           
Terra Vista Place               20           
Thatcher Lane                   20           
Thomas Jefferson Street         20           
Thornapple Drive                20           
Tilbury Way                     25           
Tiller Court                    20           
Timber Bluff Road               20           
Timberbrook Run                 20           
Tomlinson Road                  30          186th Street to 191st Street
Tomlinson Road                  40          191st Street to 203rd Street
Tompkins Drive                  20           
Torrey Court                    20           
Touralosa Drive                 20           
Tourmaline Drive                20           
Tournament Trail                25           
Towne Road                      45           
Trescott Drive                  20           
Trestle Drive                   20           
Tributary Court                 20           
Tricia Lane                     20           
Trifecta Way                    20           
Trillium Court                  20           
Trotter Court                   25           
Troy Drive                      20           
Troy Lane                       20           
Turntable Court                 20           
Tuxedo Drive                    20           
Updike Circle                   20           
Useppa Court                    20           
Ushant Court                    20           
Ushant Street                   20           
Valcour Place                   20           
Valdosta Place                  20           
Valley Court                    25           
Valley View Drive               25           
Ventura Drive                   20           
Vernon Place                    20           
Viburnum Run                    25           
Victory Court                   25           
Viewpoint Lane                  20           
Viking Commander Way            20           
Viking Crusader Court           20           
Viking Eclipse Court            20           
Viking Lair Road                20           
Viking Meadows Drive            20           
Viking Sunrise Lane             20           
Viking Warrior Boulevard        20           
Viking Warrior Drive            20           
Village Park Circle             20           
Village Park East Drive         20           
Village Park North Drive        20           
Village Park South Drive        20           
Village Park West Drive         20           
Vintage Court North             20           
Vintage Court South             20           
Voyager Drive                   20           
West 151st Street               30          Ditch Road to Shelborne Road
West 156th Street               45          West Evening Rose Way to Towne Road
West 159th Street               35          Towne Road to Little Eagle Creek
                                            Avenue
West 161st Street               40          Spring Mill Road to Towne Road
West 166th Street               45          Ditch Road to Little Eagle Creek
                                            Avenue
West 169th Street               35          Spring Mill Road to Ditch Road
West 171st Street               35          West 169th Street to Burntwood Way
West 171st Street               30          Burntwood Way to Ditch Road
West 186th Street               35          Kinsey Avenue to Corporation Limits
West 191st Street               35           
West 193rd Street               50          Casey Road to Spring Mill Road
West Admiral Way South          25           
West Blackwolf Run Drive        20           
West Clear Lake Lane            20           
West Columbine Lane             25           
West Evening Rose Way           25           
West Fork Drive                 20           
West Greyhound Pass             25           
West Hoover Street              30           
West Jefferson Street           20           
West Laredo Way South           25           
West Madison Street             20           
West May Apple Circle           25           
West Pine Ridge Drive           20           
West Quail Wood Lane            20           
West Rail Drive                 20           
West Rowan Court                25           
West Rowan Run                  25           
West Senator Way                25           
West Springmill Pointe Drive    30           
West Tansey Crossing            25           
West Tournament Trail           25           
Walcott Drive                   25           
Wanatah Circle                  20           
Wanatah Trail                   20           
Warner Trail                    25           
Warrington Avenue               25           
Washington Street (Eagletown)   20           
Washington Street (Jolietville) 20           
Waterleaf Drive                 20           
Watertown Drive                 20           
Wayne Way                       20           
Weihe Lane                      20           
Weldon Way                      20           
Wellpark Drive                  20           
Wendover Avenue                 25           
Wentz Drive                     20           
Western Way                     30           
Westfield Boulevard             35          David Brown Drive to Park Street
Westfield Boulevard             35          151st Street to 156th Street
Westfield Boulevard             35          161st Street to Woodside Drive
Westfield Boulevard             40          156th Street to 161st Street
Westfield Business Park Court   25           
Westfield Park Road             30           
Westlea Drive                   20           
Westmore Lane                   20           
Wetherington Drive              20          Gunther Boulevard to Elkhorn Way
Wetherington Drive              25          Carey Road to Gunther Boulevard
Wheatfield Court                25           
Wheatfield Lane                 25           
Wheeler Road                    30          SR 32 to 186th Street
Wheeler Road                    25          Westfield Business Park Court to SR
                                            32
Whispering Oaks Drive           20           
White Willow Drive              20           
Whitebark Court                 20           
Whitney Road                    25           
Wildflower Court                25           
Wildflower Lane                 25           
Wildrye Drive                   25           
Wilkes Way                      20           
Wilkey Circle                   20           
Willenhall Court                20           
Willenhall Way                  20           
William Trace Boulevard         20           
Williamson Lane                 25           
Willow Branch Way               20           
Willow Creek Way                20           
Wilshire Boulevard              20           
Wind Skip Circle                20           
Windmill Circle                 20           
Windmill Drive                  20           
Winds Crest Drive               20           
Windsor Estates Court           20           
Windsor Park Drive              20           
Windwood Circle                 20           
Winslow Drive                   20           
Wolcott Court                   20           
Wood Hollow Court               20           
Woodcrest Court                 20           
Woodford Drive                  20           
Woodglen Drive                  20           
Woodsage Court                  25           
Woodside Drive                  20           
Woodstream Court                20           
Workington Circle               20           
Workington Way                  20           
Worth Court                     25           
Yeoman Way                      20           
Zachary Lane                    25           
Zenith Drive                    20           
Zephyr Way                      25           
 
(Prior Code, § 58-353) (Ord. 23-31, passed 10-23-2023; Ord. 24-11, passed 2-12-
2024; Ord. 24-73, passed 12-23-2024)
SCHEDULE X. SCHOOL ZONE SPEED LIMITS.
All School Zone Hours:
7:00 a.m. until 10:00 a.m. in the morning
2:00 pm until 4:30 p.m. in the afternoons
School speed limits are in effect during the calendar school year, when school
is in session
Street Name        Speed (mph)
Carey Road         25 School Zone at Carey Ridge Elementary
Ditch Road         25 School Zone at Maple Glen Elementary
Grassy Branch Road 25 School Zone at Washington Woods Elementary
Gray Road          25 School Zone at Guerin Catholic High School
North Union Street 25 School Zone at Westfield High School
Oak Ridge Road     25 School Zone at Oak Trace Elementary
South Union Street 20 School Zone at Union Bible College
Shamrock Boulevard 15 School Zone at Westfield Intermediate/Middle Schools
Spring Mill Road   25 School Zone at St. Maria Goretti Catholic School
Tomlinson Road     25 School Zone at Monon Trail Elementary
West 161st Street  25 School Zone at Shamrock Springs Elementary
West 169th Street  25 School Zone at St. Maria Goretti Catholic School
West 171st Street  25 School Zone at Maple Glen Elementary
West Hoover Street 25 School Zone at Westfield High School
 
(Prior Code, § 58-353.1) (Ord. 23-31, passed 10-23-2023; Ord. 24-11, passed 2-
12-2024; Ord. 24-73, passed 12-23-2024)
SCHEDULE XI. ALLEYS.
Alley Name Alley Location
Alley Name       Alley Location
Amber Alley      Between Park Street and Jersey Street
East Alley       Between SR 32 and Hickory Alley
Elm Alley        Between Hickory Alley and Vine Alley
Hickory Alley    Between North Union Street and East Street
Mulberry Alley   Between Vine Alley and North Street
Oak Alley        Between Camilla Court and Cherry Street
Oak Hollow Alley Between Oak Hollow Lane East and Oak Hollow Lane West
Tulip Alley      Between Maple Street and Amber Alley
Vine Alley       Between Cherry Street and South Union Street
 
(Prior Code, § 58-356) (Ord. 23-31, passed 10-23-2023; Ord. 24-11, passed 2-12-
2024)
SCHEDULE XII. TRAFFIC CONTROL IN ALLEYS.
Amber Alley          at Jersey Street       2-Way Stop
Amber Alley          at Tulip Alley         1-Way Stop
East Alley           at Penn Street         2-Way Stop
East Street          at Hickory Alley       1-Way Stop
Elm Alley            at Oak Alley           1-Way Stop
Elm Alley            at Vine Alley          1-Way Stop
Hickory Alley        at East Alley          1-Way Stop
Hickory Alley        at North Cherry Street 2-Way Stop
Hickory Alley        at North Walnut Street 3-Way Stop
Maple Street         at Tulip Alley         1-Way Stop
Mulberry Alley       at Hickory Alley       2-Way Stop
Mulberry Alley       at Oak Alley           1-Way Stop
Mulberry Alley       at Penn Street         2-Way Stop
Mulberry Alley       at Vine Alley          1-Way Stop
North Cherry Street  at Oak Alley           1-Way Stop
North Union Street   at Hickory Alley       1-Way Stop
North Union Street   at Oak Alley           1-Way Stop
Oak Hollow Lane East at Oak Hollow Alley    1-Way Stop
Oak Hollow Lane West at Oak Hollow Alley    1-Way Stop
Park Street          at Amber Alley         1-Way Stop
Penn Street          at Elm Alley           1-Way Stop
South Union Street   at Vine Alley          1-Way Stop
State Road 32        at East Alley          1-Way Stop
State Road 32        at Elm Alley           1-Way Stop
Vine Alley           at South Walnut Street 3-Way Stop
Walnut Street        at Oak Alley           1-Way Stop
 
(Prior Code, § 58-357) (Ord. 23-31, passed 10-23-2023; Ord. 24-11, passed 2-12-
2024)
CHAPTER 77: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Restricted parking zones
      
II.   Parking restrictions on SR 32
      
III.   Parking zones restrictions (SR 32)
      
IV.   Two hour parking zones restrictions
      
V.   Parking zones restrictions map
      
VI.   Parking zones restriction penalties
      
VII.   Park street valet zone and 20 minute parking
      
VIII.   Reserved parking lots
      
IX.   No parking locations in city parks
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED PARKING ZONES.
Street Location of Restricted Parking Zone Side of Street Restrictions
                    Location of
Street              Restricted Parking  Side of Street      Restrictions
                    Zone
                    Along Shamrock
161st Street        Springs Elementary  North and South     24 Hours
                    Baseball Courts
186th Street        From Wheeler Road   Medians             24 Hours
                    to Spring Mill Road
                    From Grand Park
186th Street        Boulevard to Kinsey North and South     24 Hours
                    Avenue
191st Street        At Grand Park along South               24 Hours
                    Lot B
196th Street        In cul-de-sac west  North               24 Hours
                    of U.S. 31
Abaccus Lane        From Cavallina Lane North               24 Hours
                    to Del Mar Way
Adena Lane          From Nickel Plate   North               24 Hours
                    Drive to Pennsy Way
Adios Pass          Adios Pass Lift     West                24 Hours
                    Station
Adlo Lane           From Workington Way South               24 Hours
                    to Bingham Drive
Adlo Lane           From Workington Way North               24 Hours
                    to Connolly Drive
Aerion Court        From Touralosa      West                24 Hours
                    Drive to end
                    From Shady Nook
Andover Parkway     Road to Limbaugh    North               24 Hours
                    Way
                    From Viking Meadows
Ascot Farm Way      Drive to            South               24 Hours
                    Silverheels Drive
Astoria Avenue      From Atwater Avenue South and East      24 Hours
                    to end
                    From West 193rd
Atwater Avenue      Street to Astoria   East                24 Hours
                    Avenue
                    From East 161st
Baltic Pass         Street to Harstad   East and West       24 Hours
                    Boulevard
Bastian Court       From East Street to North and South     24 Hours
                    end
                    From Kingsbridge
Bingham Drive       Boulevard to Adlo   North and East      24 Hours
                    Lane
Birdview Court      From Shady Lake     East                24 Hours
                    Drive to end
                    From East Blackwolf
Birkdale Boulevard  Run Drive to        South               24 Hours
                    Setters Road
                    From Birkdale
Birkdale Drive      Boulevard to East   North and East      24 Hours
                    151st Street
Blackburn Road      In cul-de-sac west  North               24 Hours
                    of U.S. 31
Blenheim Place      From Snowdon Drive  North               24 Hours
                    to end
Boyd Place          From Ireland Way to North and South     24 Hours
                    Mcfall Drive
Briarpatch Circle   From Birkdale Drive East and West       24 Hours
                    to end
Bridgewater Club    From 550 feet to
Boulevard           1,000 feet south of Both Sides          24 Hours
                    161st Street
Brigg Court         From Southall Drive West                24 Hours
                    to end
Broken Arrow Drive  From Oaklawn Drive  West                24 Hours
                    to Touralosa Drive
                    From 151st Street
Buchanan Lane       to Lord Murphy      South and East      24 Hours
                    Drive
Burntwood Way       From Retford Drive  South               24 Hours
                    to Petersfield Lane
                    From Tilbury Way to
Burntwood Way       Kingsbridge         North               24 Hours
                    Boulevard
                    From Byrding Drive/
Byrding Court       Longship Court to   South               24 Hours
                    end
Byrding Drive       From Voyager Drive  North and East      24 Hours
                    to Byrding Court
Cabrillio Court     From Zenith Drive   East                24 Hours
                    to end
                    From West 169th
Canberra Boulevard  Street to Cavallina North and East      24 Hours
                    Lane
Canberra Boulevard  From Cavallina Lane South               24 Hours
                    to Del Mar Way
                    From Viking
Capital Spending    Commander Way to    West                24 Hours
Road                Viking Commander
                    Way
Catkins Court       From Durmast Oak    South               24 Hours
                    Drive to end
                    From Touralosa
Cavallina Lane      Drive to Canberra   East                24 Hours
                    Boulevard
                    From Canberra
Cavallina Lane      Boulevard to        West                24 Hours
                    Abaccus Lane
Chatham Bend Drive  From Barricade to   North and West      24 Hours
                    Chatham Brook Drive
                    From Horton Road to
Chatham Brook Drive Chatham Hills       South               24 Hours
                    Boulevard
Chatham Green Court                    South and West      24 Hours
                    From Chatham Bend
Chatham Green Drive Drive to Hampstead  West                24 Hours
                    Court/Elmsborough
                    Bnd
Cliff View Drive    From Viewpoint Lane North               24 Hours
                    to Starview Drive
Commander Court     From Viking Meadows North               24 Hours
                    Drive to end
Connolly Drive      From Adlo Lane to   West                24 Hours
                    Plunkett Avenue
Cordial Court       From Durmast Oak    North and South     24 Hours
                    Drive to end
Cork Court          From Durmast Oak    South               24 Hours
                    Drive to end
                    350 feet south of
Corral Court        the C/L of          East and West       Sunrise to Sunset
                    Greyhound Pass
Countryside         From East 169th
Boulevard           Street to           East                24 Hours
                    Brooksburg Drive
Cross Lakes Court   From Roudebush Way  West                24 Hours
                    to end
Crosswater Way      From Casey Road to  North and South     24 Hours
                    Nickel Plate Drive
                    From Sandy Cove
Crosswater Way      Lane to Viewpoint   South               24 Hours
                    Lane
Deer Walk Trace     Freedom Trail Park  North and South     24 Hours
                    Entrance
                    From Canberra
Del Mar Way         Boulevard to        West                24 Hours
                    Gosford Court
Denton Court        From Retford Drive  North               24 Hours
                    to end
                    From Sawtooth Oak
Durmast Oak Drive   Circle to Post Oak  East                24 Hours
                    Court
                    From Oak Manor
Durmast Oak Drive   Drive to Cordial    East and West       24 Hours
                    Court/Pyrenean
                    Place
East Blackwolf Run  From 151st Street
Drive               to West Blackwolf   West                24 Hours
                    Run Drive
Grand Park          From 191st Street   East and West       24 Hours
Boulevard           to 186th Street
                    390 feet East and
East Greyhound Pass West of the C/L of  North and South     Sunrise to Sunset
                    the Monon Trail
East Greyhound Pass 200 feet East of    North               24 Hours
                    Shoreway East
                    From North East
East Hoover Street  Street to North     North               24 Hours
                    Union Street
East Tournament     From Sun Park Drive North and South     24 Hours
Trail               to Wheeler Road
East Street         From Birch Street   East                24 Hours
                    to Deer Walk Trace
                    From Lord Murphy
Eclipse Road        Drive to Lord       West and North      24 Hours
                    Murphy Drive
Edinbrook Court     From Edinbrook Lane South and East      24 Hours
                    to end
                    From Shady Lake
Edinbrook Lane      Drive to Edinbrook  East                24 Hours
                    Court
Esher Court                            West                24 Hours
                    From Wendover
Evesham Drive       Avenue to Farnham   East                24 Hours
                    Drive
                    From Silverheels
Falcons Fire Drive  Drive to Viking     West                24 Hours
                    Meadows Drive
                    From Wendover
Farnham Drive       Avenue to Evesham   North and West      24 Hours
                    Drive
Featherstone Drive  From Burgess Hill   East                24 Hours
                    Pass to Hythe Way
Featherstone Drive  From Hythe Way to   South               24 Hours
                    Hythe Way
Fox Bend Court      South of Legacy     West                24 Hours
                    Oaks Drive
Frankel Lane        From Ruffian Drive  West                24 Hours
                    to Ruffian Drive
Garrison Circle     From Ireland Way to North and South     24 Hours
                    end
Genesis Drive       From Oxbow Drive to South               24 Hours
                    Onward Drive
George Gang         From 169th Street
Boulevard           to Majestic Oak     East and West       24 Hours
                    Court
George Gang         From Majestic Oak
Boulevard           Court to Shumard    East                24 Hours
                    Oak Drive
Glenmoore Circle    From Birkdale       East and West       24 Hours
                    Boulevard to end
Goldwater Road      From Tausen Place   East and West       24 Hours
                    to Limbaugh Way
Gosford Court       From Del Mar Way to South               24 Hours
                    end
                    From Grassy Branch
Grassy Knoll Drive  Road to 100 feet    North and South     24 Hours
                    east
                    From Azalea Court
Grassy Knoll Drive  to Redbud Court     West                24 Hours
                    between signs
Gristmill Road      From SR 32 to West  East and West       24 Hours
                    Tournament Trail
                    From Wetherington
Gunther Boulevard   Drive to Dovehouse  East                24 Hours
                    Lane
Harbour Ridge       From Birkdale Drive East and West       24 Hours
Circle              to end
Harstad Boulevard   From Baltic Pass to North               24 Hours
                    Harstad Drive
Harstad Court       From Viking Warrior East                24 Hours
                    Boulevard to end
                    From Harstad Drive
Harstad Drive       to Viking Warrior   East                24 Hours
                    Boulevard
                    From Shady Lake
Hawks Crest Way     Drive to Sheffield  East                24 Hours
                    Park Way
Hazy Falls          From Timber Bluff
Boulevard           Road to Sunbrook    East and North      24 Hours
                    Way
Hazy Falls          From Sunbrook Way   South               24 Hours
Boulevard           to Viewpoint Lane
Hazy Falls Court    From Timber Bluff   South and East      24 Hours
                    Road to end
Heathcliff Court    From Falkland Drive East                24 Hours
                    to end
Heathcliff Court    Along median in     Middle of Median    24 Hours
                    cul-de-sac
                    From Legacy Oaks
Heatherton Drive    Drive to Whispering East                24 Hours
                    Oaks Drive
                    From Kingsbridge
Helston Avenue      Boulevard to South  North and South     24 Hours
                    Burntwood Way
Hendon Court        From Tilbury Way to South               24 Hours
                    end
Highclere Lane      From Mahoning Road  East                24 Hours
                    to end
                    From Belle Crest
Holly Brook Drive   Way to Hickory      North               24 Hours
                    Manor Lane
Hoover Street       Between U.S. 31 to  North and South     24 Hours
                    North Union Street
                    From Burgess Hill
Hythe Way           Pass to             North               24 Hours
                    Featherstone Drive
Idlewind Court      From end to         West                24 Hours
                    Roudebush Way
Idlewind Drive      From Roudebush Way  North and West      24 Hours
                    to Lake Winds Drive
                    From Garrison
Ireland Way         Circle to Andover   East and West       24 Hours
                    Parkway
Jersey Street       From Poplar Street  North and South     24 Hours
                    to Mill Street
Karsten Circle      From Birkdale       East and West       24 Hours
                    Boulevard to end
Kate Court          From Sheffield Park West                24 Hours
                    Way to end
Kempson Court       From Retford Drive  North               24 Hours
                    to end
                    From Kingsbridge
Kimberly Avenue     Boulevard to Stroud South               24 Hours
                    Lane
Kimblewick          From Lord Murphy    North and South     24 Hours
Boulevard           Drive to Towne Road
Knobstone Way       From Ogala Drive to West                24 Hours
                    Adena Lane
                    From Kingsbridge
Knottingly Way      Boulevard to Stroud South               24 Hours
                    Lane
                    From Shady Lake
Lake Winds Drive    Drive to Idlewind   West                24 Hours
                    Drive
Lake Winds Drive    From Idlewind Drive West and North      24 Hours
                    to Idlewind Drive
Lake Winds Drive    From Idlewind Drive South and West      24 Hours
                    to Shady Lake Drive
Lakes End Court     From Roudebush Way  West                24 Hours
                    to end
Lakes End Drive     From Mere Boulevard West                24 Hours
                    to Roudebush Way
Legacy Oaks Drive   From Ressler Court  North and West      24 Hours
                    to Oak Ridge Road
Lichfield Lane      From Tilbury Way to South               24 Hours
                    end
Limbaugh Way        From Goldwater Road North and South     24 Hours
                    to Andover Parkway
Longship Court      From Byrding Court  East                24 Hours
                    to end
Lord Murphy Drive   From Buchanan Lane  West and North      24 Hours
                    to Ruffian Drive
Lunenburg Drive     From Sullivan Lane  North               24 Hours
                    to end
                    From Burgess Hill
Lynton Way          Pass to Redhill     North               24 Hours
                    Road
Macoun Drive        From Casey Road to  North               24 Hours
                    Paula Walk
Mahoning Road       From Astoria Avenue North               24 Hours
                    to end
                    From Kingsbridge
Maidstone Avenue    Boulevard to Stroud South               24 Hours
                    Lane
Majestic Oak Court  From George Gang    North               24 Hours
                    Boulevard to end
                    From North Union
Maple Park Drive    Street to Harvest   North and South     24 Hours
                    Meadows Drive West
                    From Guerin Way to
Market Center Drive 115 feet north of   East and West       24 Hours
                    Mystic Rock Drive/
                    Mission Hills Drive
Maverick Court      From Cavallina Lane South               24 Hours
                    to end
                    From Rushton Street
McCray Lane         to end of McCray    South               24 Hours
                    Lane
McNamara Court      From Oak Ridge Road North               24 Hours
                    to end
Mill Street         From Park Street to East                24 Hours
                    SR 32
Mill Street         From SR 32 to       West                24 Hours
                    Jersey Street
                    From Glen Way to
Miller Way          George Gang         North               24 Hours
                    Boulevard
                    From Mooring Circle
Mooring Circle East West to Mooring     West                24 Hours
                    Circle West
                    From Mooring Circle
Mooring Circle West East to Mooring     East                24 Hours
                    Circle East
Morley Court        From Peacehaven     South               24 Hours
                    Place to end
Morley Lane         From Connolly Drive North               24 Hours
                    to Peacehaven Place
                    From Lantern Park
Morning Drive       Parkway to Natures  East                24 Hours
                    Way
                    From Hoover Street
North Union Street  to 80 feet south of East                24 Hours
                    Penn Street
North Union Street  From Hoover Street  West                24 Hours
                    to 100 feet south
North Union Street  From SR 32 to Oak   West                24 Hours
                    Alley
                    From Lantern Park
Natures Way         Parkway to Morning  North and West      24 Hours
                    Drive
                    From Steel Horse
Nickel Plate Drive  Drive to Ogala      West                24 Hours
                    Drive
Northwich Avenue    From Retford Drive  North               24 Hours
                    to Petersfield Lane
                    From Oak Hollow
Oak Hollow Alley    Lane East to Oak    East and West       24 Hours
                    Hollow Lane West
Oak Hollow Court    From Birkdale Drive North               24 Hours
                    to end
                    From Durmast Oak
Oak Manor Drive     Drive to Caden      North               24 Hours
                    Court
Oak Manor Drive     Durmast Oak Drive   Both                24 Hours
                    Roundabout
Oak Park Lane       From Oak Park Vista North and East      24 Hours
                    to end
                    From Oak Park
Oak Park Vista      Circle to Oak Way   North and West      24 Hours
                    Trace
Oak Way Trace       From Oak Road to    North               24 Hours
                    end
                    From Canberra
Oaklawn Drive       Boulevard to Broken North               24 Hours
                    Arrow Drive
Ogala Drive         From Nickel Plate   South               24 Hours
                    Drive to end
                    From Buchanan Lane
Old Rosebud Lane    to Kimblewick       West and North      24 Hours
                    Boulevard
                    From Genesis Drive
Onward Drive        to Lakeville        West                24 Hours
                    Crossing
Oxbow Drive         From Genesis Drive  East                24 Hours
                    to Zenith Drive
                    From Westfield
Park Street         Boulevard/Poplar    North               24 Hours
                    Street to Mill
                    Street
                    From Parkway Circle
Park Street         to Westfield        South               24 Hours
                    Boulevard/Poplar
                    Street
Park Street         See Ch. 77, Sch.    South               See Ch. 77, Sch.
                    VII                                     VII
Pate Hollow Court   From Ogala Drive to East                24 Hours
                    end
Paula Walk          From Macoun Drive   North               24 Hours
                    to Stayman Way
                    From Burgess Hill
Peacehaven Place    Pass to Plunkett    East                24 Hours
                    Avenue
Pennsy Way          From Ogala Drive to East                24 Hours
                    end
                    From Wendover
Petersfield Lane    Avenue to Burntwood East                24 Hours
                    Way
Picola Court        From Shumard Oak    North               24 Hours
                    Drive to end
Pinda Drive         From end to end     West                24 Hours
Plunkett Avenue     From Connolly Drive South               24 Hours
                    to Peacehaven Place
                    From Jersey Street
Poplar Street       to 100 feet south   East                24 Hours
                    of Jersey Street
                    From Jersey Street
Poplar Street       to 100 feet south   West                24 Hours
                    of Jersey Street
                    From Park Street to
Poplar Street       165 feet north of   West                24 Hours
                    Park Street
Post Oak Court      From Durmast Oak    South               24 Hours
                    Drive to end
Pristine Court      From George Gang    South               24 Hours
                    Boulevard to end
Pyrenean Place      From Durmast Oak    North and South     24 Hours
                    Drive to end
                    From Oak Ridge Road
Racetime Road       to Viking Sunrise   South               24 Hours
                    Lane
Rattlebox Lane      From Nickel Plate   South               24 Hours
                    Drive to end
Redpointe Drive     From Sheffield Park East                24 Hours
                    Way to end
                    From end to
Ressler Court       Whispering Oaks     West                24 Hours
                    Drive
Retford Drive       From Tilbury Way to North and East      24 Hours
                    Wendover Avenue
                    From Wendover
Retford Drive       Avenue to Burntwood East and West       24 Hours
                    Way
                    From Rattlebox Lane
Rickety Drive       to Steel Horse      West                24 Hours
                    Drive
                    From 159th Street
Rippling Creek Way  to Paperbark Creek  East and West       24 Hours
                    Drive
River Crest Court   From Sparkling      West                24 Hours
                    Water Way to end
                    From Sparkling
River Crest Court   Water Way to        East                24 Hours
                    Shumard Oak Drive
Riverbank Drive     From Starview Drive South               24 Hours
                    to Viewpoint Lane
                    From Lakes End
Roudebush Way       Drive to Idlewind   North               24 Hours
                    Court
                    From Frankel Lane
Ruffian Drive       to Lord Murphy      Both sides          24 Hours
                    Drive
                    From Petersfield
South Burntwood Way Lane to Helston     East                24 Hours
                    Avenue
South Cherry Street From SR 32 to       East and West       24 Hours
                    Midland Trail
                    Bridge over Cool
South Union Street  Creek Tributary     East                24 Hours
                    (AKA - Anna Kendall
                    Drain)
Saddlehorn Drive    From Carey Road to  North and South     24 Hours
                    Windmill Drive
                    From Saddlehorn
Saddlehorn Drive    Court to Windmill   South               24 Hours
                    Drive
                    From Crosswater Way
Sandy Cove Lane     to 160 feet north   East                24 Hours
                    of Timber Bluff
                    Road
Shady Lake Drive    From Mere Boulevard South (Eastbound)   24 Hours
                    to Shady Nook Road
Shamrock Boulevard  In front of         East                24 Hours
                    Intermediate School
Sheffield Park      From Redpointe      South               24 Hours
Court               Drive to end
                    From Shady Nook
Sheffield Park Way  Road to Redpointe   South               24 Hours
                    Drive
                    From George Gang
Shumard Oak Drive   Boulevard to        North and West      24 Hours
                    Sparkling Water Way
Silverdale Court    From Voyager Drive  North               24 Hours
                    to end
                    From Viking Meadows
Silverheels Drive   Drive to Ascot Farm North               24 Hours
                    Way
Smiley Court        From Tausen Place   East and West       24 Hours
                    to end
                    From Wetherington
Snowdon Drive       Drive to            Both                24 Hours
                    Wetherington Drive
Steel Horse Drive   From Casey Road to  South               24 Hours
                    Nickel Plate Drive
Steel Horse Drive   From Casey Road to  North               24 Hours
                    Rickety Drive
                    From Kingsbridge
Southall Drive      Boulevard to Brigg  South               24 Hours
                    Court
                    From 126 Southridge
Southridge Lane     Lane to South Union North               24 Hours
                    Street
                    From Shumard Oak
Sparkling Water Way Drive to Vintage    South               24 Hours
                    Court
Spring Mill Road    From 186th Street   East                24 Hours
                    to 191st Street
Stafford Drive      From Lynton Way to  North and East      24 Hours
                    Redhill Road
                    From Timber Bluff
Starview Drive      Road to Hazy Falls  East                24 Hours
                    Boulevard
State Road 32       See Ch. 77, Sch. II                     See Ch. 77, Sch. II
Storm Jib Court     From Holly Lane     East                24 Hours
                    Farms Drive to end
Stratfield Way      From Wetherington   North               24 Hours
                    Drive to end
Stroud Lane         From Helston Avenue West                24 Hours
                    to Knottingly Way
Sunbrook Court      From Sunbrook Way   North               24 Hours
                    to end
                    From Timberbluff to
Sunbrook Way        Hazy Falls          East                24 Hours
                    Boulevard
                    From Birkdale
Sunningdale Way     Boulevard to        South               24 Hours
                    Birkdale Drive
Swinton Way         From Tilbury Way to South               24 Hours
                    end
Tausen Place        From Shady Nook     North and South     24 Hours
                    Road to end
                    From Legacy Oaks
Thornapple Drive    Drive to Whispering West                24 Hours
                    Oaks Drive
Tilbury Way         From Burntwood Way  West                24 Hours
                    to Redford Drive
                    From Sandy Cove
Timber Bluff Road   Lane to Hazy Falls  South               24 Hours
                    Boulevard
                    From Broken Arrow
Touralosa Drive     Drive to Cavallina  South               24 Hours
                    Lane
Tourmaline Drive    From Addison Court  North and East      24 Hours
                    to end
Viewpoint Lane      From Timber Bluff   East                24 Hours
                    Road to end
Viking Commander    From Viking Lair
Way                 Road to Viking      Clockwise Direction 24 Hours
                    Meadows Drive
Viking Crusader     From 156th Street   West                24 Hours
Court               to end
Viking Eclipse      From 156th Street   East                24 Hours
Court               to end
Viking Meadows      From Silverheels
Drive               Drive to Holly      East                24 Hours
                    Farms Lane Drive
Viking Meadows      From Holly Lane
Drive               Farms Drive to      West                24 Hours
                    Falcons Fire Drive
Viking Warrior      From Oak Ridge Road
Boulevard           to Harstad Court/   North and South     24 Hours
                    Harstad Drive
                    From Harstad Court/
Viking Warrior      Harstad Drive to    South               24 Hours
Boulevard           Viking Warrior
                    Drive
Viking Warrior      From Baltic Pass to
Drive               Viking Warrior      West                24 Hours
                    Boulevard
Village Park North  From Carey Road to  North and South     24 Hours
Drive               100 feet west
Vine Alley          20 feet from Union  North               24 Hours
                    Street
Vintage Court North From Sparkling      East                24 Hours
                    Water Way to end
Vintage Court South From Sparkling      West                24 Hours
                    Water Way to end
West Blackwolf Run  From East Blackwolf
Drive               Run Drive to East   East                24 Hours
                    Blackwolf Run Drive
                    From 156th Street
West Evening Rose   to just north of    East and West       24 Hours
Way                 River Birch Road
                    intersection
West Tournament     From Ditch Road to  North and South     24 Hours
Trail               end
North Walnut Street From State Road 32  East                See Ch. 77, Sch. II
                    to Penn Street
                    Merrimac
                    Subdivision
                    entrance on
                    pavement between
Warner Trail        grass covered       Middle of Medians   24 Hours
                    medians, 300 feet
                    north of
                    intersection with
                    146th Street
                    From Kingsbridge
Warrington Avenue   Boulevard to Stroud North               24 Hours
                    Lane
Wendover Avenue     From Tilbury Way to North               24 Hours
                    Petersfield Lane
Westfield Business                     Both Sides          24 Hours
Park Court
Whispering Oaks     From Thornapple
Drive               Drive to Ressler    South               24 Hours
                    Court
                    From Belle Crest
Willow Branch Way   Way to Hickory      North               24 Hours
                    Manor Lane
Windsor Estates     From Tomlinson Road North               24 Hours
Court               to end
Workington Circle   From Workington Way South               24 Hours
                    to end
                    From Kingsbridge
Workington Way      Boulevard to Adlo   North and West      24 Hours
                    Lane
Zenith Drive        From Oxbow Drive to North               24 Hours
                    Onward Drive
 
(Prior Code, § 58-354) (Ord. 23-31, passed 10-23-2023; Ord. 24-11, passed 2-12-
2024; Ord. 24-73, passed 12-23-2024)
SCHEDULE II. PARKING RESTRICTIONS ON SR 32.
GREENFIELD   #30-12-057
   NOTICE OF OFFICIAL ACTION OF INDIANA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
Whereas, under and by virtue of the Statutes of the State of Indiana relative
to traffic regulation, the Indiana Department of Transportation has the
authority and the duty to adopt regulations in the interest of the safety and
convenience of the traveling public using the highways, including streets in
cities and towns, under the control of said Department, be it known that the
following traffic regulation is hereby adopted.
Parking shall be controlled on SR 32 in Westfield, Hamilton County as follows:
“NO PARKING 2:00 A.M. TO 6:00 A.M.” on north side of SR 32 from the centerline
of Mill Street (Westlea Drive) to a point 252 feet east of the centerline of
Mill Street (Westlea Drive), a distance of approximately 252 feet.
“2 HOUR PARKING 6:00 A.M. TO 2:00 A.M.” on north side of SR 32 from the
centerline of Mill Street (Westlea Drive) to a point 252 feet east west of the
centerline of Mill Street (Westlea Drive), a distance of approximately 252
feet.
“NO PARKING 2:00 A.M. TO 6:00 A.M.” on south side of SR 32 from the centerline
of Mill Street (Westlea Drive) to a point 291 feet east of the centerline of
Mill Street (Westlea Drive), a distance of approximately 291 feet.
“2 HOUR PARKING 6:00 A.M. TO 2:00 A.M.” on south side of SR 32 from the
centerline of Mill Street (Westlea Drive) to a point 291 feet east of the
centerline of Mill Street (Westlea Drive), a distance of approximately 291
feet.
“NO PARKING” on north side of SR 32 from a point 252 feet east of the
centerline of Mill Street (Westlea Drive) to a point 55 feet east of the
centerline of Union Street, a distance of approximately 300 feet.
“NO PARKING” on south side of SR 32 from a point 291 feet east of the
centerline of Mill Street (Westlea Drive) to a point 246 feet east of the
centerline of Union Street, a distance of approximately 513 feet.
“NO PARKING 2:00 A.M. TO 6:00 A.M.” on the north side of SR 32 from a point 55
feet east of the centerline of Union Street to a point 25 feet west of the
centerline of Cherry Street, a distance of approximately 685 feet.
“2 HOUR PARKING 6:00 A.M. TO 2:00 A.M.” on the north side of SR 32 from a point
55 feet east of the centerline of Union Street to a point 25 feet west of the
centerline of Cherry Street, a distance of approximately 685 feet.
“NO PARKING 2:00 A.M. TO 6:00 A.M.” on the south side of SR 32 from a point 246
feet east of the centerline of Union Street to a point 25 feet west of the
centerline of Cherry Street, a distance of approximately 493 feet.
“2 HOUR PARKING 6:00 A.M. TO 2:00 A.M.” on the south side of SR 32 from a point
246 feet east of the centerline of Union Street to a point 25 feet west of the
centerline of Cherry Street, a distance of approximately 493 feet.
NOTE: This action amends and/or supersedes Official Action #3012050 and other
previous official actions at the aforementioned location.
Recommended for approval by: __________________________________________ 10/31/
12
                      Gerry J. Montgomery, District Traffic Engineer    Date
                        Indiana Department of Transportation
Approved by: _____________________________________________            10/31/12
          Brandye Hendrickson, District Deputy Commissioner             Date
            Indiana Department of Transportation
Date Installed: 1/15/13                  W.O. # 11144
Notes:
1.   All parking lines shall be four inch solid white painted lines. All other
pavement markings are existing unless otherwise noted.
2.   End and isolated parking stalls are 20 feet in length. All other parking
stalls are 22 feet unless otherwise noted.
3.   All curbs without adjacent parking shall be painted yellow.
4.   All work shall be performed In accordance with the most current Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices, and the most current Indiana Department of
Transportation Standard Specifications.
(Prior Code, § 58-354.1) (Ord. 23-31, passed 10-23-2023; Ord. 24-11, passed 2-
12-2024)
SCHEDULE III. PARKING ZONES RESTRICTIONS (SR 32).
   NOTICE OF OFFICIAL ACTION OF INDIANA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION FOR
OFFICIAL ACTION
FORM T-24   DATE: AUGUST 13, 2007
Page 1 of 1
   ROUTE: SR 32
                                          CITY OR COUNTY: Westfield
                                                          Hamilton County
File #: 07-022-E
TO: WESTFIELD CITY COUNCIL
   The Indiana Department of Transportation proposes to make certain traffic
improvements on SR 32 in Hamilton County.
   In order to facilitate the movements of traffic over the route and conform
with standards set up by the Indiana Department of Transportation, the
following traffic controls must be established as determined by proper
engineering investigation.
   It is agreed by the undersigned on behalf of the city that the following
controls are satisfactory.
   CONTROLS TO BE ESTABLISHED
Parking shall be controlled on SR 32 in the City of Westfield, Hamilton County
as follows:
“No Parking 2:00 A.M. to 6:00 A.M.” shall be established on the north and south
side of SR 32 for marked parking spaces between the east corners of Mill Street
(Westlea Drive) on SR 32 to the west corners of Cherry Street on SR 32, a
distance of approximately 2,150 feet.
“Two Hour Parking”, notwithstanding the foregoing parking restricting, two hour
parking shall be established on the north and south side of SR 32 for marked
parking spaces between the east corners of Mill Street (Westlea Drive) on SR 32
to the west corners of Cherry Street on SR 32, from the hours of 6:00 a.m. to
2:00 a.m., a distance of approximately 2,150 feet.
DATE  August 17, 2007                   SIGNED             
                                 TITLE  President
                                 TOWN  Westfield
State Form 22408R
Page 1 of 1
T-74: 07-022-E
(Prior Code, § 58-355) (Ord. 23-31, passed 10-23-2023; Ord. 24-11, passed 2-12-
2024)
SCHEDULE IV. TWO HOUR PARKING ZONES RESTRICTIONS.
Two-Hour Parking Zones Restrictions - Monday through Saturday
No Parking Monday through Sunday (2:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.)
                   Location of                           Property Address Block
Street             Restricted Parking    Side of Street  Zones
                   Zone
Jersey Street      Jersey Street Parking South           100—130 Jersey Street
                   Lot
North Union Street Between SR 32 to Penn East            100 Block of North
                   Street                                Union Street
North Union Street Between Oak Alley to  West            100 Block of N Union
                   Penn Street                           Street
Penn Street        Union Street to Elm   South           100—120 Penn Street
                   Alley
South Union Street Between SR 32 to      East and West   100 Block of South
                   Jersey Street                         Union Street
                                                         100 Block of West Main
State Road 32      Between Mill Street   North and South Street and 100 and 200
                   and Cherry Street                     Blocks of East Main
                                                         Street
 
(Prior Code, § 58-355.1) (Ord. 23-31, passed 10-23-2023; Ord. 24-11, passed 2-
12-2024)
SCHEDULE V. PARKING ZONES RESTRICTIONS MAP.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/14730de12463ece9c0ca8d78ef4669935cdf93c5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1513.jpg]
(Prior Code, § 58-355.2) (Ord. 23-31, passed 10-23-2023; Ord. 24-11, passed 2-
12-2024)
SCHEDULE VI. PARKING ZONES RESTRICTION PENALTIES.
   Penalties for two Hour Parking Restriction Zones
A.   Each violator of the restrictions and provisions of this traffic offense
shall pay a fine and penalty to the city, in the sum of $10, if paid within
seven days of the date of the time of issuance of the traffic offense.
Additional late fees shall be assessed based upon the following fine schedule:
   1.   Unpaid between eight and 14 days of the date of issuance: $20;
   2.   Unpaid between 15 and 21 days of the date of issuance: $40;
   3.   Unpaid between 22 and 28 days of the date of issuance: $60;
   4.   Unpaid between 29 and 35 days of the date of issuance: $80; and
   5.   Unpaid after 36 days of the date of issuance: $100.
B.   Any vehicle having three unpaid parking violations in excess of 60 days
after the date of issuance that is found in a parking zone restriction area is
subject to being restrained by having a wheel boot installed by employees of
the city, until such time as all outstanding fines and fees are paid in full.
In addition, there will be a $25 fee for the removal of the wheel boot. It is
the discretion of the Chief of Police to have motorcycles and/or any other
vehicles towed to safe storage in lieu of using the wheel boot. Said vehicle
will be released only after payment of all fines and fees are paid in full, and
any costs incurred by the city for the towing of the vehicle.
C.   Any attempt to evade this schedule by a motorist by moving their vehicle
from one parking restriction zone parking spot to another parking restriction
zone parking spot will be deemed in violation of this schedule.
D.   In the event that such a fine has not been paid within 90 days of the date
of the issuance, the violator may be docketed in the Hamilton County Courts and
prosecuted as a Class C infraction. In such event, the violator shall be
obligated to pay any costs imposed by reason of the docking with the Hamilton
County Courts in addition to the fines prescribed herein.
(Prior Code, § 58-355.3) (Ord. 23-31, passed 10-23-2023; Ord. 24-11, passed 2-
12-2024)
SCHEDULE VII. PARK STREET VALET ZONE AND 20 MINUTE PARKING.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/14730de12463ece9c0ca8d78ef4669935cdf93c5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1515.jpg]
(Ord. 24-11, passed 2-12-2024)
SCHEDULE VIII. RESERVED PARKING LOTS.
Name Location Restriction/Use Limitation
Name                   Location                  Restriction/Use Limitation
Asa Bales Park (North) 205 West Hoover Street    Park Patrons Only
Countryside Trail      17096 Oak Ridge Road      No Overnight Parking
Freedom Trail          500 Deer Walk Trace       Park Patrons Only
Liberty Park           16001 Westfield Boulevard Park Patrons Only
Quaker Park            17501 Dartown Road        Park Patrons Only
Raymond Worth Park     16301 Little Eagle Creek  Park Patrons Only
                       Avenue
Simon Moon Park        2710 East 171st Street    Park Patrons Only
 
(Prior Code, § 58-363) (Ord. 23-31, passed 10-23-2023; Ord. 24-11, passed 2-12-
2024)
SCHEDULE IX. NO PARKING LOCATIONS IN CITY PARKS.
 
Name             Location                 Restriction/Use Limitation
                                          No parking anytime in emergency turn
Freedom Trail    500 Deer Walk Trace      around lane or in front of paved
                                          access roads
Monon Trail Head 1155 East Greyhound Pass No parking anytime on Circle Drive
 
(Prior Code, § 58-364) (Ord. 23-31, passed 10-23-2023; Ord. 24-11, passed 2-12-
2024)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Adoption of state law
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Duties and responsibilities of animal owners
   
90.04   Vaccination of dogs, cats and ferrets
   
90.05   Cruelty, neglect and abandonment of animals
   
90.06   Animal bites and quarantine
   
90.07   Commercial animal establishments
   
90.08   Feral cats
   
90.09   Vicious animals
   
90.10   Disposition of dead animals
   
90.11   Restraint of animals; animals at large
   
90.12   Public nuisance animals
   
90.13   Report of vehicular collision with animal
   
90.14   Interfering with animal control officer
   
90.15   Confinement of female dogs and cats in heat
   
90.16   Injured animals; action required
   
90.17   Animal waste
   
90.18   Lost or stray animals
   
90.19   Wildlife
   
90.20   Animals in vehicles
   
90.21   Animal sacrifice
   
90.22   Mandatory sterilization of dogs and cars; exceptions; breeder’s permit
   
90.23   Service animals in public buildings
   
90.24   Permanent identification of dogs and cats required
   
90.25   Additional restriction on owners of dangerous or nuisance animals
   
90.26   Owner responsibility for animal attacks
   
90.27   Backyard breeders and puppy mills
   
90.28   Jurisdiction
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   All laws of the state which pertain to the regulation and control of
animals, including, but not limited to, their ownership, licensing, harboring,
abandonment, running at large, rabies control and quarantine, pursuit, capture,
confinement, the prevention and control of diseases of domestic animals, and
the active rules and regulations of the State Board of Health and unlawful acts
relating thereto which are not inconsistent with this chapter are made a part
or this chapter by reference.
   (B)   The sections of this chapter are not to replace state laws, but are to
be considered supplementary and in addition to the laws of the state and are to
be fully enforced where not inconsistent with those laws. Any violation of the
state statute which is an infraction by state law, is a violation under the
state statute.
(Prior Code, § 10-1) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. Desert any animal or leave any animals without making provisions
for long term care of that animal or to leave in a place without the expressed
permission of the property owner, custodian or tenant of the property. This
term does not include leaving an animal in a place that is temporarily vacated
for the protection of human life during a disaster.
   ACCLIMATED. The point at which an animal has adapted to a new temperature,
climate or environment. Factors such as body size and shape, hair coat, body
condition and the animal’s overall health greatly influence the time required
for an animal to acclimate to these high or low temperatures.
   ADULT DOG/CAT. Any dog or cat that is three months of age or older for the
purposes of rabies vaccinations/tags.
   ANIMAL. Every living non-human vertebrate creature.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person who is authorized to implement and
enforce city animal care and control ordinances as defined in state statues.
   ANIMAL CRUELTY. An intentional or malicious act(s) whereby unnecessary or
unjustifiable pain, suffering or death is caused.
   ANIMAL NEGLECT. Has the same definition as found in I.C. 35-46-3-0.5(6).
   ANIMAL HOARDING.
      (1)   Collecting animals and failing to provide them with adequate
shelter and care;
      (2)   Collecting dead animals that are not properly disposed of; and/or
      (3)   Collecting, housing or harboring animals in filthy, unsanitary
conditions that constitute a health hazard to the animals being kept, to the
individual(s) residing at the property, or to the animals or residents of an
adjacent property.
   AUCTION. A commercial animal establishment where animals are regularly
bought, sold, traded and the like through a bidding process; i.e., a flea
market.
   AUTHORIZED VETERINARIAN. Any person licensed or permitted to practice
veterinary medicine under the laws of the state, and having had no previous
judgements related to their practice of veterinary medicine.
   APPROVED BREEDERS. Referred to as HOBBY BREEDERS means persons who focus
their efforts on the health and betterment of the breed and operate with less
than 20 unaltered female dogs that are at least 12 months of age. APPROVED
BREEDERS shall follow the AKC’s Guidelines for Responsible Breeding including,
but not limited to:
      (1)   Provide adequate care, shelter, space and veterinary care to all
breeding dogs and puppies as defined in this chapter;
      (2)   Screen buyers to ensure they can afford appropriate care and
provide puppies a safe home;
      (3)   Require a purchase contract informing city residents of the
mandatory spay and neuter ordinance and free breeder’s permit option;
      (4)   Require the return to breeder policy should the purchaser be unable
to keep the puppy for any reason; and
      (5)   Obtain a breeder’s permit from the County Sheriff’s office.
   BACKYARD BREEDERS.
      (1)   Individuals who allow for the careless home breeding of more than
one female dog at a time;
      (2)   Individuals with less than 20 unaltered female dogs that are at
least 12 months of age, that do not adhere to good breeding and sale practices
or do not provide dogs and/or puppies adequate care as defined in this chapter;
      (3)   Individuals who sell un-weaned (under eight weeks old) and/or
diseased puppies;
      (4)   Individuals who breed more than one female dog, for commercial
reasons, that have not obtained a breeder’s permit from the County Sheriff’s
office; and
      (5)   This definition does not apply to humane societies, rescue groups
or foster homes.
   BAIT. Using an animal as a lure to provoke an attack upon that animal for
the purpose of dog fighting or to cause the intentional harm or death of that
animal.
   CARE (ADEQUATE AND HUMANE). Providing an animal with the following:
      (1)   Adequate food and water;
      (2)   Adequate shelter;
      (3)   Adequate space; and
      (4)   Adequate veterinary care, as defined in this chapter, necessary to
maintain the health of the animal with regard to its specific age, size,
species and breed.
   CIRCUS. A commercial animal establishment variety show featuring animals as
public entertainment.
   CITY. The City of Westfield.
   COLONY. A group of one or more feral cats.
   COLONY CARETAKER. An authorized person who provides food, water and shelter
for feral cats in a registered colony.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any pet shop, auction, flea market, riding
school or stable, pet grooming shop, zoological park, circus, kennel,
veterinary hospital or puppy mill as defined in this chapter.
   COMPETENT PERSON. A person possessing the ability and proficiency to
identify when an animal is in danger and/or exhibiting signs of suffering or
distress, as well as the ability to adequately intervene.
   DIRECT CONTROL. Immediate and continuous physical control of an animal
(excluding herding dogs; dogs in the process of hunting; police dogs; service
animals, dogs participating in a registered field trial, obedience trial, and
confirmation show and/or match) at all times such as by means of a fence,
leash, cord or chain of sufficient strength to restrain the animal. When an
animal is specifically trained to immediately respond to oral or visual
commands, the term DIRECT CONTROL includes oral or visual control while on
private property with permission of the property owner. Oral control shall at
all times prevent the animal from running at large or otherwise violating this
chapter.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A dog, cat or any other animal such as a rabbit, guinea
pig, lizard, iguana, hamster, ferret, mouse, snake, spider, bird or gerbil,
which may normally be held, sold or maintained as a pet. The City Council
reserves the right to amend this definition by adding or deleting animals as
from time to time determine to be an animal which has been domesticated.
   FERAL CAT. Any cat that has no apparent owner or identification and is wild,
untamed, unsocialized, unmanageable and unable to be approached or handled.
   FOOD (ADEQUATE). Providing the appropriate quantity of non-contaminated and
nutritionally adequate food, fed according to age, size, species and breed
requirements, which is sufficient to prevent starvation, malnutrition or risk
to the animal’s health. Garbage or spoiled/rancid food is not considered
ADEQUATE FOOD.
   GARBAGE. Includes, but is not limited to, animal or vegetable refuse, by-
product of a restaurant, kitchen or meat-/poultry-processing establishment,
spoiled/rancid food and refuse accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable
matter, liquid or otherwise that is normally discarded.
   GROOMING ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business, stationary or mobile, which
accepts private pets for bathing, clipping, dipping, pedicuring or other
related services, but not to include breeding, dentistry or overnight boarding.
   GUARD DOG/WATCH DOG. Any dog trained by a recognized training facility, as
defined in this chapter, for the purpose of protecting individuals from assault
and/or preventing property loss or damage.
   GUIDE DOG. A properly trained dog certified by a licensed training facility
that has an expertise in training dogs for physically impaired persons and that
is being used by a person to assist in that physical impairment.
   HARBORER/CAREGIVER. Any person who performs acts of providing care, shelter,
protection, restraint, refuge, food or nourishment in such a manner as to
control an animal’s activities.
   HUMANE SOCIETY. An incorporated organization that has a nonprofit status
with the Internal Revenue Service for which the central purpose is to provide
for the protection of animals.
   HUMANE TRAP. Any device used for capturing an animal without inflicting
injury, pain or suffering and which provides adequate ventilation for the
trapped animal.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The act of taking physical possession and control of an animal
by an animal control officer or other officer empowered to act by law and
transporting it to an animal control facility or humane society.
   IMMINENT DANGER. An immediate threat of harm.
   INHUMANE TRAP. Any device used for capturing an animal that may inflict
injury or pain; including, but not limited to, snares, leg traps or similar
devices.
   LIVESTOCK. Includes horses, cows, goats, pigs or any other four-legged
animal, excluding dogs and cats, used for pleasure or profit. Fowl are
expressly included within this definition.
   MANAGED COLONY. A colony of feral cats that are registered with the humane
society, or designee and is maintained by a colony caretaker using trap-neuter-
release (TNR).
   MONITORED. The animal is controlled by means of a leash or other device held
by a competent person, or is sufficiently near the owner or handler as to be
under his or her direct control as defined in this chapter, and is obedient to
that person’s command; is on or within a vehicle being driven or parked; or is
confined to the owner or handler’s property and within visual range of a
competent person.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, harbors, keeps, feeds, maintains, has lawful
possession of, or knowingly causes or knowingly permits an animal to be
harbored or kept or has an animal in his or her care or who permits an animal
to remain on or about his or her premises for 30 consecutive days or more;
provided, however, this shall not include a person hired or acting as custodian
of the animal for its owner, and shall not include colony caretakers of
registered colonies of feral cats.
   PET SHOP. A commercial animal establishment engaging in the retail sale of
animals.
   POLICE OFFICER. Any law enforcement officer empowered to make arrests or
cause to be issued summonses in the city.
   PROVOKE. To cause an occurrence or make something happen resulting in an
animal becoming angry or violent.
   PUPPY. Any dog that is under the age of three months for the purposes of
rabies vaccinations/tags.
   PUPPY MILL. Any sized commercial animal establishment that breeds more than
one female dog at a time and does not adhere to good breeding, care and sale
practices. Different than a back yard breeder, PUPPY MILLS are commercial
operations that:
      (1)   Sell puppies without screening of the purchaser;
      (2)   Sell un-weaned (under eight weeks of age) or diseased puppies;
      (3)   Isolate breeding dogs from human interaction in unhealthy, often
deplorable, conditions;
      (4)   House breeding dogs in crates, kennels, trailers, garages, barns
and the like, without access to light or exercise; or
      (5)   Do not provide adequate shelter, food, water, space or veterinary
care as defined in this chapter.
   RECOGNIZED TRAINING FACILITY. Any person holding a state kennel license and
a business license for either of the purposes described in this definition.
   RIDING SCHOOL OR STABLE. A commercial pet establishment that has available
for hire, boarding or riding instruction any horse, burro, donkey, pony or
mule.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. any animal that leaves or strays from the land owned,
rented or leased by the owner or possessor of the animal or that the animal is
not under direct control as defined in this section.
   SHELTER (ADEQUATE). Providing protective cover for a domestic animal
appropriate for its species and offering adequate space to ensure the animal’s
safety and good health. ADEQUATE SHELTER should:
      (1)   Be structurally sound, maintained in good repair, and constructed
with material that protects the animal from injury;
      (2)   Allow the animal easy access in and out;
      (3)   Have a weather resistant top, bottom and sides;
      (4)   Have an opening on no more than one side that allows the animal to
remain dry and have a floor that is level, dry and raised, if necessary, to
prevent water/snow from entering the structure;
      (5)   Have a solid roof sloped away from the entrance, be free from
cracks, depressions and rough areas that might be conducive to insects,
parasites and other pests;
      (6)   Be of adequate size to allow the animal to stand erect with the
animal’s head up, turn around easily, and to sit and lie down in a comfortable
and normal position;
      (7)   When the temperature is 80F or higher, or whenever appropriate for
a particular dog’s breed, age, body and health condition, offer adequate shade
during daylight hours-provided by trees, a tarp or other means that prevents
overheating or discomfort to the animal; and
      (8)   When the temperature is 40F or lower, or whenever appropriate for a
particular dog’s breed, age, body and health condition, include sufficient, dry
bedding material or other means of protection from the weather that will allow
the animal to retain body heat when the weather is colder than what an animal
of that breed and condition can comfortably tolerate.
   SPACE (ADEQUATE). Any area in which an animal is confined should be suitable
for the animal’s species, size, age and breed, allowing the animal to turn
about freely, stand, sit, lie and move comfortably and in a normal position.
Sick and injured animals should be confined as directed by a veterinarian.
   TUFTS ANIMAL CARE AND CONDITION SCALES (TACC). Scales developed for use by
veterinarians, animal control officers, police and cruelty investigators by
Tufts Center for Animals and Public Policy for the purpose of assessing body
condition, weather and environmental safety, and physical care in dogs.
   UNSANITARY CONDITIONS. Animal housing or quarters, including exercise areas,
that are contaminated by health hazards, irritants, items or conditions that
endanger or pose a risk to an animal’s health, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Excessive animal waste, garbage and trash;
      (2)   Standing water or mud;
      (3)   Rancid/contaminated food or water;
      (4)   Fumes, foul or noxious odor, air, hazardous chemicals or poisons;
      (5)   Decaying material;
      (6)   Uncontrolled parasite or rodent infestation; or
      (7)   Areas that contain nails, screws, broken glass, broken boards,
pits, poisons, sharp implements or other items that could cause injury, illness
or death to an animal.
   VENTILATION(ADEQUATE). Fresh air sufficient to provide for the health of an
animal.
   VETERINARY CARE (ADEQUATE).
      (1)   Care provided under the direction of a licensed veterinarian and
includes medical care necessary to maintain an animal’s health and prevent
unnecessary suffering.
      (2)   Adequate care is based on age, species and breed, and the potential
for a disease or condition to spread to other animals or humans, including, but
not limited to:
         (a)   Ongoing infections;
         (b)   Infestation of parasites;
         (c)   Any disease; or
         (d)   Any medical condition or injury where withholding or neglecting
to provide such care would endanger the health or welfare of the animal.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. A commercial animal establishment maintained and
operated by a licensed veterinarian for surgery, disease diagnosis and
treatment of disease and injuries of animals.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that attacks, bites or injures human beings,
pets, companion animals or livestock or which, because of temperament,
conditioning or training, has a known propensity to attack, bite or injure
human beings, pets, companion animals or livestock. No dog may be declared
VICIOUS if a threat, injury or damage was sustained by a person who, at the
time, was committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises
occupied by the owner or keeper of the dog or was teasing, tormenting, abusing
or assaulting the dog or has, in the past, been observed or reported to have
teased, tormented, abused or assaulted the dog or was committing or attempting
to commit a crime. The definition shall not be construed to include dogs that
are part of a governmental organization or a trained guard dog in performance
of its duties.
   WATER (ADEQUATE). Water that is clean, fresh, potable water sufficient to
prevent dehydration, properly sustain health, and prevent significant risk to
the animal’s health. Snow, ice, rancid or contaminated water are excluded from
the definition of ADEQUATE WATER.
   WILD ANIMAL. An animal that lives in the wild or is not domesticated
(excluding feral cats). This chapter is not intended to regulate wild and/or
exotic animals. Regulation of wild and or exotic animals is governed through
312 I.A.C. Article 9, Fish and Wildlife.
   ZOOLOGICAL PARK. A commercial animal establishment displaying or exhibiting,
without the primary purpose of selling, one or more species of non-domesticated
animals operated by a person or governmental agency.
(Prior Code, § 10-2) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021)
§ 90.03 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF ANIMAL OWNERS.
   (A)   Any owner of an animal, including livestock, kept in the city shall
see that such animal has access to adequate food, water and space as defined in
this chapter, and that the following conditions; if applicable; are met:
      (1)   Animals are kept in a safe, clean, sanitary and healthy manner and
are not confined so as to be forced to stand, sit or lie in its own excrement.
The person responsible for the animal shall regularly, and as often as
necessary, maintain all animal areas or areas of animal contact to prevent odor
or health and sanitation problems;
      (2)   Dog and cat owners must ensure their pets have access to adequate
shelter as defined in this chapter;
      (3)   Dog and cat owners must ensure their pets are current on all
required vaccinations including rabies as well as distemper and parvovirus
inoculations;
      (4)   Animals are protected against abuse, cruelty, neglect or any other
mistreatment;
      (5)   Animals receive adequate veterinary care as defined in this
chapter, and if diseased or exhibiting symptoms of disease, receives proper
medical care and is segregated from other animals so as to prevent transmittal
of the disease;
      (6)   Animals are maintained in compliance with all applicable federal,
state and local laws and all regulations respecting animal care and control as
are adopted by the city;
      (7)   Every owner of every animal kept in the city shall see that such
animal shall have proper and adequate food that is nutritionally appropriate
for the species in adequate amounts to maintain good health, fresh potable
drinking water, shelter and ventilation, including quarters that are protected
from excessive heat and cold and are of sufficient size to permit the animal to
exercise and move about freely; and
      (8)   Animals shall not be tethered by use of a choke collar.
   (B)   In addition to the general requirements of the duties and
responsibilities of animal owners in this section, every owner or keeper of an
animal kept in the city (excluding livestock) shall see that:
      (1)   Animals kept outdoors have access to adequate shelter, food, water
and space, as defined in this chapter, in all weather conditions; and
      (2)   In accordance to the Tufts Animal Care and Condition Scales, when
the temperature is:
         (a)   At or below 40°F, or whenever appropriate for a particular dog’s
breed, age, body, and health condition, animals must have access to adequate
shelter, food, water and space, including adequate, dry bedding material or
other means of protection from the weather that will allow the animal to retain
body heat when the weather is colder than what an animal of that breed and
condition can comfortably tolerate, or, they must have continued and
uninterrupted access to a climate controlled facility;
         (b)   At or above 80°F, or whenever appropriate for a particular dog’s
breed, age, body and health condition, animals must have access to adequate
shelter, food, water and space, including adequate shade during daylight hours-
provided by trees, a tarp or other means that prevents overheating or
discomfort to the animal, or, they must have continued and uninterrupted access
to a climate-controlled facility,
      (3)   In extreme weather conditions and temperatures, including a heat
advisory, wind chill warning or tornado warning that has been issued by local,
state or national authority, animals must be monitored by a competent person
and have access to adequate shelter, food, water and space, including adequate
bedding and/or shade as described in this section, or, continued and
uninterrupted access to a climate controlled facility.
      (4)   Cases will be investigated by law enforcement on an individual
basis using the Tufts Animal Care and Condition Scales to determine the proper
resources and care necessary to ensure each animal’s safety and well-being
based on its breed, age, body and health condition, and acclimation to the
environment and weather conditions.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit or restrict the use of
livestock guard dogs, livestock working dogs, or dogs that are engaged in
lawful hunting activities, if the dogs are accompanied and monitored by the
owner or custodian of the dogs.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall restrict an owner/keeper from allowing
an animal to be outside for reasonable amounts of time during extreme
temperatures to relieve itself and exercise if the animal is being monitored by
a competent person.
(Prior Code, § 10-3) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 VACCINATION OF DOGS, CATS AND FERRETS.
   (A)   See I.A.C. Title 345: Indiana State Board of Animal Health.
   (B)   All dogs and cats three months of age and older must be vaccinated
against rabies. The rabies vaccination of a dog, cat or ferret shall be
maintained by ongoing revaccination of the animal as follows.
      (1)   Ferrets shall be initially vaccinated and revaccinated within 12
months of the prior vaccination.
      (2)   Dogs and cats that are vaccinated with a rabies vaccine the label
of which recommends annual boosters shall be revaccinated within 12 months of
the prior vaccination.
      (3)   Dog and cats that are vaccinated with a rabies vaccine the label of
which recommends a booster one year later and triennially thereafter shall be
revaccinated within 36 months of each vaccination thereafter.
   (C)   The owner of the animal is responsible for procuring the vaccinations
required by this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-4) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 CRUELTY, NEGLECT AND ABANDONMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   A person commits animal cruelty under this section when he or she:
      (1)   Willfully or maliciously kills, abuses, maims, tortures or
disfigures any animal or willfully or maliciously administers poison to any
animal or exposes any poisonous substance with the intent that the poisonous
substance shall be taken and swallowed by such animal;
      (2)   Overloads, overworks, torments or intentionally deprives an animal
of its necessary food, water or shelter resulting in preventable suffering or
death;
      (3)   Beats, mutilates, uses for the purposes of bait as defined in this
chapter, or causes said actions to occur; or
      (4)   Engages in any of the following:
         (a)   Owns, possesses, keeps or trains any animal with the intent that
such animal shall be engaged in an exhibition of fighting;
         (b)   Builds, makes, maintains or keeps a pit on premises owned or
occupied by the animal owner or allows a pit to be built, made, maintained or
kept on said premises for the purposes of an exhibition of animal fighting;
         (c)   Encourages, instigates, promotes or assists in an exhibition of
animal fighting or intentional combat; or
         (d)   Charges admission; is an assistant, umpire or participant; or is
present as a spectator to any exhibition of animal fighting or combat.
   (B)   A person who owns or confines any animal and fails to supply it with
adequate shelter, food, water, space or veterinary care, as defined in this
chapter, with such acts committed without malicious or punitive intent commits
animal neglect under this section.
   (C)   A person who abandons an animal in a residence or other owned property
or tethers an animal outside for the purposes of abandonment at a residence,
place of business, or the Humane Society for Hamilton County commits animal
abandonment under this section.
   (D)   Any animal control officer or other officer empowered to act by law
may impound any animal found to be the victim of animal cruelty, animal neglect
or animal abandonment.
   (E)   Nothing in the section shall be deemed to prohibit the humane
slaughter of livestock or poultry in conformance with all applicable rules and
regulations of the State Board of Health and the United States Food and Drug
Administration.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit hunting or fishing, as
permitted by the law of the state and the rules and regulations of the State
Department of Natural Resources.
   (G)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of commercially sold
poisons for the control of rats, mice, groundhogs, moles or other similar
rodents as long as the person using the poisons uses reasonable care to ensure
that neither domestic animals nor livestock are exposed to the poisons.
(Prior Code, § 10-5) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 ANIMAL BITES AND QUARANTINE.
   (A)   Every case of a human bitten by a domestic or wild animal shall be
reported promptly to the Police Department. The person owning any animal
reported to have bitten any person shall keep such animal quarantined not less
than ten days. Any animal showing signs of illness must be taken to the
veterinarian of the Humane Society of Hamilton County for quarantine and
notification to the Police Department must be made by the custodian of the
signs of illness.
   (B)   It is the duty of the person bitten or the person’s parent or guardian
to make the report in conformance with 410 I.A.C. 1-2.3-52, as amended. Law
enforcement K-9 dogs are exempted from this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-6) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021)
§ 90.07 COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Standards for commercial animal establishments and animal care
facilities include all of the following:
      (1)   The establishment must be operated in such a manner as not to
constitute a public nuisance;
      (2)   The establishment shall provide an isolation area for animals that
are sick or diseased to be placed in so as not to spread disease to healthy
animals;
      (3)   All animals must be kept caged within a secure enclosure that
provides for adequate space as defined in this chapter, or they must be under
the control of the owner at all times;
      (4)   The establishment must provide the level of care provided for in
the city’s animal care ordinances to all animals kept on the premises;
      (5)   The establishment shall not engage in any acts of cruelty,
mistreatment or neglect as defined in this chapter;
      (6)   The establishment will not sell animals that are un-weaned or
diseased; and
      (7)   The establishment shall permit the animal control officer to
inspect at any and all times the premises where the animals are kept.
   (B)   An animal care facility and/or commercial animal establishment
includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Auction;
      (2)   Shelter;
      (3)   Animal daycare;
      (4)   Breeding or boarding facility;
      (5)   Humane society;
      (6)   Animal training facility;
      (7)   Flea market;
      (8)   Circus;
      (9)   Riding school or stable;
      (10)   Veterinary hospital;
      (11)   Zoological park;
      (12)   Pet shop;
      (13)   Pet grooming shop;
      (14)   Kennels; and
      (15)   Permanent fairgrounds.
   (C)   All commercial animal establishments, other than a circus temporarily
located within the city for less than ten days per year, shall be located at a
permanent building or facility and shall be permitted at that location by a
special use permit or other applicable zoning permit, commercial breeding, and/
or County Sheriff’s office breeder’s permit, where applicable.
   (D)   The city adopts 9 C.F.R. §§ 3.1 through 3.19 as the standards for
operation and inspection of kennels. The Hamilton County Sheriff’s Office, or
the sheriff’s designee, shall be the agency authorized to inspect kennels.
   (E)   Puppy mills, as defined in this chapter, will not be permitted in the
city.
(Prior Code, § 10-7) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 FERAL CATS.
   (A)   The city may establish a fund, provide services or an approved
assistance program to offset the costs of trapping, neutering and vaccinating
captured feral cats that can be returned to an appropriate, controlled,
protected and registered colony site. Caregivers for such colonies, whether one
or several animals, may be aided by the city, county or the approved assistance
program in providing traps for the capture of the cat, transportation to a
spay/neuter facility and offsetting costs, to the extent that funding is
available.
   (B)   Each feral cat colony will be registered by the caregivers with Low
Cost Spay Neuter Clinic, Inc. which will maintain current and historical
information on caregivers, education for new caregivers, and assistance for
persons found in violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Approved assistance programs for feral cat colonies within the city
will exist only with the approval of the homeowner or neighborhood association,
if applicable, in which the colonies are to exist.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a person to provide food, water or shelter to
a colony of feral cats, unless;
      (1)   The colony is an approved managed colony, registered with Low Cost
Spay Neuter Clinic, Inc.;
      (2)   The food, water or shelter is provided in conjunction with the
implementation of trap, neuter and return methodology as set forth below; and
      (3)   The caregiver is using ear tipping on feral cats in order to be
identified as a spayed or neutered and a vaccinated member of a managed colony.
   (E)   An approved feral cat colony caretaker, in order to obtain control of
the feral cat population in the city shall:
      (1)   Humanely trap and sterilize (spay/neuter) and left ear-tip all cats
that can be captured by an authorized veterinarian;
      (2)   Vaccinate, as required by law, all cats that can be captured:
         (a)   Against rabies, preferably with a three-year vaccine; and
         (b)   Any other infectious disease as mandated by law.
      (3)   Colony caretakers shall have a licensed veterinarian evaluate the
health of all trapped feral cats. Seriously ill or injured cats with no
reasonable prognosis for humane rehabilitation for survival outdoors will be
humanely euthanized;
      (4)   Release all non-feral cats to animal control or humane society for
adoption or placement in accordance with the law;
      (5)   Make every attempt to remove kittens from the colony by eight weeks
of age for domestication, spay/neuter, and placement; and
      (6)   Make every attempt to remove sick or injured cats from the colony
for immediate veterinary care or humane euthanasia.
   (F)   Colony caretakers shall:
      (1)   Abide by the standard guidelines devised by this chapter, animal
control or its designee, regarding the provisions of food, water and shelter
and veterinary care for the cats within the managed colony;
      (2)   Ensure responsibility and arrangements for feeding the cat colony
regularly throughout the year, including weekends, holidays and vacations of
the feral cat caregiver; and
      (3)   Maintain proof of sterilization, vaccination, tattoo or implant and
medical records from a licensed veterinarian at all times. These records must
be provided to the Humane Society, Low Cost Spay Neuter Clinic Inc., or law
enforcement upon request.
   (G)   Any law enforcement authority may impound feral cats in violation of
this section. Any feral cat impounded by law enforcement authority that bears
an appropriate ear-tipping indicating it belongs to a managed colony may, at
the discretion of law enforcement, be returned to its managed colony unless
illness or injury present an imminent danger to public health or safety.
(Prior Code, § 10-8) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any animal who has been the subject of a prior judgement in which a
court made a finding that the animal was dangerous, violent or vicious, will be
considered an animal deemed vicious for purposes of this section.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, accompany or be
responsible for the presence of any dog, cat or other animal deemed vicious on
the streets or public places of the city or allow the animal to run on the
premises of another at any time. Upon impounding an animal deemed vicious for
any reason, the animal control officer may, for reasons of public safety,
retain the animal at the impoundment facility until disposition by the
appropriate court.
   (C)   The following additional precautions shall be taken by the owners,
possessors, or custodians of animals deemed vicious.
      (1)   In addition to the requirements in §
90.11 (Restraint of animals; animals at large), the owner of a dog deemed
vicious who maintains said dog out-of-doors shall fence a portion of the
property with a second perimeter or area fence. Within this perimeter or area
fence, said animal must be humanely confined inside a pen or kennel of adequate
size. The pen or kennel may not share common fencing with the area or perimeter
fence. The kennel or pen must have secure sides and a secure top attached to
all sides. The sides must either be buried two feet into the ground, sunken
into a concrete pad, or securely attached to a wire bottom. The gate to the
kennel shall be of the inward-opening type and shall be kept locked except when
tending to the animal’s needs such as cleaning the kennel or providing food and
water.
      (2)   Whenever a dog deemed vicious is outside of its enclosure as
provided for in this division (C), but on the owner’s property, it must be
attended to by the owner and restrained by a secure collar and leash of
sufficient strength to prevent escape. The leash shall be no longer than ten
feet, and the animal must be kept at least 15 feet within the perimeter
boundaries of the property unless the perimeter boundary is securely fenced.
      (3)   No dog deemed vicious shall be chained, tethered, or otherwise tied
to any inanimate object such as a tree, post or building, outside of its own
enclosure as provided for in this division (C).
      (4)   The owner shall post the premises with a clearly visible warning
sign that displays a brightly-colored and clearly visible warning symbol that
informs children of the presence of a vicious dog.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to law enforcement dogs.
(Prior Code, § 10-9) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 DISPOSITION OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   A person finding a dead domestic animal or large undomesticated animal
or the surviving young of either within the city shall call the Police
Department. It is the responsibility of the Police Department to notify the
appropriate authorities, be it the Highway Department/animal control, in a
timely manner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to allow the body, or parts thereof,
of any dead animal to be kept, held or disposed of in violation of this
section, as follows.
      (1)   No person who operates a slaughterhouse, butcher shop or other
place in the city shall permit any parts of offal of dead animals that are not
fit and intended for use as food to accumulate or be kept on such premises for
over 24 hours after being received, or after the death of such animal.
      (2)   No person shall skin, dismember, dissect, cut up or dispose of the
body of a dead animal, or any parts thereof in the city, unless the person is
regularly engaged in such business of killing and disposing of such animals for
use as food or otherwise, and is so authorized by law, or does so for the
person’s own use.
      (3)   No person shall possess, keep, use or dispose of anywhere in the
city, a dead animal or parts thereof, or offal of a live animal in any manner
that creates offensive odors or sights, or constitutes a public nuisance which
affects health and comfort in any respect.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the legal handling and
processing of game harvested under legal hunting or fishing practices, as
permitted by the law of the state and the rules and regulations of the State
Department of Natural Resources.
(Prior Code, § 10-10) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 RESTRAINT OF ANIMALS; ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor of any animal to allow
such animal to run at large, whether wearing a collar and tag or not, within
the city. Any and all such animals found running at large, whether wearing a
collar and tag or not, shall be immediately impounded by officers of the animal
control unit or any police officer. The officers may pursue the animal onto
private property to effect capture of such animal.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every owner or custodian of any animal to
exercise reasonable care and take all necessary steps and precautions to
protect other people, property and animals from injuries or damage which might
result from the animal’s behavior. If the owner or custodian of any animal is a
minor, the parent or guardian of such minor shall be jointly responsible for
the minor’s violation of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every owner or custodian of any animal to
ensure that the animal is kept under restraint and that reasonable care and
precautions are taken to prevent the animal from leaving the real property
limits of its owner, possessor or custodian, and ensure that it is:
      (1)   Securely and humanely enclosed within a house, building, fence, pen
or other enclosure out of which it cannot climb, dig, jump or otherwise escape
on its own volition; and that such enclosure is securely locked at any time the
animal is left unattended;
      (2)   Securely and humanely restrained by chain, cable or trolley, or
other tether of sufficient strength to prevent escape; and
      (3)   On a leash and under the direct control of a competent person while
on public property or property open to the public; or off a leash and obedient
to that person’s command and that person is present with the animal any time it
is not restrained as provided for in division (C)(1) or (C)(2) above while on
the owner’s property or areas designated as dog parks.
   (D)   The chaining of dogs is discouraged, but if it is done, the following
is required.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any animal to be permanently tethered
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.; or to tether or confine an
animal at a vacant structure or premises for any purpose or time when it is not
monitored by a competent person who is present at the property for the duration
of such tethering or confinement.
      (2)   The animal must have shelter from the weather, yet free from
becoming entangled with the tether. The animal must have access to the shelter
for the duration it is tethered. Adequate shelter must be kept and maintained
in accordance with the definition provided in §
90.02.
      (3)   The tether must be at least 12 feet in length with operational
swivels on both ends. If the dog is attached to a trolley system, the running
line must be at least 12 feet in length and the tether length must be greater
than the height of the running line.
      (4)   The animal shall not be tethered by use of a choke collar nor by
any rope, chain or cord directly attached to the animal’s neck. The tether must
be not of a weight heavy enough to cause physical damage to the animal’s neck
or body.
      (5)   The tether must be attached in a manner so that it cannot wrap
around vertical items such as a barrel, pole or tree. It must be able to move
freely in all directions.
   (E)   The owner or custodian of any guard dog or watchdog must confine such
dog within a perimeter fence and meet the following conditions.
      (1)   The fence shall be sufficient to prevent the dog’s escape, with all
points of ingress and egress securely locked at all times.
      (2)   A beware of dog sign shall be conspicuously displayed on each
exterior side of the enclosure for each 50 feet of enclosure, with a minimum of
two, as well as a sign on each ingress or egress point to the enclosure. Signs
shall be a minimum of ten inches high and 14 inches long.
   (F)   Exceptions to this section include:
      (1)   The animal is involved in a scheduled dog show or obedience
demonstration or trial, or is legally involved in hunting or retrieving game
animals;
      (2)   The animal is a certified service animal providing assistance to
its handler; or
      (3)   The animal is a public safety K-9 unit working in an official
capacity.
(Prior Code, § 10-11) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMALS.
   A public nuisance animal shall mean and include any animal that:
   (A)   Is repeatedly found at large;
   (B)   Damages the property of anyone other than the owner;
   (C)   Has been deemed vicious by prior finding of a court;
   (D)   Attacks without provocation;
   (E)   Excessively makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited to,
continued and repeated howling, barking, whining or other utterances causing
unreasonable disturbance or discomfort to neighbors or others in close
proximity to the premises where the animal is kept;
   (F)   Creates unsanitary conditions or offensive and objectionable odors in
enclosures or surroundings and thereby creates unreasonable disturbance or
discomfort to neighbors or others in close proximity to the premises where the
animal is kept; or
   (G)   Is not being kept in conformity with city zoning resolutions.
(Prior Code, § 10-12) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 REPORT OF VEHICULAR COLLISION WITH ANIMAL.
   A person whose vehicle causes injury or death to a domestic or wild animal
in the city shall immediately notify the animal’s owner, if known, or a local
law enforcement agency, together with a description of the animal struck, the
location of the striking and an estimate as to the condition of the animal
after being struck. Such person shall not be required to report his or her
name, as the only purpose of this requirement is to aid the stricken animal and
notify its owner, if any.
(Prior Code, § 10-13) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 INTERFERING WITH ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful to interfere with any animal control officer or other
officer empowered to act by law, to take or attempt to take any animal from the
city or county vehicle used to transport the animal, to take or attempt to take
any animal from the animal control shelter or impounding area.
(Prior Code, § 10-14) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.15 CONFINEMENT OF FEMALE DOGS AND CATS IN HEAT.
   The owner or keeper of any female dog or cat in heat kept in the city shall
confine the animal within a secure enclosure and in such a manner as to prevent
it from becoming a nuisance and in such a manner so as to prevent conception
except during planned breeding; or tether any un-sterilized dog for any period
of time unless the dog is in visual range of a competent person who is outside
with the dog and is done so in accordance with §
90.11 (Restraint of animals; animals at large).
(Prior Code, § 10-15) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 INJURED ANIMALS; ACTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person injuring any animal by any means
to fail to notify immediately the owner of the animal or the Police Department.
   (B)   Notification shall include the location and description of the animal
and the condition of the animal if known.
(Prior Code, § 10-16) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 ANIMAL WASTE.
   The owner of every animal shall be responsible for the removal of any feces
deposited by his or her animal on public property, public walks, public parks,
beaches, recreation areas or private property of others. Owners of service dogs
may be exempted from this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-17) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 LOST OR STRAY ANIMALS.
   A person finding a stray animal is to notify the Humane Society within 48
hours. At the discretion of the Humane Society, the animal may be kept by the
finder and a found pet report left with the Department, to enable the finder an
opportunity to return the animal to its rightful owner. Upon demand by the
Humane Society, any found animal will be surrendered and held for a minimum of
seven days before a disposition is made. The Humane Society is then required to
hold the animal for a period of seven days beginning the day the animal is
brought to the facility. If after the seven-day period the animal remains
unclaimed by its rightful owner, the animal becomes the property of the Humane
Society. A person finding an animal is obligated to comply with all rules and
regulations of this chapter pertaining to humane care and treatment of animals,
while the animal is in custody awaiting return to its actual owner. With the
exception of the Humane Society, the finder will be considered the found
animal’s owner for the purpose of this section only after the animal is in the
finder’s custody for 30 continuous days.
(Prior Code, § 10-18) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 WILDLIFE.
   For provisions on wildlife, see I.A.C. title 312: Natural Resources
Commission, Article 9: Fish and Wildlife.
(Prior Code, § 10-19) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021)
§ 90.20 ANIMALS IN VEHICLES.
   No animal shall be left unattended in a vehicle when the conditions in that
vehicle would constitute a health hazard to the animal (extreme heat or cold).
No animal shall be transported on public property in any non-passenger
compartment of a vehicle unless confined in an appropriate manner intended to
prevent the animal from jumping from the vehicle or being thrown from the
vehicle in an accident or rapid stop or other use of the vehicle which could
cause injury to the pet, any person, or property. No animal shall be
transported in the trunk of any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 10-20) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 ANIMAL SACRIFICE.
   (A)   No person shall engage in, participate in, assist in or perform animal
sacrifice. No person shall own, keep, possess or harbor any animal with the
purpose or intention of using such animal for animal sacrifice. No person shall
knowingly sell, offer for sale, give away or transfer any animal to any person
when he or she knows or believes that person intends to use such animal for
animal sacrifice. This section does not prohibit slaughter of animals for
agriculture purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit, abridge or in
any way hinder the religious freedom of any person or group. Notwithstanding
any other provision of this act, in order to protect freedom of religion,
ritual slaughter and the handling or other preparation of livestock for ritual
slaughter are exempted from the terms of this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-21) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 MANDATORY STERILIZATION OF DOGS AND CARS; EXCEPTIONS; BREEDER’S PERMIT.
   (A)   Each dog and cat over the age of six months which is kept in the city
shall be sterilized and rendered incapable of reproducing by a licensed
veterinarian, with the following exceptions as long as the requirements noted
herein are met:
      (1)   A free breeder’s permit has been secured according to the process
noted in this section;
      (2)   Current pets are receiving adequate care, shelter and veterinary
care as defined in this chapter;
      (3)   The animal’s health or a special medical condition puts them at
risk for complications due to surgery according to an authorized veterinarian;
      (4)   The owner is considered an approved breeder as defined in this
chapter or has obtained the appropriate special use permit from the Hamilton
County Zoning Board; or
      (5)   The owner has not surrendered an animal(s) to the Humane Society
for Hamilton County or allowed an animal to run at large.
   (B)   A free breeder’s permit shall be obtained by the following
individuals:
      (1)   Any person who intentionally causes or accidentally allows the
breeding of a dog or cat they own;
      (2)   An approved breeder commercial animal establishment as defined in
this chapter; and
      (3)   Any person owning or having custody of a dog or cat which is older
than six months of age, which has not been sterilized for any reason other than
the exceptions noted herein.
   (C)   Such breeder’s permit shall:
      (1)   Allow the nonsterilization of animals owned by the permittee for
one 12-month period after the date of issuance;
      (2)   Allow the nonsterilization of animals owned by the permittee for
the life of the pet with the issuance of a letter from an authorized
veterinarian stating the animal’s health or a special medical condition puts
them at risk for complications due to surgery; and
      (3)   Require the holder of the permit to furnish the Division of Animal
Control with information on the birth of each litter of dogs and cats as may be
required by the division to register the litter and be assigned a letter number
for each litter.
   (D)   The holder of a breeder’s permit shall:
      (1)   Transmit to the new owner or buyer the litter number of the animal
acquired and the breeder’s permit number in order that the new owner has
assurance and proof that the animal was legally bred;
      (2)   Immunize all dogs and cats offered for sale, trade or other
compensation or for free give away against the most common contagious diseases;
for dogs against canine distemper, hepatitis and parvovirus and for cats
against feline rhinotracheitis, calicivirus and panleukopenia;
      (3)   Not offer a puppy or kitten under the age of eight weeks for sale,
trade or other compensation or for free giveaway; and
      (4)   Furnish a warrant of health for a period of not less than one week
with the recommendation to have the animal examined by a licensed veterinarian
for each animal sold, traded or given away.
   (E)   Each breeder’s permit shall be obtained from the County Division of
Animal Control or the County Sheriff’s office at no cost to the pet owner or
approved breeder on an annual basis.
   (F)   Each holder of a valid breeder’s permit shall register additional
litters with the Hamilton County Division of Animal Control. Each additional
litter registration shall comply with the same requirements as the original
breeder’s permit.
(Prior Code, § 10-22) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 SERVICE ANIMALS IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No person may enter a city building when accompanied by an animal
unless authorized by this section.
   (B)   Before a person accompanied by an animal is permitted into the city
buildings, any authorized security person or other city department head or his
or her designee, shall make inquiry as to:
      (1)   Whether the animal is required because of a disability; and
      (2)   Whether the animal has been trained to perform specific work or
tasks to assist the person with their disability.
   (C)   Upon receiving a satisfactory affirmative answer to the above
questions, the animal may accompany its handler into the part of the city
building available to the general public.
   (D)   The animal must be under the handler’s control by a harness, leash or
other tether.
   (E)   If the individual is unable to use a harness, leash or tether because
use would interfere with the safe and effective performance or task by the
handler, the animal must otherwise be under the control by voice control
signals or other effective means of the disabled individual, as approved by the
city department head or his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § 10-23) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 PERMANENT IDENTIFICATION OF DOGS AND CATS REQUIRED.
   (A)   A person who owns a dog or cat in the city shall ensure that each dog
or cat owned by that person bears a permanent means of identification at all
times, such that the owner of a lost or stolen dog or cat can be ascertained
quickly and easily.
   (B)   The means of identification required by this section shall be in
addition to any tags required to be worn by dogs or cats by state law or the
provisions of this code, and shall be either by means of:
      (1)   A microchip implanted in the dog or cat or animal which bears a
registered identification number, and which can be read by a standard microchip
scanner; or
      (2)   A permanent tag attached to a durable collar worn at all times by
the dog or cat, and bearing the owner’s current name and telephone number.
   (C)   Each veterinarian or other person in the city who implants microchips
as contemplated in this section shall, at an interval of not less than once
each month, send to the County Animal Care and Control Division the names,
addresses, and phone numbers of the owners of the dogs and cats, and the
corresponding microchip identification numbers. Such records shall be available
to the Animal Care and Control Division without court order.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a person to own a dog or cat three months of
age or older which is kept in the city, and which does not bear a permanent
means of identification as provided in this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-24) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTION ON OWNERS OF DANGEROUS OR NUISANCE ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who has been found in violation of
§§
90.03 (Duties and responsibilities of animal owners),
90.05 (Cruelty, neglect, and abandonment of animals),
90.09 (Vicious animals),
90.11 (Restraint of animals; animals at large) or
90.12 (Public nuisance animals) to own or keep more than two animals in the
city or to own or keep any animal:
      (1)   That has not been spayed or neutered by a veterinarian; or
      (2)   That has not been implanted with a microchip with a registered
identification number.
   (B)   A person who violates division (A) above shall keep any animal owned
or kept by that person outside in a structural enclosure sufficient to confine
the animal without means of escape, unless the animal is on a leash and under
the control of a competent person.
   (C)   A person who is under additional restrictions that commits subsequent
violations of §§
90.03 (Duties and responsibilities of animal owners),
90.05 (Cruelty, neglect, and abandonment of animals),
90.09 (Vicious animals),
90.11 (Restraint of animals; animals at large), or
90.12 (Public nuisance animals) shall be subject to forfeiture of their animal
to the enforcement authority and may be prohibited by a court from owning or
keeping any animal within the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-25) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANIMAL ATTACKS.
   (A)   An owner or keeper of an animal commits a violation of this chapter if
that animal chases or approaches in an aggressive manner and/or attacks a
person or another domestic animal resulting in injury who did not provoke the
animal prior to the attack.
   (B)   It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section if:
      (1)   The violation of division (A) above occurred in an enclosure in
which the animal was confined without means of escape, there was posted at the
main entrance of the enclosure a notice to beware of the animal, and the person
or animal attacked entered the enclosure without invitation; or
      (2)   The violation of division (A) above occurred during the commission
or attempted commission of, or escape from, a criminal act on the property of
the owner or keeper of the animal.
   (C)   If a judgement is entered under this section, the court, in its
discretion, may enter a finding that the animal is deemed a vicious animal for
purposes of §
90.09. If the violation results in the animal causing serious injury or death
to any person or animal, the court upon request, may order the animal forfeited
or destroyed.
   (D)   The liability imposed by this section shall not reduce, substitute
for, or in any manner be deemed to be in derogation of the rights accorded
victims of dog bite injury or property damages as provided for at I.C. 15-20-1-
3 et seq. or by common law.
(Prior Code, § 10-26) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 BACKYARD BREEDERS AND PUPPY MILLS.
   No person shall engage in, participate in or assist with those activities
defined as a backyard breeder or puppy mill in accordance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-27) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.28 JURISDICTION.
   The City Council finds that the terms and conditions of this chapter are in
the best interests of all citizens of the city and enforceable within city
boundaries.
(Prior Code, § 10-28) (Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   A person violating §
90.03 may be fined up to $500 per occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 10-3)
   (C)   A person violating §
90.04 may be fined up to $500 per occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 10-4)
   (D)   A person violating §
90.05 may be fined up to $2,500 per occurrence. If the court find that a person
has violated §
90.05 the court may, in its discretion, order other owned pets be seized by law
enforcement with ownership relinquished to the Humane Society for Hamilton
County, order the forfeiture of future pet ownership within the city, order
counseling or order the animal owner to pay restitution. Notwithstanding any
judgement under this section, animal cruelty, animal neglect or animal
abandonment cases may also be prosecuted according to the I.C. 35-46-3-12.
(Prior Code, § 10-5)
   (E)   A person violating §
90.07 may be fined up to $500 per occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 10-7)
   (F)   Any person or caregiver determined to be in violation of §
90.08(D), (E) or (F) shall be issued a written warning and be allowed a period
of time to come into compliance or provide satisfactory evidence of working to
achieve compliance. Failure to comply shall result in a violation of this
chapter. A person violating §
90.08 may be fined up to $500 per occurrence. Caregivers in violation of §
90.08 will lose caretaker privilege and will become subject to all sections of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-8)
   (G)   A person violating §
90.09 may be fined up to $500 per occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 10-9)
   (H)   A person violating §
90.10 may be fined up to $500 per occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 10-10)
   (I)   A person violating §
90.11 commits a Class C infraction and may be fined up to $500 per occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 10-11)
   (J)   A person whose animal is deemed a public nuisance animal violates §
90.12 and may be fined up to $1,500 per occurrence. Any such public nuisance
animal may be impounded, and the owner or possessor charged for a violation of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-12)
   (K)   A person violating §
90.13 may be fined up to $500 per occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 10-13)
   (L)   A person violating §
90.14 may be fined up to $2,500 per occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 10-14)
   (M)   A person violating §
90.15 may be fined up to $500 per occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 10-15)
   (N)   A person violating §
90.17 may be fined up to $500 per occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 10-17)
   (O)   A person violating §
90.20 may be fined up to $500 per occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 10-20)
   (P)   A person violating §
90.21 may be fined up to $2,500 per occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 10-21)
   (Q)   Failure to register each litter shall be considered a violation of §
90.22 and shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 or more than
$2,500.
(Prior Code, § 10-22)
   (R)   Any person who is refused admission into a city building with an
animal pursuant to §
90.23 and continues to enter the public building with the animal, may be fined
up to $500 per occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 10-23)
   (S)    A person violating §
90.24 may be fined up to $500 per occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 10-24)
   (T)   A person violating §
90.25 may be fined up to $500 per occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 10-25)
   (U)   A person violating §
90.26 may be fined up to $500 per occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 10-26)
   (V)   A person violating §
90.27 may be fined up to $1,500 per occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 10-27)
(Ord. 21-32, passed 7-12-2021)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Litter in public places
   
91.03   Placement of litter in receptacles so as to prevent scattering
   
91.04   Sweeping litter in gutters prohibited
   
91.05   Property owners’ or occupants’ duty to keep sidewalks free from
obstruction
   
91.06   Litter thrown from vehicles
   
91.07   Trucks loads causing litter
   
91.08   Litter in private places
   
91.09   Storage of scrap metal
   
91.10   Nuisances enumerated
   
91.11   Owner to maintain premises free of litter and nuisances
   
91.12   Nuisances created by others
   
91.13   Outdoor storage of environmentally hazardous materials prohibited
Noise
   
91.25   Prohibitions
   
91.26   Exemptions
Weeds, Rank Vegetation and Debris
   
91.40   Definitions
   
91.41   Violation
   
91.42   Requirement to cut
   
91.43   Violation notice
   
91.44   Appeal
   
91.45   City to abate
   
91.46   Appeal of costs
   
91.47   Failure to pay
   
91.48   Time of appeals
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes and shall include every waste, accumulation of
animal, fruit or vegetable matter used or intended for food or used in the
preparation, use, cooking, sale or storage of meat, fish, fowl, vegetables or
fruits.
   GUTTER. Concrete improvements constructed along the edge of roads or streets
designed to collect and carry water to a storm sewer or other drainage system.
   LITTER. Garbage and rubbish as these terms are defined in this section,
newspapers, handbills, circulars and all other waste material which, if thrown
or deposited as prohibited in this subchapter, tends to create a danger to
public health, safety and welfare.
   RUBBISH. Such matter as ashes, cans, scrap metal, broken glass, crockery,
foul and filthy substances, dirt, sweepings, boxes, wood, grass, weeds or waste
matter of any kind.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
(Prior Code, § 34-31) (Ord. 96-30, passed 12-9-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Planning and zoning violation as common nuisance, see I.C. 36-7-4-1012
§ 91.02 LITTER IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk or
other public place within the city except in public receptacles or in
authorized private receptacles for collection.
(Prior Code, § 34-32) (Ord. 96-30, passed 12-9-1996) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 PLACEMENT OF LITTER IN RECEPTACLES SO AS TO PREVENT SCATTERING.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place, or
upon private property.
(Prior Code, § 34-33) (Ord. 96-30, passed 12-9-1996)
§ 91.04 SWEEPING LITTER IN GUTTERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
place within the city, the accumulation of litter from any building, lot or any
public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying property
shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises of litter.
(Prior Code, § 34-34) (Ord. 96-30, passed 12-9-1996) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 PROPERTY OWNERS’ OR OCCUPANTS’ DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS FREE FROM
OBSTRUCTION.
   Persons owning or occupying property shall keep all publicly owned sidewalks
and gutters adjacent to sidewalks and streets clear of litter, goods, wares,
merchandise, boxes, trash receptacles, automobiles and obstructions of any
nature.
(Prior Code, § 34-35) (Ord. 96-30, passed 12-9-1996; Ord. 98-18, passed 8-10-
1998)
§ 91.06 LITTER THROWN FROM VEHICLES.
   No person, while a driver or passenger of a vehicle, shall throw, deposit or
cause to be deposited, litter upon any street or other public place or upon
private property.
(Prior Code, § 34-36) (Ord. 96-30, passed 12-9-1996) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 TRUCKS LOADS CAUSING LITTER.
   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle unless such vehicle
is constructed or loaded as to prevent any load, contents or litter from being
blown or deposited upon any street, alley or other public place. No person
shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the wheels or tires
of which carry onto or deposit in any street, alley or other public place, mud,
dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 34-37) (Ord. 96-30, passed 12-9-1996) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 LITTER IN PRIVATE PLACES.
   No person shall throw, deposit or cause to be deposited, litter in or upon
any private property, whether owned by such person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain private receptacles
for collection in such manner that litter will be prevented from being carried
or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place,
or upon any private property.
(Prior Code, § 34-38) (Ord. 96-30, passed 12-9-1996) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 STORAGE OF SCRAP METAL.
   The storage of scrap metal within the incorporated city, except on premises
authorized by the city for such purposes, shall not be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 34-39) (Ord. 96-30, passed 12-9-1996) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant, manager or person having
control of any property within the incorporated city to permit or cause a
public nuisance to develop, including, but not limited to the following:
   (1)   Airborne matter. Emission of a significant amount of odor, dust, smoke
or other matter into the atmosphere which renders ordinary use and enjoyment of
property in the vicinity uncomfortable or impossible (see I.C. 36-8-2-8);
   (2)   Noise. Emissions of a significant amount of noise which renders
ordinary use and enjoyment of property in the vicinity uncomfortable or
impossible (see I.C. 36-8-2-8);
   (3)   Infestation. The causing or permitting of any significant rodent or
insect population to exist on any property, or to cause or permit any condition
which would attract such population (see I.C. 16-41-20 et seq., 16-41-34-7 and
36-8-2-4); and
   (4)   Other offenses. In addition to what is declared in this subchapter to
be a public nuisance, those offenses which are known in common law and state
statutes as public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as
is provided in this subchapter or in accordance with any other applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 34-40) (Ord. 96-30, passed 12-9-1996) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES FREE OF LITTER AND NUISANCES.
   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times
maintain the premises free of litter and nuisances, provided that this section
shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for
collection.
(Prior Code, § 34-41) (Ord. 96-30, passed 12-9-1996) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Violations on private property, see I.C. 36-1-6-2
§ 91.12 NUISANCES CREATED BY OTHERS.
   It is not essential that litter or nuisances be created or contributed to by
the owner, occupant, manager or person having control of property, but merely
that a nuisance be created or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests or
other persons whose conduct the owner, occupant, manager or person having
control of property is responsible for.
(Prior Code, § 34-42) (Ord. 96-30, passed 12-9-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Air pollution as public nuisance, see I.C. 13-1-1-7
§ 91.13 OUTDOOR STORAGE OF ENVIRONMENTALLY HAZARDOUS MATERIALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The Council finds that the outdoor storage of environmentally
hazardous materials poses a threat to the health, welfare and safety of the
citizens of the city.
   (B)   The city hereby forbids outdoor storage of environmentally hazardous
materials within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 34-44) (Ord. 05-19, passed 5-26-2005) Penalty, see §
91.99
NOISE
§ 91.25 PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall play, use or operate any machine or device for the producing
or reproducing or sound, including, but not limited to, loudspeakers, radios,
CD players, television sets, musical instruments, phonographs, cassette players
or any other machine designed or intended to produce or reproduce sound, not
operate any motor vehicle that contains a modified or defective exhaust system,
if such machine, device or vehicle is located in or on any of the following:
   (A)   Any public property, including any public right-of-way, highway,
building, sidewalk, public space, park or thoroughfare and the sound generated
therefrom is clearly audible 40 feet or more from its source, or is at a level
of 90 decibels or more when measured from a distance of not less than six feet
from its source; or
   (B)   Any private property and the sound generated therefrom is clearly
audible 40 feet or more outside of said private property line, or is at a level
of 90 decibels or more when measured from a distance of not less than six feet
from said private property line.
(Prior Code, § 34-51) (Ord. 02-34, passed 11-11-2002) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.26 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempted from the provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   Sounds emitted from authorized emergency vehicles;
   (B)   Lawn mowers, garden tractors, construction equipment and power tools,
when properly muffled, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. only;
   (C)   Burglar alarms and other warning devices when properly installed,
providing the cause for such alarm or warning device sound is investigated and
turned off within a reasonable period of time;
   (D)   Parades, festivals, carnivals, fairs, celebrations, concerts, artistic
performances or other events authorized by the City Council or another
appropriate governmental entity;
   (E)   Attendant noise connected with the actual performance of athletic or
sporting events and practices related thereto;
   (F)   The emission of sound for the purposes of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency, or for the performance of emergency work;
   (G)   Sounds associated with the use of legal fireworks;
   (H)   Sounds associated with the use of an approved public safety training
facility between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.; and
   (I)   Sounds associated with the normal conduct of legally established non-
transient businesses when such sounds are customary, incidental and within the
normal range appropriate for such use.
(Prior Code, § 34-52) (Ord. 02-34, passed 11-11-2002)
WEEDS, RANK VEGETATION AND DEBRIS
§ 91.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEBRIS. Includes the remains of something broken-down or destroyed.
   RANK VEGETATION. Includes those weeds and growing vegetation which is
excessively vigorous in growth, shockingly conspicuous, malodorous and/or
flagrant. This definition shall also apply to any and all vegetation that
inhibits a safe field of view along any public roadway.
   WEEDS. Includes any plant that is not valued where it is growing, and is of
rank growth, tends to overgrow or choke out more desirable plants and/or is
listed as a weed in the U.S. Department of Agriculture publication entitled
Common Weeds of the United States, or in any similar government publication.
(Prior Code, § 34-91) (Ord. 12-20, passed 7-9-2012)
§ 91.41 VIOLATION.
   It is a violation of this subchapter to have weeds, rank vegetation and/or
debris on any real property (“property”) located within the city’s corporate
limits.
(Prior Code, § 34-92) (Ord. 12-20, passed 7-9-2012) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 REQUIREMENT TO CUT.
   All owners of property located within the city shall cut and remove weeds
and other rank vegetation growing thereon that exceeds a height of 12 inches,
and shall keep their property clear of debris.
(Prior Code, § 34-93) (Ord. 12-20, passed 7-9-2012) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.43 VIOLATION NOTICE.
   In the event of a violation of this subchapter, the director and/or his or
her designee, or an officer of the Police or Fire Department shall issue a
written notice (“violation notice”) to the violating landowner. The violation
notice shall identify the violation and order the landowner to correct the same
within ten calendar days from the date on which the violation notice is served
on the landowner (“abatement period”). Posting notice conspicuously on the
property in violation, personal service, service by U.S. certified mail,
regular mail or any other manner service recognized in the Indiana Rules of
Trial Procedure shall constitute proper service upon the landowner for purposes
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 34-94) (Ord. 12-20, passed 7-9-2012)
§ 91.44 APPEAL.
   Any violation notice issued pursuant to this subchapter may be appealed to
the Board of Public Works and Safety (“board”) if written notice of appeal is
served by the landowner on the city within the time period contained in the
violation notice. The timely appeal of a violation notice shall toll the
abatement period pending the issuance of a decision thereon by the Board.
Service of this notice shall be to the Community Development Department.
(Prior Code, § 34-95) (Ord. 12-20, passed 7-9-2012)
§ 91.45 CITY TO ABATE.
   If the landowner fails to timely abate each violation set forth in a
violation notice, the landowner shall be deemed to have granted permission to
the city to enter the landowner’s property for the limited purpose of
inspecting, cutting and/or removing such debris, weeds or rank vegetation
located thereon and identified in the violation notice. In such case, the
director, or his or her designee, shall prepare a certified statement as to the
actual administrative and other costs incurred by the city in taking such
action, and serve a copy of the invoice on the landowner. The landowner shall,
within seven calendar days from the date on which the landowner is served with
such invoice (“payment period”), pay in full the amount stated thereon to the
Department of Community Development (“Department”).
(Prior Code, § 34-96) (Ord. 12-20, passed 7-9-2012)
§ 91.46 APPEAL OF COSTS.
   Any invoice issued pursuant to this subchapter may be appealed to the Board
of Public Works and Safety if written notice of appeal is served on the
Director within seven calendar days from the date on which the invoice is
served on the landowner. The timely appeal of an invoice shall toll the payment
period pending the issuance of a decision thereon by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 34-97) (Ord. 12-20, passed 7-9-2012)
§ 91.47 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If the landowner fails to timely pay an invoice issued pursuant to this
subchapter, the Director, or his or her designee, shall certify to the County
Auditor the amount of the invoice, plus any additional administrative costs
incurred in the certification of the same. The Auditor shall place the total
amount so certified on the tax duplicate for the property at issue, and the
total amount, including any accrued interest, shall be collected as delinquent
taxes are collected and shall be disbursed to the General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 34-98) (Ord. 12-20, passed 7-9-2012)
§ 91.48 TIME OF APPEALS.
   The Board shall hear any timely requested appeal of a notice of violation or
invoice within 30 calendar days following receipt of the same, and shall
thereafter promptly issue a written decision granting or denying, in whole or
in part, the appeal. The date on which the Board’s decision is served on the
landowner shall thereafter become the first calendar day of the abatement
period or payment period, as applicable.
(Prior Code, § 34-99) (Ord. 12-20, passed 7-9-2012)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violations outlined in §§
91.01 through
91.13 are punishable as Class C infractions pursuant to I.C. 34-28-5-4, which
allows for a judgment of up to $500. The payment of a penalty for the violation
of any provision of §§
91.01 through
91.13 shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed each day such violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 34-43)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
91.25 and
91.26 shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by a fine of not more than:
         (a)   First offense: up to $250;
         (b)   Second offense within two years: up to $500;
         (c)   Third offense within two years: up to $1,000; and
         (d)   Fourth and subsequent offenses within two years: up to $2,500.
(Prior Code, § 34-53)
      (2)   (a)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which the violation occurs or continues.
         (b)   The payment of a penalty for the violation of any provision of
§§
91.25 and
91.26 shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue. Nor shall such
payment be held to prevent the enforced correction of the prohibited conditions
by the court in which any complaint based on these sections shall be filed, or
by separate action as provided for herein.
         (c)   In addition to any penalties provided for herein the city shall
have the right to enforce compliance with the code or to enjoin the acts in
violation of the code by filing the necessary actions for injunctive relief. If
injunctive relief is granted by any court, the city shall further be entitled
to recover the costs of prosecuting the suit, which costs shall include
attorney fees or other necessary expenses.
         (d)   Violations of any §§
91.25 or 91.36 may be brought by the city or its authorized agent on a form
complaint and summons.
(Prior Code, § 34-54)
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
91.40 through
91.48 shall be subject to the general penalties set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. Each day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 34-100)
(Ord. 96-30, passed 12-9-1996; Ord. 02-34, passed 11-11-2002; Ord. 12-20,
passed 7-9-2012)
CHAPTER 92: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
Trees and Shrubs
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Planting of trees and shrubs
   
92.03   Vegetation obstructing public rights-of-way
   
92.04   Duty of property owners
   
92.05   Obstruction of visibility
   
92.06   Damage to street or sidewalk
   
92.07   Access
   
92.08   City and public utility not liable
Public Trees
   
92.20   Intent
   
92.21   Prohibitions
   
92.22   Definitions
   
92.23   Tree standards
   
92.24   Tree maintenance
   
92.25   General requirements
   
92.26   Permitting
   
92.27   Violations
   
92.28   Appeals process
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Streets, sidewalks and other public ways, see
Ch. 152
   Weeds, rank vegetation and debris, see §§
91.40 through
91.46
TREES AND SHRUBS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. The person whose name appears on the current tax duplicate in the
office of the Auditor of the county as the owner of such real estate.
(Prior Code, § 34-61) (Ord. 96-30, passed 12-9-1996)
§ 92.02 PLANTING OF TREES AND SHRUBS.
   Within the city, no person shall plant trees or shrubs between the street
and the sidewalk or property line, except under the following conditions:
   (A)   No tree or shrub shall exceed a height of 18 feet at maturity; and
   (B)   No shrub, exceeding a height of three feet, or tree shall be planted
within 20 feet of any other tree or shrub, or within 20 feet of an
intersection.
(Prior Code, § 34-62) (Ord. 96-30, passed 12-9-1996) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 VEGETATION OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   No trees or other vegetation shall be permitted to grow with less than 14
feet of clearance over streets or less than eight feet over sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 34-63) (Ord. 96-30, passed 12-9-1996) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   The owner or person in control of real estate adjacent to the area between
the street and the sidewalks or right-of-way line on which any tree or shrub is
planted shall be responsible for the maintenance and removal of the tree or
shrub if such removal is necessary. If, after notice from the city, the owner
or person in control fails to remove a dead tree or shrub or any dead or
dangerous limbs or branches thereon, the city may remove the shrub or limbs and
collect the costs thereof from the owner.
(Prior Code, § 34-64) (Ord. 96-30, passed 12-9-1996)
§ 92.05 OBSTRUCTION OF VISIBILITY.
   If any tree or shrub shall, in the opinion of the City Council, create a
hazardous obstruction to vision which may endanger vehicular or pedestrian
traffic, then the tree or shrub shall be appropriately trimmed or removed.
(Prior Code, § 34-65) (Ord. 96-30, passed 12-9-1996)
§ 92.06 DAMAGE TO STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   If any tree or shrub shall cause damage to any street, curb or sidewalk,
then the tree or shrub causing such damage shall be removed and the damage
shall be repaired by the owner or person in control of the property on which
such tree or shrub is located.
(Prior Code, § 34-66) (Ord. 96-30, passed 12-9-1996)
§ 92.07 ACCESS.
   The city and public utilities retain their ownership and right of access to
the areas between the street and right-of-way lines and retain the right to
reasonably remove any tree or shrub impeding necessary work to be performed by
the city, public utilities or other authorized users.
(Prior Code, § 34-67) (Ord. 96-30, passed 12-9-1996)
§ 92.08 CITY AND PUBLIC UTILITY NOT LIABLE.
   Neither the city, public utilities nor other authorized users of the city’s
property located between the street and the sidewalk or right-of-way line shall
be liable for any damages done to trees or shrubs located upon city property as
a result of the action of the city, public utilities or other authorized users
in the performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 34-68) (Ord. 96-30, passed 12-9-1996)
PUBLIC TREES
§ 92.20 INTENT.
   (A)   The city finds that trees are an important asset to the natural
ecosystem, beneficially contribute to the character of the community, and
positively influence the quality of life within the community. The purpose of
this subchapter is to provide minimum standards for street and park trees
throughout the city. Trees are viewed as a critical element to promote the
desired image of the community, enhance the visual appearance and land values,
and protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
   (B)   The street and park tree elements of the section are intended to:
      (1)   Provide for the protection, preservation, replacement and proper
maintenance of trees within and overhanging public property including rights-
of-way;
      (2)   Protect the integrity of streetscapes and park property;
      (3)   Provide a tree planting maintenance program; and
      (4)   Provide the minimum regulation necessary to ensure that trees
within and overhanging public property, including rights-of-way, are preserved
wherever possible.
(Prior Code, § 34-141) (Ord. 07-27, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 92.21 PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be a violation of this code for any person other than the city or
its designee, or a private utility or their designee, to:
   (A)   Tie, tack, nail, wire or otherwise attach any sign, poster, handbill
or other object to any street tree, park tree or other woody vegetation on
public property;
   (B)   Prune, spray, treat, top or remove park trees, except when overhanging
private property; and
   (C)   Prevent, delay or interfere with the city or its designee engaged in
the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, treating, removal or
otherwise maintain woody vegetation on public property.
(Prior Code, § 34-142) (Ord. 07-27, passed 12-10-2007) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING PROPERTY OWNER. Adjacent or bordering holder or proprietor of land.
   CALIPER. A standard trunk diameter measurement for trees. CALIPER
measurements are taken six inches above the finished grade for trees with a
diameter of four inches or less and 12 inches above the finished grade for
larger sizes.
   CLEAR VISION TRIANGLE.
   DECIDUOUS TREE. A tree that sheds its foliage at the end of the growing
season.
   EVERGREEN TREE. A tree that has foliage that persists and remains green
throughout the year.
   LARGE TREE(S). Mature tree height over 40 feet.
   MEDIUM TREE(S). Mature tree height 20 to 40 feet.
   ORNAMENTAL TREE. A deciduous tree that is typically grown because of its
shape, flowering characteristics or other attractive features and typically
grows to a mature height of 20 feet or less.
   PARK TREE(S). A tree located within a City of Westfield park.
   PUBLIC TREE(S). A tree located in the public right-of-way, within a City of
Westfield park, or on City of Westfield property.
   SMALL TREE(S). Mature tree height under 20 feet.
   STREET TREE(S). A tree located in the public right-of-way strip adjacent to
a road, street, drive, court or alley.
   TREE. A woody plant which at maturity is 13 feet or more in height with an
erect perennial trunk and having a definite crown of foliage.
   TREE LAWN. That part of a street or highway, not covered by sidewalk or
other paving, lying within the public street right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 34-143) (Ord. 07-27, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 92.23 TREE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   All trees shall be hardy to the region, be free of disease and
insects at time of planting and conform to the American Standard for Nursery
Stock of the American Association of Nurserymen.
      (2)   Tree stakes, guy wires and tree wrap will be installed at time of
planting and removed after one year.
   (B)   Species.
      (1)   The city’s Parks and Recreation Department shall establish, update
and maintain a listing of appropriate street and park trees for planting within
public property.
      (2)   A copy of the list shall be available in the city’s Parks and
Recreation Department offices during regular business hours.
   (C)   Caliper.
      (1)   Deciduous trees shall measure at minimum two caliper inches 12
inches above grade.
      (2)   Evergreen trees shall measure at minimum six feet from grade.
      (3)   Ornamental trees shall measure at minimum two caliper inches six
inches above finished grade.
(Prior Code, § 34-144) (Ord. 07-27, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 92.24 TREE MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The city, or its designee, shall plant, prune, maintain and if
necessary, remove, all street and park trees, as well as other woody
vegetation, within or overhanging public property, including rights-of-way, as
determined to be reasonably appropriate to enhance public safety with
consideration given to symmetry and beauty of public grounds.
   (B)   Trees that were planted, and approved, as part of an overall
development plan, are the responsibility of the property management group,
homeowners association or adjoining property owner to the right-of-way.
   (C)   Property owners abutting public rights-of-way who have trees
encroaching on right-of-way shall be required to remove tree branches that hang
above any sidewalk or street to a distance of eight feet above the surface of a
sidewalk or a distance of 12 feet above a street.
   (D)   The city reserves the right to remove any and all trees from public
property or rights-of-way when it becomes necessary and expedient to remove in
order to carry out any plan of street sidewalk, curb improvement, street
improvement or other infrastructure project adopted by the city.
   (E)   Trees located in a public right-of-way may be removed by the city, or
its designee, based on any one of the following criteria. Trees not meeting
these criteria may be removed at the abutting property owner’s expense.
      (1)   Tree(s) is dead or dying
      (2)   Tree(s) is deemed hazardous for which the condition can not be
resolved or corrected through pruning or other reasonable arboricultural
practices.
      (3)   When tree(s) are not deemed dead, dying or hazardous, the following
factors will be considered:
         (a)   Life expectancy of the tree;
         (b)   Desirability of the tree species;
         (c)   Amount of space for growth;
         (d)   Overall quality and structural integrity of the tree;
         (e)   Persistent and uncontrollable insect, disease or fruiting
problems;
         (f)   Frequency and extensiveness of maintenance requirements;
         (g)   Feasibility and timeliness in which a replacement may be
planted;
         (h)   Proximity and quality of trees near to tree marked for removal;
         (i)   Wishes and desires of the abutting property owner;
         (j)   Quality and extend of past pruning and other tree maintenance
practices;
         (k)   Extent and frequency of damage being caused to surrounding
infrastructure such as, but not limited to, sidewalks, streets and sewers; and
         (l)   Location with regard to street lights, traffic control devices,
clear vision triangle and growing space requirements.
(Prior Code, § 34-145) (Ord. 07-27, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 92.25 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as specifically authorized by the City Parks and Recreation
Department and the City Public Works Department the spacing of trees shall be
in accordance with the following sizes and no tree may be planted (as measured
from the center of the tree):
   (A)   Closer than the following:
      (1)   Small trees, 25 feet;
      (2)   Medium trees, 35 feet; and
      (3)   Large trees, 45 feet.
   (B)   Closer to any curb, curb line or sidewalk than the following:
      (1)   Small trees, two feet;
      (2)   Medium trees, three feet; and
      (3)   Large trees, four feet.
   (C)   Within clear vision triangle of 40 feet on collectors, local roads and
streets, and 75 feet for primary arterials and secondary arterials, measured
from the point of the nearest intersection curbs or curb lines; and
   (D)   Within ten feet of any fire hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 34-146) (Ord. 07-27, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 92.26 PERMITTING.
   (A)   Individual property owners desiring to plant a tree(s) in the public
right-of-way strip abutting the owner’s property shall obtain a permit from the
City Parks and Recreation Department. Application shall include:
      (1)   Site plan showing:
         (a)   Location of existing and proposed plantings;
         (b)   Identification of each species of tree at each existing and
proposed location; and
         (c)   Identification and location of other structures within public
rights-of-way (including but not limited to: regulatory signs, hydrants,
manholes, or storm drains).
      (2)   Plant schedule listing the type and number of trees to be planted;
      (3)   Proof of ownership of abutting property; and
      (4)   Watering plan.
   (B)   Permit shall be wired to the tree with a city issued tag for a period
of six months.
(Prior Code, § 34-147) (Ord. 07-27, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 92.27 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notification. Whenever a tree is found not to be in compliance with
the tree maintenance in §
92.24, the City Code Enforcement Officer shall give the abutting property owner
written notice to trim such trees within seven days of receipt of notice.
   (B)   Failure to comply. On failure of the owner to cause said violations to
be brought into compliance, the city or designee shall trim the trees in
accordance with applicable standards.
   (C)   Cost of corrective actions. The cost of causing the violations to be
brought into compliance shall be charged to the abutting property owner, and
shall be payable within 30 days of the completion of the corrective actions.
   (D)   Recovery of costs. If within 30 days of billing the abutting property
owner fails to pay charges, the city shall file suit to collect the amount due
for the work completed.
   (E)   Continued violation. Payment of the penalty for any violation of any
provision of this subchapter shall not excuse the violation or permit it to
continue, nor shall payment be withheld to prevent enforcement correction of
the prohibited conditions.
(Prior Code, § 34-148) (Ord. 07-27, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 92.28 APPEALS PROCESS.
   Should a property owner be denied a permit or found to be in violation of
this subchapter section, he or she may appeal to the City Board of Public
Works. Application may be submitted to the City Public Works Department.
(Prior Code, § 34-149) (Ord. 07-27, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violations outlined in §§
92.01 through
92.08 are punishable as Class C infractions pursuant to I.C. 34-28-5-4, which
allows for a judgment of up to $500. The payment of a penalty for the violation
of any provision of §§
92.01 through
92.08 shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed each day such violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 34-69) (Ord. 96-30, passed 12-9-1996)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Regulations
   
93.01   General rules for the use of city park and recreational facilities
   
93.02   Trail rules and use of operation
   
93.03   Skate park rules of operation
   
93.04   Splash park rules of operation
   
93.05   Pickle ball courts rules of operation
   
93.06   Ice-skating rink rules of operation
   
93.07   Playground rules of operations
   
93.08   The Hill at Simon Moon Park rules of operation
   
93.09   Grand Junction Plaza rules of operation
   
93.10   Non-city sponsored special events in city parks
   
93.11   Geo-caching
   
93.12   Tree inspection
   
93.13   Trail access permit policy
Department of Parks and Recreation
   
93.25   Creation
   
93.26   Membership; appointment; vacancies; terms
   
93.27   President and Vice President
   
93.28   Powers
   
93.29   Budget
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Non-Reverting Operating Parks and Recreation Fund, see §
38.045
   Partial waiving of fees for Hamilton County parks and recreation building
projects, see §
37.048
   Smoking prohibited in public places, see
Ch. 131
REGULATIONS
§ 93.01 GENERAL RULES FOR THE USE OF CITY PARK AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   All applicable state, federal and local laws, including, but not
limited to, laws governing vandalism, nuisance, litter, animal control, alcohol
and drugs will be enforced.
   (B)   The following rules are provided to supplement the laws and ensure a
safe and nurturing experience while visiting Westfield parks and recreation
facilities. Questions concerning these rules can be directed to the Westfield
Parks and Recreation Administration Office at 317-804-3184 during regular
business hours.
      (1)   Park hours. Unless otherwise posted, all parks and trails are open
from sunrise to sunset seven days a week.
      (2)   Parking. Parking is allowed in designated parking lots only. No one
shall park in a parking space designated for the physically challenged without
a handicap permit. No overnight parking is allowed in city parks.
      (3)   Use of vehicles. It is strictly prohibited for any motorized
vehicles; with the exception of motorized wheelchairs or official city vehicles
being operated by city employees, to be operated within park boundaries. All
vehicles shall be operated on roadways specifically designated for vehicular
traffic.
      (4)   Shelter rentals. Shelters can be reserved for a fee. Reservations
can be made on a first come first served basis by calling customer service at
317-804-3150 during regular business hours. Rental fees must be paid to confirm
the reservation. For more information on facilities, please visit the Parks and
Recreation Department webpage.
      (5)   Alcohol. Unless stated otherwise herein, use of alcohol in parks is
prohibited. Special event permits may be considered, and require filing
liability and insurance documents along with a special event permit application
with the parks and recreation administration office.
      (6)   Use of fire. Fires are only allowed in the designated charcoal
grills at the shelters. Portable gas grills may be used in the shelter areas.
Bonfires are prohibited. The use of the Council Circle Fire Pit at Simon Moon
Park must be approved through the parks and recreation administration office
and have staff on site during use.
      (7)   Smoking. All parks and trails are a smoke-free zone.
      (8)   Fireworks. No personal fireworks are allowed in city parks.
      (9)   Camping. Overnight camping is not allowed.
      (10)   Water ways. Use of water ways or ditches within the parks are for
wildlife use only unless designated otherwise.
      (11)   Trash. It is strictly prohibited for any person to deposit any
refuse (as that term is defined by state law) into a park or within a park
refuse disposal receptacle, except for garbage defined as paper goods, food
wrappers or food container used in the park.
      (12)   Animals. Any animal in a park must be restrained by a leash or
lead no longer than six feet, or under the physical control of the animal’s
owner or attending party. Pet owners must have and use a container or device
for the holding of their pet’s waste while they are in a park, on a trail or
pathway. Violations will result in fines. Dog or other pets are not permitted
on any athletic playing field, or children’s playground area. Horses or ponies
are not allowed to be brought into city parks. It is prohibited for any person
to knowingly cause or directly abandon any animal in a city park.
      (13)   Hunting. Capturing or harming any wild animal or bird in the parks
or on the trails is prohibited.
      (14)   Weapons. Missile propelling devices, fireworks, bombs or other
explosive devices, knives, paintball equipment or any other objects that can
reasonably be considered a weapon, are strictly prohibited in any park for any
reason. This prohibition does not apply to law enforcement officers as defined
in the Indiana Code.
      (15)   Vandalism. It is strictly prohibited for any person to remove,
destroy, break, injure, mutilate or deface in any way any structure, sign,
fence, wall, trail, railing, bench, tree, shrub, plant, flower or any other
property of city parks. No person shall climb any tree; walk, stand or sit upon
monuments or any other property not designated for that use.
      (16)   Inappropriate behavior. No sexual activity or nudity is allowed in
city parks. No person shall use profane or abusive language, or conduct oneself
in a disorderly manner in city parks.
      (17)   Special events and/or programs. All special events must be
coordinated through the parks and recreation administration office using the
special event application procedure.
      (18)   Inflatables or dunk tanks. Inflatables or dunk tanks are not
allowed.
      (19)   Music entertainment. Unless otherwise stated herein, it is
prohibited to use radios, tape machines, CD players, IPODS, live musical
entertainment or amplification systems in a loud manner which will interfere
with others using the park or the park neighbors.
      (20)   Soliciting/conducting business. It is prohibited for any person to
solicit for or conduct any business or to sell or to offer to sell any parcel
or service or solicit for charitable contributions in city parks.
   (C)   Violation of any of these rules can mean expulsion from the park.
   (D)   Broken equipment or anything that requires immediate attention, should
be reported to the parks and recreation administrative office at 317-804-3184.
(Prior Code, § 44-1) (Ord. 11-12, passed 6-27-2011; Ord. 21-37, passed 10-11-
2021) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 TRAIL RULES AND USE OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Use of trails. Use of city multi-use trails facilities may cause
injury or potential death. The city is not responsible for injuries, and each
trail user agrees to hold the city harmless from related damages and claims.
All rules stated in §
93.01 apply to the multi-use trails, paths or sidewalks operated by the city.
In addition, the following rules must be adhered to.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MOTORIZED VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is propelled in whole or in part by a
motor or any mechanical or artificial means, or is being pushed or towed by the
same, except:
         (a)   A bicycle;
         (b)   A manual or power wheelchair;
         (c)   An electric personal assistance mobility device that constitutes
a self-balancing, two wheeled device designed to transport one person with
electric propulsion system with an average power of 750 watts or one horsepower
and that has a maximum speed of less than 20 mph when operated on a paved and
level surface powered solely by said propulsion system and is operated by a
person weighing 170 pounds;
         (d)   A city owner, leased or contracted snow plow, snow blower,
sweeper, lawn mower, maintenance vehicle or repair vehicle;
         (e)   A city owned or leased public safety vehicle;
         (f)   An authorized emergency vehicle; or
         (g)   Any vehicle so designated in writing by the city.
      MULTI-USE TRAIL. Any named hard surface operated by the City of Westfield
being greater than ten feet in width including, but not limited to, the Monon
Trail, the Midland Trace Trail, the Grand Junction Trail, the Natalie Wheeler
Trail, the Monon Midland Loop Trail, the Grassy Branch Trail and the Cool Creek
Trail.
      PATH. Any hard surface eight to ten feet in width, operated by the City
of Westfield that exists within city right-of-way.
      SIDEWALK. Any hard surface less than eight feet in width that exists
within the City of Westfield right-of-way.
      TRAIL USER. Any person, resident or nonresident, actively using a multi-
use trail, path, or sidewalk for purposes of recreation or transportation.
   (C)   No motorized vehicles allowed. Motorized vehicles are prohibited on
any trails in the city parks trail system, with the exception of the areas
specified in Ordinance 18-50.
   (D)   Trail user duty to yield and signal.
      (1)   All users have the duty to obey the following yield rules:
         (a)   Bicycles yield to rollerbladers;
         (b)   Bicycles and rollerbladers yield to skateboarders;
         (c)   Bicycles, rollerbladers, and skateboarders yield to runners; and
         (d)   All yield to pedestrians.
      (2)   Any trail user upon a multi-use trail shall yield the right-of-way
to any other trail user they approach from behind and shall give an audible
signal before overtaking and then safely passing said trail user.
   (E)   Animals. Any animal on a multi-use trail must be restrained by a leash
or lead no longer than six feet, or under the physical control of the animal’s
owner or attending party. Pet owners must have and use a container or device
for the holding of their pet’s waste while they are on a trail or pathway.
Violations will result in fines.
   (F)   Trail user to obey the laws. All trail users within the city multi-use
trail system shall obey all traffic signals, traffic control devices, signs and
markings upon any path, sidewalk or multi-use trail unless otherwise directed
by a police officer. Failure to obey these will result in a fine.
   (G)   Right-of-way. Trail users have the right-of-way while on any multi-use
trail, path or sidewalk located within the city, and all others must yield or
adjust their rate and direction of travel to avoid a collision with any and all
such trail users. However, trail users are required to yield to vehicular
traffic at those points where the multi-use trails, paths or sidewalks
intersects with or crosses the roadway.
   (H)   Multi-use trail speed limits. No vehicle on which one or more persons
and/or property is or may be transported or drawn, whether motorized, propelled
by human power, the wind, or in any other manner, may operate or travel in
excess of 20 mph on or along any multi-use trail, path or sidewalk within the
city.
(Prior Code, § 44-2) (Ord. 21-37, passed 10-11-2021) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 SKATE PARK RULES OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Use of this facility may cause injury or potential death. The city is
not responsible for injuries. Know your ability and participate at your own
risk. All rules stated in §
93.01 apply to the skate park. In addition, the following rules must be adhered
to.
      (1)   Personal safety. For personal safety, safety equipment such as
helmets, knee pads, elbow pads and wrist guards are recommended.
      (2)   Food and beverages. Food and beverages are not permitted within the
skate park.
      (3)   Pets. No pets are allowed in the skate park.
      (4)   Skate park usage. The Parks and Recreation Department and the
Police Department reserve the right to revoke the use of the skate park to
individuals who violate the rules and regulations. The Parks and Recreation
Department also maintain the right to close the skate park if there are
persistent problems with rules or vandalism.
      (5)   Hours of operation. The skate park is open daily sunrise to sunset,
unless closed for maintenance or rules violations.
      (6)   Fees. There are no fees for the use of the skate park.
      (7)   Respect. Treat the skate park and others with respect.
   (B)   Violation of any of these rules can mean expulsion from the park.
   (C)   Broken equipment or anything that requires immediate attention, should
be reported to the parks and recreation administrative office at 317-804-3184.
(Prior Code, § 44-3) (Ord. 21-37, passed 10-11-2021) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 SPLASH PARK RULES OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Quaker Park Splash Park. Use of this facility may cause injury. The
city is not responsible for injuries. All rules stated in §
93.01 apply to the splash park. In addition, the following rules must be
adhered to.
      (1)   The season of operation. The season begins on Memorial Day weekend
and runs until late September, weather permitting.
      (2)   Hours of operation. Hours of operations during the season are daily
from 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.
      (3)   Fees. There are no fees for the use of the splash park.
      (4)   Parent or guardian’s responsibility. Parents/guardians are
responsible for children’s safety. Children using the splash park must be
accompanied by an adult.
      (5)   Diapers. Children who are not restroom trained must wear a water
diaper.
      (6)   Running. Running in the splash park is prohibited.
      (7)   Glass. Glass containers should not be used on or near the splash
park.
      (8)   Pets. No pets are allowed in the splash park.
   (B)   Violation of any of these rules can mean expulsion from the park
   (C)   Broken equipment or anything that requires immediate attention, should
be reported to the parks and recreation administrative office at 317-804-3184.
(Prior Code, § 44-4) (Ord. 21-37, passed 10-11-2021) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 PICKLE BALL COURTS RULES OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Quaker Park Pickle Ball Courts. Use of this facility may cause injury.
The city is not responsible for injuries, and each pickle ball court user
agrees to hold the city harmless from related damages and claims. All rules
stated in §
93.01, General rules for the use of city parks and recreational facilities,
apply to the pickle ball courts. In addition, the following rules must be
adhered to.
      (1)   The season of operation. The season runs from March 1 through
December 1, but has the potential to run all year as long as weather permits.
      (2)   Hours of operation. Hours of operations during the season are daily
from dawn to dusk.
      (3)   Fees. There are no fees for the use of the pickle ball courts.
      (4)   Availability. The pickle ball courts are available on a first come
first serve basis only.
      (5)   Glass. Glass containers should not be used on or near the pickle
ball court.
      (6)   Pets. No pets are allowed in the pickle ball court.
      (7)   Appropriate equipment. Only regulation pickle ball paddles and
balls should be used.
      (8)   Pickle ball court usage. The Parks and Recreation Department and
the Police Department reserve the right to revoke the use of the pickle ball
courts to individuals who violate the rules and regulations. The Parks and
Recreation Department also maintains the right to close the pickle ball courts
if there are persistent problems with rules or vandalism.
   (B)   Violation of any of these rules can mean expulsion from the park.
   (C)   Broken equipment or anything that requires immediate attention, should
be reported to the parks and recreation administrative office at 317-804-3184.
(Prior Code, § 44-5) (Ord. 21-37, passed 10-11-2021) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 ICE-SKATING RINK RULES OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Grand Junction Ice-Skating Rink. Use of this facility may cause
injury. The city is not responsible for injuries, and each ice-skating rink
user agrees to hold the city harmless from related damages and claims. All
rules stated in §
93.0.1, as well as §
93.09, Grand Junction [Plaza] rules of operations, apply to the ice-skating
rink. In addition, the following rules must be adhered to.
      (1)   The season of operation. The season runs from the first Saturday in
December through the last Saturday in February, but may be shortened due to
weather.
      (2)   Hours of operation. Hours of operations during the season are
Monday through Thursday 3:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m., Friday 3:00 p.m. until 10:00
p.m., Saturday 11:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. and Sunday 12:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.
      (3)   Fees. Admission rates are $13 for those ages 13 and older and $11
for those ages 12 and younger. Skaters may bring their own skates but skate
rental is also included in the fee of admission.
      (4)   Food and drink. Food and drinks are not permitted on the skating
rink.
      (5)   Pets. No pets are allowed on the ice-skating rink.
      (6)   Appropriate equipment. Both figure and hockey skates are permitted
for use on the ice-skating rink.
      (7)   Ice skating rink usage. The Parks and Recreation Department and the
Police Department reserve the right to revoke the use of the ice-skating rink
to individuals who violate the rules and regulations. The Parks and Recreation
Department also maintains the right to close the ice skating rink if there are
persistent problems with rules or vandalism.
   (B)   Violation of any of these rules can mean expulsion from the park.
   (C)   Broken equipment or anything that requires immediate attention, should
be reported to the parks and recreation administrative office at 317-804-3184.
(Prior Code, § 44-6) (Ord. 21-37, passed 10-11-2021) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 PLAYGROUND RULES OF OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Public playground safety guidelines. For your play enjoyment, please
obey the following or you may cause injury to yourself or others around you.
Play safely and be courteous of others. Use of this facility may cause injury.
The city is not responsible for injuries. All rules stated in §
93.01 apply to playgrounds. In addition, the following rules must be adhered
to.
      (1)   Hours of operation. Hours of operations are daily sunrise to
sunset.
      (2)   Pets. No pets allowed on the playgrounds.
      (3)   Parent or guardian’s responsibility. Children seven and under
should be accompanied by a parent or guardian.
      (4)   Use of play equipment. Note age-appropriate use for equipment and
adhere to guidelines.
      (5)   Be aware. For everyone’s safety inspect play area before starting
to play and remove litter.
      (6)   Prohibited uses. No bicycles, rollerblades or skateboard use within
the play area.
      (7)   Caution.
         (a)   Bare feet may cause injury;
         (b)   Throwing sand or any other objects within play area may cause
injury; and
         (c)   Playing on this equipment when wet may cause injury.
      (8)   Swings.
         (a)   Hold on with both hands;
         (b)   Standing on swings may cause injury;
         (c)   Stop swinging before getting off;
         (d)   Never swing or twist empty seats; and
         (e)   Stand clear of moving swings to avoid contact and possible
injury.
      (9)   Slides.
         (a)   Slide feet first only; and
         (b)   No running or walking up slide.
      (10)   Climbers. No pushing, running or shoving.
   (B)   Violation of any of these rules can mean expulsion from the park.
   (C)   Broken equipment or anything that requires immediate attention, please
call the parks and recreation administrative office at 317-804-3184.
(Prior Code, § 44-7) (Ord. 21-37, passed 10-11-2021) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 THE HILL AT SIMON MOON PARK RULES OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The Hill at Simon Moon Park. Use of this facility may cause injury.
The city is not responsible for injuries. All rules stated in §
93.01 apply to the Hill at Simon Moon Park. In addition, the following rules
must be adhered to.
      (1)   Hours of operation. Hours of operation are daily from sunrise to
sunset.
      (2)   Risk. Use at your own risk. The city provides no supervision of
hill conditions or activities. Users assume full responsibility for determining
if conditions are safe.
      (3)   Supervision. Children are to be supervised by an adult.
      (4)   Sledding.
         (a)   Use of skis and snowboards is strictly prohibited.
         (b)   Standing on or overloading sleds is prohibited.
         (c)   Sled only in designated areas.
         (d)   Keep a safe distance from others when sledding.
         (e)   Wait for others to clear bottom before sledding.
         (f)   Exit bottom of hill promptly.
         (g)   Walk up hill on designated trails only.
         (h)   Construction of jumps, ramps or moguls is prohibited.
         (i)   No pets are allowed on the sledding hill.
      (5)   Prohibited. No bikes or motorized vehicles allowed on the hill at
any time.
   (B)   Violation of any of these rules can mean expulsion from the park.
   (C)   Broken equipment or anything that requires immediate attention should
be reported to the parks and recreation administrative office at 317-804-3184.
(Prior Code, § 44-8) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 GRAND JUNCTION PLAZA RULES OF OPERATION.
   (A)   All applicable state, federal and local laws, including, but not
limited to, laws governing vandalism, nuisance, litter, animal control, alcohol
and drugs will be enforced.
   (B)   All rules stated in §
93.01 apply to Grand Junction Plaza. In addition, the following rules, which
are specific to Grand Junction Plaza, must be adhered to. Questions concerning
these rules can be directed to the Westfield Parks and Recreation
Administration Office at 317-804-3184 during regular business hours.
      (1)   Park hours. Grand Junction Plaza is open Sunday through Wednesday
5:00 a.m. until 9:00 p.m., Thursday 5:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., and Friday and
Saturday 5:00 a.m. to 11:59 p.m., 365 days a year.
      (2)   Alcohol. The use of alcohol and/or possession of an open container
of alcohol is permitted within Grand Junction Plaza. This is contingent on the
park user following and not violating the provisions of the Indiana Criminal
Code regulating the use and sale of alcohol.
      (3)   Water ways. Grass Branch Creek, which flows through the Grand
Junction Plaza, is an attractive nuisance that poses a risk for injury or
death. Users who chose to enter the creek do so at their own risk, and each
user of Grass Branch Creek agrees to hold the city and its employees/agents
harmless from related damages and claims. The city is not responsible for any
injury that may occur, up to and including death.
      (4)   Animals. Any animal in a park must be restrained by a leash or lead
no longer than six feet. Pet owners must have and use a container or device for
the holding of their pet’s waste until it can be disposed of in a proper
receptacle. Violations will result in fines.
      (5)   Skate boards. The use of skate boards within the park is strictly
prohibited. Violations will result in fines.
      (6)   Bicycles. Bicycles should be parked at the appropriate bike racks
at the perimeter of the park and not ridden within the park. If a cyclist needs
to transport a bike through the park it is required that they dismount and walk
the bike through.
      (7)   Music entertainment. The use of radios, tape machines, CD players,
IPODS, live musical entertainment or amplification systems in a loud manner is
strictly regulated by Westfield Welcome and the parks administration. It will
be used in such a manner as to enhance the park users experience at Grand
Junction Plaza and will not interfere with the park neighbors.
      (8)   Stage. Organized use of the stage is regulated by Westfield Welcome
and the Westfield Parks and Recreation Department. Unorganized use and/or ad
lib use is strictly prohibited.
   (C)   Violation of any of these rules can mean expulsion from the park.
   (D)   Broken equipment or anything that requires immediate attention should
be reported to the parks and recreation administrative office at 317-804-3184.
(Prior Code, § 44-9) (Ord. 21-37, passed 10-11-2021) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.10 NON-CITY SPONSORED SPECIAL EVENTS IN CITY PARKS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   The Parks and Recreation Department assist in bringing group events
to the city that contribute to the community’s quality of life. In the
continuing efforts by the city to provide the public with quality recreational
choices in well maintained, clean and safe parks, the city has developed the
following standard operating procedures to review requests for special events
to be held in the city parks.
      (2)   Park facilities may be made available for non-park related uses
consistent with the policies herein and subject to availability.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SPECIAL EVENT. A group activity including, but not limited to, a
performance, meeting, assembly, contest, exhibit, ceremony, parade, athletic
competition, reading or picnic involving more people than an individual shelter
rental could accommodate or a group activity in which a specific park space is
requested to be reserved. SPECIAL EVENTS are not defined as casual park use by
visitors or tourists, or individual shelter rental.
   (C)   Uses.
      (1)   Priority shall be given to groups and individuals whose request
reflects significant community interest and general value. The Parks Director
or his or her designee will review and balance each request. The Parks Director
or designee reserves the right to refuse rental/use.
      (2)   Applicants wishing to use the park facilities shall meet
requirements as outlined in the eligible user groups as developed by the Parks
and Recreation Department.
   (D)   Consideration.
      (1)   Scheduling priority will be given according to the order indicated
below with Group 1 having the first priority and Group 4 having the last.
Scheduling will be on a first come, first served basis within a group. A Group
1 organization may bump a lower priority group with a one month or greater
notification.
      (2)   In order to recover some of the costs associated with special
events, special event public safety and maintenance fees may be charged.
      (3)   The Parks Director reserves the right to waive rental fees.
      (4)   Facilities shall be available for only non-profit uses. Any
exceptions shall be at the sole discretion of the Parks Director or designee
and shall be evaluated by the benefit to the public.
      (5)   In an emergency, the Parks Department shall cooperate with
recognized state or federal agencies in the use of all park facilities without
charge, superceding all other scheduled events and uses.
      (6)   Special events such as weddings or funerals shall be scheduled
under exceptional conditions and as schedules allow.
      (7)   City employees wishing to host a special event other than a shelter
rental for individual use will adhere to this same policy.
   (E)   Eligible user groups.
Group 1: Direct city-related activities, e.g., city department meetings,
         classes, special events or activity
        No rental fee
        No maintenance fee
        No public safety fee
         Joint city-sponsored events, e.g., DWA, Washington Township Park
Group 2: Department, Hamilton County Park Departments, schools and education
         foundation, library
        No rental fee
        No maintenance fee
        No public safety fee
         Civic and service organizations and not-for-profits, e.g., Scouts, 4-
Group 3: H Clubs, youth athletics, youth organizations, Rotary, Lions, Kiwanis,
         churches, Chamber of Commerce, other community groups
        Rental fee
        Maintenance fee
        Public safety fee (if necessary)
Group 4: Private businesses, organizations and citizens, acceptable events will
         be determined by Parks and Recreation Director
        Rental fee
        Maintenance fee
        Public safety fee (if necessary)
 
   (F)   Application procedure.
      (1)   (a)   All requests should be made in writing on the permit for
special event use form and submitted to the parks and recreation administration
office at a minimum of 30 days prior to the use. Applications are available
online at the Westfield Parks and Recreation website below; at City Service
Center - Customer Service and at the Westfield Parks and Recreation
Administration Office.
http://www.westfield.in.gov/parks
         (b)   Please note: if a large scale event (an event with estimated
500+ people in attendance) is being proposed you may need as much as a year’s
preparation.
      (2)   The application must state the specific time and date of the event
as well as all facility needs to be furnished by the city.
      (3)   The Parks Director will determine the merits of the application and
availability of the location. A copy of the signed application will be given to
the Fire Department, Police Department and the Public Works Department for
their comments regarding public safety and if any public safety and maintenance
fees will be charged.
      (4)   Upon approval of the special event, all rental, maintenance and
public safety fees will be invoiced with the due date indicated on the invoice.
      (5)   A refundable damage deposit of $500 is required for all special
events. If alcohol is served, the deposit increases to $1,000. The damage
deposit should be paid with a separate check from any rental and public safety
fees. Renters agree to be responsible for any additional charges incurred or
damages caused by renter’s activities.
      (6)   Upon receipt of certificate of insurance (please see division (G)
below) and payment of damage deposit and fees, a copy of the approved
application will be returned to serve as the permit.
      (7)   Permits granted may be subject to cancellation at any time by the
Parks Director or his or her designee.
   (G)   Insurance and liability.
      (1)   Any group using the city parks for any purpose must provide a
certificate of insurance showing proof of liability insurance in the amount of
$100,000 property damage per occurrence and $1,000,000 bodily injury per
occurrence naming the city as an additional insured.
      (2)   The requesting party shall protect and hold harmless the city and
its elected officials, employees, staff and representatives, and each of them,
from any and all claims, suits, liabilities, damages or causes of action of any
kind, provided such person was acting in the discharge of his/her duties.
   (H)   Rules and regulations.
      (1)   Applicants shall comply with all rules of park operations set forth
in this chapter. These rules are also posted on the Parks Department webpage
and available upon request.
      (2)   Holders of permits shall confine their use strictly to the specific
area approved and will not be permitted to use any other space, equipment or
apparatus unless it is approved in the application.
      (3)   The applicant and his or her organization shall be held strictly
accountable for complying with the rules and regulations that govern use of the
city parks, and shall be responsible for damages, losses or accidents, which
might occur while the organization is using the site. If proper care is not
exercised, the continued use of the city parks may be denied.
      (4)   The sponsoring organization must provide adequate supervision and
must ensure visitors use only the areas approved for rental/use. The
organization will also provide all necessary supporting personnel such as
medical personnel, parking attendants, set up and cleanup crews. A public
safety fee may be charged if these services are deemed necessary to be provided
by the city.
      (5)   It is the sole responsibility of the user to secure additional
trash receptacles or have trash hauled away if park containers will not
accommodate the needs of the event. Trash that is not disposed of properly or
overfills a receptacle may result in a loss of deposit. The parks and
recreation administration will determine if the size of the event requires a
rental of an outside dumpster. Dumpsters are only to be placed in designated
areas approved by the parks and recreation administration.
      (6)   The sponsoring organization is required to provide portable
restrooms if the special event will have attendance of over 500 persons. The
requirement is one portable restroom per 500 attendees. At least one in every
three rented must be handicap accessible. Delivery must be at the latest date
and time possible prior to the event and removed from park property no later
than 24 hours after the event. The Parks and Recreation Department is not
responsible for any damage to portable restrooms. Portable restrooms are to be
placed only in designated areas approved by parks and recreation
administration. Vendors are responsible for any water supply hoses.
      (7)   Vehicles are not allowed on park property not designated for
parking. Deliveries or setup needs that require a vehicle to enter the park
must be approved in advance by the parks and recreation administration.
      (8)   The sponsoring organization is responsible for providing
information if tents are being proposed and calling in and arranging for both
public and private utility locates to prevent interference with irrigation,
fiber and utility infrastructures.
      (9)   Users are encouraged to exercise universal precautions (universal
precautions refer to the practice, in medicine, of avoiding contact with bodily
fluids, by means of wearing medical gloves, goggles and face shields) and to
have the necessary emergency first aid kits issued to their members.
      (10)   A report of any personal injury must be submitted to the parks and
recreation administration office by the person securing the permit within 24
hours after an injury.
      (11)   Property damage must be reported immediately to the city
representative on duty, and an itemized list of any property damage must be
provided to the parks and recreation administrative office by the person
securing the permit within 24 hours after any such damage.
      (12)   No signs, displays or materials may be attached, nailed or
otherwise affixed to shelters, trees, buildings or existing signs.
      (13)   For temporary signage at locations outside of the park, or road
closures or blockages, the sponsoring organization must obtain an encroachment
permit through the Community Development Department, which may carry an
additional fee. The encroachment permit application is available online at
www.westfield.in.gov or at the city service center. Please allow ten working
days from receipt for approval.
      (14)   No park fixtures may be moved without consent of the Parks
Director.
      (15)   The use of special equipment, including, but not limited to,
cooking equipment, musical instruments, and public address systems and sports
equipment will be reviewed per application.
      (16)   Alcohol use is restricted and will be reviewed per application.
All necessary licensing and insurance is required. If approved, the damage
deposit increases from $500 to $1,000.
      (17)   Use of the park facilities will be terminated if the city
determines the use is being diminished or compromised by the rental
organization.
      (18)   No group may monopolize more space and time than is needed to meet
the needs of the approved event.
      (19)   Failure to comply with these rules and regulation will be
sufficient reason to cancel future privileges.
      (20)   No park facility may be used for a special event without the
presence of a city representative.
   (I)   Fees and charges. See §
93.08.
(Prior Code, § 44-10) (Ord. 14-23, passed 6-9-2014; Ord. 21-37, passed 10-11-
2021)
§ 93.11 GEO-CACHING.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide rules, regulations
and guidance for the management of geo-caching activities on Parks and
Recreation Department properties. Any person who participates is subject to all
parks and recreation rules and regulations. Geo-caching is an activity that
requires a permit so that the Parks and Recreation Department staff can monitor
the activity within park boundaries and prevent any detrimental impact on the
parks themselves, as well as protect the safety of all park visitors.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CACHE. A container that is used in association with the activity of geo-
caching. The object usually contains such items as a logbook, pen, pencil, map
and/or trinkets.
      DEPARTMENT. The Westfield Parks and Recreation Department.
      GEO-CACHING. A game pursued by global positioning systems (GPS) users. An
individual or organization places a cache and shares its location on the
internet. A participant in the game applies for GPS coordinates to locate the
target cache or caches. When located, the participant records the find on the
designated website such as www.geocaching.com. The game may provide that
objects are traded at the cache.
      MULTI-CACHE. Refers to containers that are located from the information
received in another cache.
      PROPERTY. Refers to any property owned, leased or maintained by the Parks
and Recreation Department.
   (C)   Permit application.
      (1)   A person wishing to place a cache within one of the Department’s
properties must obtain an “official geo-caching permit” before placing the
cache. A cache which has been placed without obtaining a permit from the
Department will be removed and may be returned to the owner. If the owner
cannot be reached, the cache will then be disposed of by the Department staff
within one month of notification.
      (2)   The Department administration is authorized to issue, condition or
deny any permit application.
      (3)   The application may be obtained from and returned to the
Department’s administration office. Applications will be reviewed within one
week of receipt.
      (4)   Permits are good for two years from issuing date.
   (D)   General prohibitions, limitations and requirements. The following
applies to the placement of any cache and/or any geo-caching activity.
      (1)   A person must not violate any Department rules or regulations, or
any local, state or federal laws.
      (2)   Areas within parks that contain any of the following may not
qualify for placement of geo-caches:
         (a)   Areas containing environmentally sensitive ecosystems;
         (b)   Areas containing historical sites; and
         (c)   Areas containing endangered flora or fauna.
      (3)   A person must not dig or otherwise disrupt the ground when placing
a cache.
      (4)   The Department is not required to approve any multi-cache, but may
approve a multi-cache with no more than four stops within the multi-cache.
      (5)   The maximum number of caches per Parks and Recreation Department
properties is up to the discretion of the Department’s administration.
      (6)   The person who holds the permit must inspect the cache at least
once every six months to ensure that it meets all permit criteria. During the
inspection, the permit holder must remove any inappropriate items. These
include, but are not limited to; food, alcohol, firearms, drugs, items not
suitable for minors, or other items which may pose a danger to people or
wildlife.
      (7)   An official geo-caching permit expires two years after the date of
issue.
   (E)   Permit standards. The Department administration shall exercise
reasonable discretion in determining whether to issue, condition or deny an
application for an official geo-caching permit. In the exercise of discretion,
the following factors and principles apply.
      (1)   A cache cannot be approved for placement in any sensitive
archaeological, historical or ecological area.
      (2)   Any schedule resource management activity, such as prescribed burns
and species eradication, shall be considered in evaluating a permit
application.
      (3)   A cache cannot be approved for placement in an area that could
reasonably cause danger to a geo-caching participant or to any other person who
visits a Department property.
      (4)   The Department administration has the right to require a person
requesting an official geo-caching permit to provide a photograph of the cache,
the exact site and coordinates where the cache is placed, or both.
      (5)   Any factor reasonably consistent with proper use and protection of
the particular site.
   (F)   Permit suspension or revocation and site reclamation.
      (1)   The Department may suspend or revoke a geo-caching permit if a term
is violated, or if the location of the cache is found to pose a threat to the
safety of park visitors or the surrounding environment. The Department shall
make every attempt to notify the permit holder of the action, as well as any
designated websites.
      (2)   Upon the suspension, revocation or termination of a geo-caching
permit, the permit holder is responsible for the removal of the cache, for the
site restoration, and for any associated expenses.
      (3)   The reason for the Department’s actions shall be recorded on the
permit. If the permit holder elects to relocate the cache, a new permit will
need to be reviewed and issued.
(Prior Code, § 44-11) (Ord. 21-37, passed 10-11-2021) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.12 TREE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Purpose. Trees are a major asset as they add beauty to the city
properties. Trees also save the community money by shading buildings, filtering
air, slowing down water run-off and adding to the property values of individual
homes. The city also recognizes that if trees are not maintained, they can
become a major detriment. It is for this reason that the city realizes a need
for a tree inspection policy. The Parks and Recreation Department will
implement and manage this policy for the city.
   (B)   Tree inspection policy.
      (1)   The policy.
         (a)   The city recognizes a need to inspect trees within its managed
grounds. The Parks and Recreation Department (hereafter called Department)
intends to inspect trees within the city’s managed grounds pursuant to the
policy.
         (b)   To perform this function, the Department has developed an active
policy to maintain the safety of city-managed grounds, keeping them free from
potentially hazardous trees, by timely removal of any tree or tree part deemed
hazardous. To assist in assessing the condition of its trees, the Department
proposes to train maintenance and other pertinent staff members on the
principles of visual tree assessment (VTA).
         (c)   Since the city has limited fiscal and human resources, the
removal of high risk trees shall be done on a risk priority basis. The Parks
Director will administer this policy and have the final determination in all
matters concerning the mitigation measures to be taken for any tree deemed
potentially hazardous.
      (2)   Standard of care. The Parks Director further determines the
following as a standard of care related to this policy.
         (a)   Oversight of policy. The Parks Director in overseeing this
policy directs the Department to have the day-to-day (or general) oversight of
this policy. A report should be prepared for the Board of Public Works and
Safety/Tree Board at their spring board meeting.
         (b)   Objectives of policy. The goal of this policy is to protect the
residents, city employees, visitors and general public from harm that might be
caused by trees on the city’s properties, rights-of-way, common areas, grounds
and/or other managed properties. To protect the woodland feel of the city’s
grounds this policy will strive to:
            1.   Maintain the integrity of the woodland feel that provides
beauty to city properties;
            2.   Increase ecologic benefits to the community in the way of
water retention, air cleansing, heat reduction and increased property values;
and
            3.   Provide an excellent offset for some of the carbon usage that
the city consumes. Note: It should be noted that this policy and standard of
care is formalizing the practices and procedures that have been taking place
for many years, as the city has worked to provide safe premises.
      (3)   Means of inspection. Due to the magnitude of the woodland element
of the city grounds, this policy will be performed by the use of an
internationally recognized technique called visual tree assessment (VTA). The
Department proposes to train its maintenance staff members in the elements of
VTA so that they can better recognize trees that are structurally unsound and
are in need of attention. The Department staff will be required to attend
training in VTA prior to starting inspections. Training will be available to
other city employees.
         (a)   The Department maintenance staff will use the VTA outline and
inspection document attached as (Exhibit 1) to Ordinance 10-28.
            1.   Visual tree assessment. (VTA) encompasses visual and physical
assessment for each tree. Typically, the tree is identified, described, and,
sometimes photographed. Findings of the assessment are noted with recommended
next steps, such as maintenance, follow-up, monitoring or no action. Areas to
be assessed for overall tree health and safety factors are:
               a.   The ground around the root flare (area where the roots are
growing underground);
               b.   The root flare itself (sometimes looks like an “elephant’s
foot”);
               c.   The hole or trunk of the tree (also sometimes called the
stem);
               d.   The limb junctions (where limbs branch off of the trunk);
               e.   The scaffold branches (big limbs which make up the crown of
the tree);
               f.   The branches (attached to scaffold branches);
               g.   Twigs and fruit that could cause slip and fall accidents;
and
               h.   Miscellaneous hazards, such as thorns, low hanging branch
and line-of-sight conflicts that impede the safe flow of traffic.
            2.   Red flags. A visual tree assessment looks for:
               a.   Obviously rotted, dead or decayed limbs, trunks or roots;
               b   Large holes in trunk;
               c.   Broken limbs;
               d.   Lightning damage;
               e.   Storm damage;
               f.   Insect infestation;
               g.   Wind damage;
               h.   Improper trimming or aberrant growth;
               i.   Trees too close to the road; and
               j.   Line-of-sight obstructed by vegetation.
         (b)   The city also desires a second level of expertise so it proposes
to continue to work with a registered consulting arborist, or the equivalent,
to assist in assessing trees that are beyond individual staff members’ level of
expertise. This second level may include the use of, climbing arborist
assessment, drill test or other means as necessary and agreed upon by the Parks
Director.
         (c)   The Department will be encouraged to provide and gather
additional information. To do this the Department proposes to:
            1.   Educate future park’s board members, the Tree Board,
Department maintenance staff, and other city employees to look for and report
tree problems;
            2.   Place a notice in city newsletters, seeking community
comments. “We are attempting to regularly inspect our trees so please feel free
to alert the Westfield Parks and Recreation Department if you see any tree that
raises concern.”; and
            3.   Place a notice and the tree inspection policy on the Westfield
Parks and Recreation Department website.
         (d)   The Parks Director authorizes and recommends:
            1.   A twice annual window/walking inspection by the Department
staff with the intent to recognize trees of concern;
            2.   A window/walking inspection following any major weather event;
and
            3.   A bi-annual walking-window inspection by a registered
consulting arborist or equivalent.
      (4)   Standard of assessment.
         (a)   The Department proposes to use the following assessment scale so
that trees may be dealt with on a fiscally responsible basis.
         (b)   The scale:
            1.   Excellent tree: requires no care;
            2.   Good tree: requires little care;
            3.   Fair tree: may require future attention;
            4.   Poor tree: will require attention as time evolves; and
            5.   Trees needing mitigation.
               a.   ASAP: needs immediate care;
               b.   Needs further assessment by consulting arborist;
               c.   Priority: needs care faster than maintenance schedule; and
               d.   Routine: can be done as part of annual maintenance.
      (5)   Parks and Recreation Department tree inspection policy funding.
         (a)   Assessment scale number fives will be scheduled and funded by
the parks and recreation’s service contractual budget and as funding is
available.
         (b)   Trees with assessment value of four will be treated as funds
allow.
      (6)   Documentation of history of care. The Parks Director determines
that this policy should be documented using WestPoint and by establishing a
chronological tree inspection policy file in a tree inspection policy (TIP)
binder. The documentation should be a progressive file to show the history of
care. Documents to be kept are:
         (a)   Copies of all invoices for work performed on the trees;
         (b)   Documentation of any grants concerning trees or care;
         (c)   All Department maintenance staff efforts to inspect and/or
mitigate potentially hazardous situations;
         (d)   Copies of letters sent, articles published or any other means to
educate community;
         (e)   Any reports by outside consultants;
         (f)   Postings on websites or in utility bills; and
         (g)   Any other notifications.
      (7)   Bodily injury. In case of an incident with bodily injury the Parks
Director directs the Department staff to:
         (a)   Seek immediate emergency care for injured party;
         (b)   Notify the Police Department;
         (c)   Notify the Parks Director;
         (d)   Take photos of the tree (or tree part) prior to removal from
incident site; and
         (e)   Complete a liability loss form located in West Point HR library
of forms in its entirety and notifies the Parks Director when completed.
      (8)   Media communication. Inquiries from the news media are given a high
priority by the city and should be directed to the communications division as
quickly and efficiently as possible. Every effort should be made to ensure that
all information which is transferred to the communications division is
accurate. Responding to media inquiries will be the sole responsibility of the
communications division and no comments should be made without the assistance
or prior approval from the communications division.
(Prior Code, § 44-13) (Ord. 21-37, passed 10-11-2021)
§ 93.13 TRAIL ACCESS PERMIT POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The trails throughout the city are for the enjoyment of the
residents and visitors to our community. The Parks and Recreation Department
must assure safe access to the trails for public and private use.
      (2)   The city is responsible for maintaining all named trails and linear
parks specified in the alternative transportation plan in the Westfield
Thoroughfare Plan and in Trail Overlay Zoning Ordinance, and it is therefore
necessary to set minimum standards for construction of all improvements for
which the city will be responsible in order to avoid assuming unnecessary
maintenance cost and inconvenience to the citizens and businesses of the city.
      (3)   In order to not compromise the drainage along trails, the Director
of Parks and Recreation may require an engineered drainage plan to be submitted
from a licensed engineering firm. Such a plan will be at the cost of the
applicant.
      (4)   All improvements intended for public or private use to be
constructed on the city’s named trail corridors as a privately maintained
improvement must be approved by the Director of Parks and Recreation using this
permitting process.
      (5)   Anyone wishing to have access to the trails where a public access
point has not been provided by the city must complete the trail access permit
process.
   (B)   Authority.
      (1)   The Parks and Recreation Department has the legal responsibility
for managing all city parks and trail property. All trail access permits shall
be in accordance with this section and subject to the authority of the Director
of Parks and Recreation.
      (2)   The City Council shall hereby grant the Director of Parks and
Recreation the authority to approve trail access permits, as an agent of the
city.
      (3)   The Director shall have the right to appoint a deputy to perform
the duties of the trail access permit administration.
   (C)   Trail access permit procedures.
      (1)   Application.
         (a)   All trail access permit applications shall be in written form
using the trail access permit application (included in Exhibit A to Ordinance
12-38).
         (b)   The permit must be submitted and approved before any work can be
done on city property. No work will be allowed prior to the review. A penalty
fee of up to $500 will be enforced by the city with a stop work order for
unauthorized work performed before permits are approved.
         (c)   Upon review of the application, if it is found to be incomplete
or if an engineering plan is necessary, the applicant will be notified of what
documentation is required to process the application.
         (d)   If an engineering plan is required the application cannot be
considered until the engineering plan is received.
      (2)   Trail access detail.
         (a)   An 11 inches by 17 inches drawing of the proposed access point
must be included with the application;
         (b)   Site photographs showing the location of the proposed access
point and the proximity to the trail must be provided;
         (c)   Specifications and/or descriptions of the materials to be used
must be included with the application;
         (d)   A maintenance plan specific to the improvement planned at the
trail access location should be included. Areas of maintenance that should be
included, but are not limited to, are landscaping, hardscape and drainage; and
         (e)   Proof of property insurance.
      (3)   Notification.
         (a)   The applicant shall be notified after a review period of the
approval or denial of said plan.
         (b)   All written notification will be done by email or by U.S. mail.
         (c)   Approved permits will be mailed to the applicant once all
requirements are met and a written notification has been provided to the
applicant.
         (d)   Upon approval, a boundary sign will be placed at the trail
access location with the permit number and expiration date indicated.
      (4)   Permit life.
         (a)   A permit is good for two years for the original applicant only.
         (b)   If the property is sold, a new application must be submitted by
the new owners.
         (c)   Any changes to the original access permit design must be
resubmitted for approval before the changes can be made.
         (d)   The permit can be automatically renewed by the original
applicant if the following stipulations are met:
            1.   Access has been maintained per approved maintenance plan;
            2.   Proof of insurance is current and updated for additional year;
and
            3.   No problems have arisen as a result of the permit being
granted.
      (5)   Permit cancellation procedures.
         (a)   If at any time the requirements of the original permit are not
being met, the Director of Parks and Recreation can revoke the permit and
remove all improvements within the trail corridor.
         (b)   Any cost incurred by such removal will be charged to the
permittee, and fees may be accessed.
(Prior Code, § 44-14) (Ord. 21-37, passed 10-11-2021)
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 93.25 CREATION.
   Under I.C. 36-10-3 et seq., there is hereby created a municipal Department
of Parks and Recreation and a Board of Parks and Recreation under the same
statute.
(Ord. 24-08, passed 1-29-2024)
§ 93.26 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; VACANCIES; TERMS.
   (A)   (1)   The Parks and Recreation Board (“Board”) shall be composed of
four members appointed by the Mayor on the basis of their interest in and
knowledge of parks and recreation. No more than two members shall be of the
same political party. An additional member shall include one ex officio member
who is appointed by the Westfield-Washington School District (“District”), who
is either a member of the governing body of the District or an individual who
resides in the District.
      (2)   The governing body of the District shall fill any vacancies of its
ex officio members, as needed. Ex officio board members have all the rights of
regular members, including, but not limited to, the right to vote.
      (3)   After passage of this subchapter, there shall be appointed under
I.C. 36-4-9-2 a Director of Parks and Recreation, having the qualifications
required under I.C. 36-10-3-13(d).
   (B)   Upon establishment of the Board, the terms for those initially
appointed shall be:
      (1)   One member for a term of one year;
      (2)   One member for a term of two years;
      (3)   One member for a term of three years; and
      (4)   One member for a term of four years.
   (C)   As a term expires, each new appointment shall be made by the Mayor for
a term of four years. All terms expire on the first Monday in January, but a
member shall continue in office until a successor is appointed. If an
appointment for any new term is not made by the first Monday in April, the
incumbent shall serve another term. If a vacancy occurs, the Mayor shall
appoint a new member for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Ord. 24-08, passed 1-29-2024)
§ 93.27 PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT.
   At its first regular meeting each year, the Board shall elect a President
and Vice President. The Vice President shall have authority to act as the
President of the Board during the absence or disability of the President. The
Board may select a secretary from within or without its own membership.
(Ord. 24-08, passed 1-29-2024)
§ 93.28 POWERS.
   The Board shall have the power to perform all acts necessary to acquire and
develop sites and facilities and to conduct such programs as are generally
understood to be park and recreation functions. In addition, the Board shall
have all the powers listed in I.C. 36-10-3 et seq.
(Ord. 24-08, passed 1-29-2024)
§ 93.29 BUDGET.
   The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner as
other departments of the city. The Board may accept gifts, donations and
subsidies for park and recreation purposes, and the Clerk-Treasurer shall
provide assistance as needed for this and other purposes, as with any other
city department.
(Ord. 24-08, passed 1-29-2024)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
93.02 shall be subject to a fine of $25, for the first such offense, a fine of
$50, for the second offense and a fine of $100, plus costs, for all subsequent
offenses. This does not limit the authority of the court to impose additional
penalties as permitted by law.
(Prior Code, § 44-2)
   (C)   (1)   Any person, firm, corporation or any other entity that shall be
in violation of §
93.13, or any amendment thereto, shall receive a fine of not more than $500.
Each day an entry or access is made without the issuance of a proper permit
shall constitute a separate offense and each separate offense shall subject the
violator to a separate fine.
      (2)   A person, firm, corporation or any other entity that fails to
maintain the approved improvement in accordance with the access permit shall be
liable to the city in a civil action for damages in an amount equal to the cost
of court cost, litigation expenses and attorney fees incurred by the city.
(Prior Code, § 44-14)
   (D)   For §§
93.01 and
93.03 through
93.09, there is a $500 fine for damaging or defacing public property.
(Prior Code, §§ 44-1, 44-3, 44-4, 44-5, 44-6, 44-7, 44-8, 44-9)
(Ord. 11-12, passed 6-27-2011; Ord. 21-37, passed 10-11-2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOL
      
111.   TEMPORARY GREENHOUSE SALES
      
112.   FOOD VENDORS
      
113.   SECONDHAND ENTITIES
      
114.   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
      
115.   FIREWORKS
      
116.   DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION
      
117.   VEHICLES FOR HIRE
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOL
Section
Retailer Permits
   
110.01   Consent
Eligible Area Permits
   
110.15   Process for the issuance of permits
Downtown Designated Outdoor Refreshment Area
   
110.30   Definitions
   
110.31   Established
   
110.32   Street address boundaries
   
110.33   Relationship to zoning ordinance
   
110.34   Dates and hours of operation
   
110.35   Signage
   
110.36   Designated permittees
   
110.37   Vendors
   
110.38   Reserved rights
   
110.39   Means of separation
   
110.40   Open containers
   
110.41   Consumption
   
110.42   Additional regulations
   
110.43   Conflict with Indiana statute
Grand Park District Designated Outdoor Refreshment Area
   
110.50   Definitions
   
110.51   Established
   
110.52   Street address boundaries
   
110.53   Relationship to zoning ordinance
   
110.54   Dates and hours of operation
   
110.55   Signage
   
110.56   Designated permittees
   
110.57   Vendors
   
110.58   Reserved rights
   
110.59   Means of separation
   
110.60   Open containers
   
110.61   Consumption
   
110.62   Additional regulations
   
110.63   Conflict with Indiana statute
RETAILER PERMITS
§ 110.01 CONSENT.
   The city hereby consents that liquor retailer’s permits may be issued to
applicants with respect to premises located within the city pursuant to the
authority of I.C. 7.1-3-9-3.
(Prior Code, § 6-51)
ELIGIBLE AREA PERMITS
§ 110.15 PROCESS FOR THE ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   After due consideration the Council declares that the city desires to
implement the formal written commitment process for the issuance of permits in
the eligible area (Grand Junction Economic Development Area) under the Act
(I.C. 7.1-3-19 et seq.).
   (B)   Pursuant to the Act the city hereby authorizes the city staff to
utilize the forms and processes outlined by Exhibits A and B, attached hereto
and incorporated by reference herein as examples and requires any applicant to
adhere to any and all procedures adopted and required by the city as a
condition precedent to the issuance of a permit under the Act.
   (C)   The Council hereby requires applicants for alcoholic beverage permits
in the eligible area to complete and submit the local application, in a form
substantially similar as is attached to this section as Exhibit A.
   (D)   Staff of the city are hereby authorized and directed to take any and
all steps necessary and reasonable, including revising Exhibits A and B from
time to time, as deemed prudent to carry out the intent and purpose of this
section.
   (E)   The Westfield Liquor License Review Committee shall consist of three
members: one appointed by the Mayor; one by the Council; and the Economic and
Community Development Director.
Exhibit A: Application
Liquor License Written Commitment Request
Business Entity Making this Application:
Applicant’s Name: ________________________________________________________
Applicant’s Address: _______________City:_______________ State: _________ Zip:
_________
(Address must be within the Grand Junction Economic Development Area)
Applicant’s Phone (daytime):____________________ Email: ____________________
   1.   In addition to the floor plan required in Step 7 of the Indiana ATC form
please include:
      a.   Any plans you have to improve the facility in which you will operate.
      b.   The expected timetable for work and business commencement.
   2.   Explain the overall concept and unique features of the proposed
establishment.
   3.   Describe the level of control and participation the owners will have in the
day to day operation of the business.
   4.   Describe how your operation will focus on a dining entertainment or cultural
experience rather than an alcohol consumption experience.
   5.   Explain any past restaurant experience you have had or other means by which
the Liquor License Review Committee will be able to obtain information on your
preparedness for this venture.
   6.   Please outline any other factors that will aid the Liquor License Review
Committee in the consideration of your application.
   7.   Please provide information on the number and character of jobs this operation
will add to or be retained within the City of Westfield.
   8.   Explain how you will work with the community to market your restaurant and
the community.
   9.   Describe how your venue/operation will draw people to Westfield specifically
the Economic Development Area.
   10.   Please verify that you do not currently hold or have held an active 3-way
license for this location within the past 12 months.
   11.   Please list all current alcoholic beverage permits held by the applicant in
all 50 states.
   12.   Describe your estimated minimum food or sales?
   13.   Describe the minimum number of days per year the restaurant will be open for
business?
   14.   Describe the days of the week the restaurant will be open for business?
Please submit this form and all attachments to:
Westfield Liquor License Review Committee: _________________________
Please attach:
   1.   Your completed Indiana State form entitled “Application for New or Transfer
Permit” along with any attachments.
   2.   A signed copy of the written commitments.
   3.   A copy of the executive summary of your business plan (should include
financial and ownership strengths).
   4.   A copy of your proposed permanent signage.
   5.   A tentative menu.
   6.   Proof of insurance.
Permits are revocable not transferable not portable and a recommendation for renewal
is subject to compliance with the terms of these local rules and any agreement
negotiated with the Westfield Liquor License Review Committee. The permits shall not
be pledged as collateral or subject to any lien, judgment, property settlement
agreement or third party claim.
To evaluate applications the Liquor License Review Committee will consider the extent
to which the proposal advances the recommendations objectives and vision of the Grand
Junction Economic Development Area as set forth in the:
   1.   Family Sports Capital Addendum to the Westfield-Washington Township
Comprehensive Plan;
   2.   Family Sports Capital Addendum II to the Westfield-Washington Township
Comprehensive Plan;
   3.   Grand Junction Implementation Plan an Addendum to the Westfield-Washington
Township Comprehensive Plan;
   4.   Grand Junction Addendum: Sub-Districts of the Grand Junction; and
   5.   Westfield Redevelopment Commission Resolution No. 2-2009: Declaratory
Resolution of the Westfield Redevelopment Commission Regarding the Grand Junction
Economic Development Area as amended.
APPLICANT’S CERTIFICATION
The Applicant certifies that all information in this application and all information
furnished in support of this application are true and complete to the best of the
Applicant’s knowledge and belief. I have read and understand the procedures and agree
to follow the Westfield Liquor License Review Committee Process. I am submitting
documentation as requested.
Applicant’s Signature: ____________________ Date: ____________________
Exhibit B
City of Westfield
   I.C. 7.1-3-20-16.8 Non-transferrable, Revocable Alcoholic Beverage Permit
Written Commitments
I, ____________________, certify, promise and commit that:
   •   All information provided by me on the Liquor License Written Commitment Request
Application (the “Application”) is true and accurate in all material respects and the
same is incorporated herein and made a part hereof.
   •   The business activities and operations to be conducted on the premises described
in the Application will not change in any material respect prior to receipt of written
approval from the Westfield Liquor License Review Committee authorizing the change.
   •   I understand failure to receive approval for a change in business activities and
operations would be a violation of these written commitments and may result in the
Westfield Liquor License Review Committee recommending revocation of the liquor license
or recommending that the license should not be renewed.
   •   I understand and agree that these commitments are binding on the alcoholic
beverage permit holder and on any lessee or proprietor of the permit premises and agree
to include and incorporate a copy of these commitments in any lease or proprietor
agreement with respect to the premises.
   •   I understand and acknowledge that if business operations cease at the permit
premises for more than six (6) months, the permit shall revert to the alcoholic
beverage commission and the permit holder will not be entitled to any refund or other
commission.
   •   I understand and agree that an alcoholic beverage permit issued pursuant to I.C.
7.1-3-20-16.8 cannot be transferred from the premises for which the permit was issued.
   •   I understand and agree that there is no limit or restriction to the length of
time these written commitments are binding on the undersigned, but these written
commitments shall automatically terminate at the time a permit is revoked or not
renewed.
_________________________
By:_______________________
Its:______________________
 
(Prior Code, § 6-71) (Ord. 16-18, passed 6-27-2016)
DOWNTOWN DESIGNATED OUTDOOR REFRESHMENT AREA
§ 110.30 DEFINITIONS.
   All definitions established in I.C. 7.1-3-31 et seq., as may be amended or
revised from time to time, shall apply throughout this subchapter.
(Ord. 24-34, passed 6-24-2024)
§ 110.31 ESTABLISHED.
   As authorized by I.C. 7.1-3-31-8, the Council hereby designates and
establishes the Downtown Westfield Designated Outdoor Refreshment Area
("Downtown Westfield DORA"), as reflected in the map attached to Ord. 24-34 as
Exhibit A, which is approved and adopted by the Council and incorporated herein
by reference.
(Ord. 24-34, passed 6-24-2024)
§ 110.32 STREET ADDRESS BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries (by street address) of the Downtown Westfield DORA are as
follows:
      Point of beginning is the southwest corner of 17440 Westfield Blvd, then
heading north following the eastern right-of-way line of US Hwy 31 to the
southern right-of-way line of State Highway 32. Then following the southern
right-of-way line State Highway 32 approximately 1,660 feet to a point on the
northern parcel line of 170 Jersey Street. Then heading north to the northwest
corner of 120-D Camilla Court, then east to the southeast corner of 200 Camilla
Court, then south to the northwest corner of 135 N. Union Street. Then
following an eastern bearing to the northwest corner of 136 N. Union Street and
continuing east along the southern right-of-way line of Penn Street to the
northeast corner of 420 E Main Street. Then north to the northwest corner of
135 Hillcrest Drive, then east to the northeast corner of 135 Hillcrest Drive,
then south to the southern right-of-way line of State Highway 32, then
following the State Highway 32 right-of-way line west to the eastern right-of-
way line of E Park Street. Then heading south to the northwest corner of 411
Amberleaf Trail, then heading west to the northwest corner of 160 Midland Trace
Loop, then heading north to the northeast corner of 302 S. Union Street, then
following a northwestern bearing to the northeast corner of 229 S. Union
Street, then south to the northeast corner of 323 S. Union Street, then west to
the northwest corner of 323 S. Union Street. Then following a southwest bearing
to the western corner of 137 Baldwin Court, then heading west to the northeast
corner of 17340 Westfield Boulevard, then north following the western right-of-
way line of Westfield Boulevard to the northeast corner of 421 Park Street.
Then heading west to the northwest corner of 421 Park Street, then south to the
southeast corner of 17440 Westfield Boulevard, then west to the point of
beginning.
(Ord. 24-34, passed 6-24-2024)
§ 110.33 RELATIONSHIP TO ZONING ORDINANCE.
   The Common Council finds and states that the Downtown Westfield DORA is
consistent with the City of Westfield's zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 24-34, passed 6-24-2024)
§ 110.34 DATES AND HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The dates and hours of operation of the Downtown Westfield DORA are
established as follows: January 1—December 31, Monday through Thursday from 12:
00 p.m. (noon) to 10:00 p.m. and Friday through Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 11:00
p.m. The dates and hours of the Downtown Westfield DORA operation may not
violate I.C. 7.1-3-1-14.
(Ord. 24-34, passed 6-24-2024)
§ 110.35 SIGNAGE.
   (A)   The Council hereby adopts the number, spacing, and type of signage
designating the Downtown Westfield DORA, and additional minimum standards
regarding signage, all of which is attached to Ord. 24-34 as Exhibit C and
Exhibit D. The city is hereby directed to place conforming signage at, but not
limited to, the following locations within the Downtown Westfield DORA:
      (1)   Intersections on the boundary;
      (2)   Major sidewalks along the boundary;
      (3)   Potential points of gathering near the boundary;
      (4)   Areas of congregation; and
      (5)   Where appropriate to confer the message.
   (B)   Additional signage regarding the Downtown Westfield DORA may be
warranted and necessary, and Exhibit C and Exhibit D of Ord. 24-34 reflect
minimum signage standards. Therefore, the city staff is hereby authorized and
granted full authority to increase the number and/or change the type of signage
in their sole discretion.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 7.1-3-31-16, appropriate signage shall be posted at
each exit of a designated permittee and on the licensed premises of a vendor.
(Ord. 24-34, passed 6-24-2024)
§ 110.36 DESIGNATED PERMITTEES.
   (A)   The following retailer permittees have licensed premises within the
Downtown Westfield DORA and have submitted completed applications to the city
to participate in the Downtown Westfield DORA as designated permittees. The
location of each retailer permittee is indicated on the map attached to Ord.
24-34 as Exhibit A. The city finds that each listed retailer permittee is an
appropriate designated permittee, and requests that the Indiana Alcohol and
Tobacco Commission issue each a refreshment area designation pursuant to I.C.
7.1-3-31-9(b):
      (1)   12-05 Distillery, LLC (d/b/a Four Finger Distillery): 120 Camilla
Court;
      (2)   228 Park Street LLC (d/b/a Chiba): 228 Park Street;
      (3)   Field Artisan Brewing, LLC (d/b/a Field Brewing): 303 E. Main
Street;
      (4)   High Nine, LLC (d/b/a Westfield Wine Vault): 100 N. Union Street;
      (5)   Kedge LLC (d/b/a Jan's Village Pizza): 108 S. Union Street;
      (6)   Nyla's, LLC: 211 Park Street;
      (7)   Something Splendid, LLC: 217 Mill Street;
      (8)   The Italian House on Park: 219 Park Street; and
      (9)   Westfield Greek's LLC (Greeks Pizzeria): 231 Park Street.
   (B)   Designated permittees shall comply with applicable public health and
safety requirements established by ordinance for the Downtown Westfield DORA.
   (C)   Any additional retailer permittee with licensed premises located
within the Downtown Westfield DORA that desires to be designated as a
designated permittee and granted a refreshment area designation shall submit a
request and completed DORA Designation Form (State Form 57288; attached to Ord.
24-34 as Exhibit B) to the city, which may be approved by resolution of the
Council.
(Ord. 24-34, passed 6-24-2024)
§ 110.37 VENDORS.
   Any establishment that desires to obtain a temporary vendor designation to
participate in an event or festival within the Downtown Westfield DORA shall
first obtain a vendor designation. To be designated as a vendor within the
Downtown Westfield DORA, the establishment shall submit a special event permit
application and the DORA Designation Form (State Form 57288; attached to Ord.
24-34 as Exhibit B) to the city for each event. The Council may approve a DORA
Designation Form for a vendor by resolution. A vendor's location may be at any
or all of the designated areas within the Downtown Westfield DORA as shown in
Exhibit A of Ord. 24-34, subject to approval of the special event permit and
DORA Designation Form. Vendors shall comply with applicable public health and
safety requirements established by ordinance for the Downtown Westfield DORA.
(Ord. 24-34, passed 6-24-2024)
§ 110.38 RESERVED RIGHTS.
   Nothing herein shall prohibit a business, landlord, or other establishment
from prohibiting individuals from entering the premises or business with open
containers of alcoholic beverages, or from prohibiting individuals from
entering the premises or business with alcoholic beverages purchased from
another establishment. The city maintains full authority and control over the
sidewalks and common areas, and no one may prohibit or limit open containers in
accordance with I.C. 7.1-3-31 et seq. within the Downtown Westfield DORA, aside
from the City of Westfield Police Department.
(Ord. 24-34, passed 6-24-2024)
§ 110.39 MEANS OF SEPARATION.
   Upon receipt of refreshment area designation from the Indiana Alcohol and
Tobacco Commission, a designated permittee shall remove all stanchions,
fencing, or other means of separation previously required by law from all
common areas, sidewalks, and city right-of-way, as provided by I.C. 7.1-3-31-
15. Glass containers may be allowed in a designated permittee's outdoor dining
area, but may not be removed from those dining areas into the Downtown
Westfield DORA.
(Ord. 24-34, passed 6-24-2024)
§ 110.40 OPEN CONTAINERS.
   All designated permittees and vendors within the Downtown Westfield DORA may
allow a person to exit the licensed premises with not more than two open
containers of an alcoholic beverage at a time, and consume the alcoholic
beverages within the Downtown Westfield DORA. The contents of an open container
may not exceed the following:
   (A)   Beer or flavored malt beverage of not more than 16 ounces;
   (B)   Wine, cider, or hard seltzer of not more than 12 ounces; and
   (C)   A mixed drink of not more than ten ounces containing not more than two
ounces of liquor.
(Ord. 24-34, passed 6-24-2024)
§ 110.41 CONSUMPTION.
   Pursuant to I.C. 7.1-3-31 et seq., a person may consume an alcoholic
beverage purchased from a designated permittee or vendor anywhere within the
Downtown Westfield DORA boundaries, subject to the right of any retailer
permittee or business within the Downtown Westfield DORA to refuse to allow
individuals to enter the licensed premises or business with an alcoholic
beverage. A person may not consume an alcoholic beverage within the Downtown
Westfield DORA that was purchased outside of the Downtown Westfield DORA.
(Ord. 24-34, passed 6-24-2024)
§ 110.42 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   The additional regulations established in Exhibit C of Ord. 24-34 shall
apply within the Downtown Westfield DORA.
(Ord. 24-34, passed 6-24-2024)
§ 110.43 CONFLICT WITH INDIANA STATUTE.
   Should any part of this subchapter be found in conflict with I.C. 7.1-3-31
et seq., the terms of I.C. 7.1-3-31 et seq., as may be amended or revised from
time to time, shall prevail. Should any parts of this subchapter be found
unconstitutional or illegal, the remaining parts shall survive and be in full
effect.
(Ord. 24-34, passed 6-24-2024)
GRAND PARK DISTRICT DESIGNATED OUTDOOR REFRESHMENT AREA
§ 110.50 DEFINITIONS.
   All definitions established in I.C. 7.1-3-31 et seq., as may be amended or
revised from time to time, shall apply throughout this subchapter.
(Ord. 25-08, passed 2-24-2025)
§ 110.51 ESTABLISHED.
   As authorized by I.C. 7.1-3-31-8, the Council hereby designates and
establishes the Grand Park District Designated Outdoor Refreshment Area ("Grand
Park District DORA"), as reflected in the map attached to Ord. 25-08 as Exhibit
A, which is approved and adopted by the Council and incorporated herein by
reference.
(Ord. 25-08, passed 2-24-2025)
§ 110.52 STREET ADDRESS BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries (by street address) of the Grand Park District DORA are as
follows:
      Point of beginning is the southeast corner of 343 W. 191st Street (Parcel
No. 08-05-26-00-00-555.555), then north to the southern right-of-way line of E.
191st Street, then east following the right-of-way line approximately 1,435
feet to a point on the western property line of 9 E. 191st Street, then
following a south-southeast bearing to the southwestern corner of 9 E. 191st
Street, then east approximately 680 feet to a point on the western parcel line
of 207 E. 191st Street, then south to the southwestern corner of 207 E. 191st
Street, then east along the southern parcel line to the southeastern corner of
207 E. 191st Street, then north approximately 630 feet back to the southern
right-of-way line of E. 191st Street. Then east following the right-of-way line
approximately 5,575 feet to the northwestern-most corner of 1313 E. 191st
Street. Then south to a point on the northern parcel line of Parcel No. 08-05-
25-00-00-053.000, then east along the parcel line to the northeast corner of
said parcel, then south to a point on the northern parcel line of 18449
Blackburn Road, then due west approximately 1,390 feet to the southeast corner
of 18606 N. Tomlinson Road. Then west to the southwest corner of 18606
Tomlinson Road, then north to the northwest corner of said parcel, then east to
the western right-of-way line of Tomlinson Road. Then south following the
western right-of-way line of Tomlinson Road to the southeast corner of 18606
Tomlinson Road. Then south following the western right-of-way line of Tomlinson
Road/Wheeler Road approximately 619 feet to the southeast corner of 1187 E.
186th Street, then west to the southwest corner of 1021 E. 186th Street, then
south to the southeast corner of 937 E. 186th Street, then west to the
southwest corner of 937 E. 186th Street, then southwest approximately 47 feet
to a point on the northern parcel line of Grand Park Village Lake (Parcel No.
08-05-36-00-02-004.000). Then west following the parcel line of the lake to the
eastern corner of 18325 John Dippel Boulevard, then southwest following the
parcel line to the northern right-of-way line of John Dippel Boulevard, then
northwest following the right-of-way line approximately 165 feet to a point on
the west parcel line of 18325 John Dippel Boulevard parallel to the southern
parcel line of Parcel No. 08-05-35-00-00-007.000. Then west following the
parcel line of said parcel to the southeast corner of the parcel, then north
approximately 1,384 feet to the northern right-of-way line of E. 186th Street.
Then west following the northern right-of-way line of E. 186th Street to a
point on the eastern parcel line of 320 W. 186th Street, then north to the
northeast corner of 320 W. 186th Street, then west to the eastern right-of-way
line of Spring Mill Road. Then north following the eastern right-of-way line of
Spring Mill Road to a point on the southern parcel line of 343 W. 191st Street,
the east to the point of beginning. Exclusive of the Monon Trail.
(Ord. 25-08, passed 2-24-2025)
§ 110.53 RELATIONSHIP TO ZONING ORDINANCE.
   The Common Council finds and states that the Grand Park District DORA is
consistent with the City of Westfield's zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 25-08, passed 2-24-2025)
§ 110.54 DATES AND HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The dates and hours of operation of the Grand Park District DORA are
established as follows: January 1—December 31, Monday through Thursday from 12:
00 p.m. (noon) to 10:00 p.m. and Friday through Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 11:00
p.m. The dates and hours of the Grand Park District DORA operation may not
violate I.C. 7.1-3-1-14.
(Ord. 25-08, passed 2-24-2025)
§ 110.55 SIGNAGE.
   (A)   The Council hereby adopts the number, spacing, and type of signage
designating the Grand Park District DORA, and additional minimum standards
regarding signage, all of which is attached to Ord. 25-08 as Exhibits C and D.
The city is hereby directed to place conforming signage at, but not limited to,
the following locations within the Grand Park District DORA:
      (1)   Intersections on the boundary;
      (2)   Major sidewalks along the boundary;
      (3)   Potential points of gathering near the boundary;
      (4)   Areas of congregation; and
      (5)   Where appropriate to confer the message.
   (B)   Additional signage regarding the Grand Park District DORA may be
warranted and necessary, and Exhibits C and D of Ord. 25-08 reflect minimum
signage standards. Therefore, the city staff is hereby authorized and granted
full authority to increase the number and/or change the type of signage in
their sole discretion.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 7.1-3-31-16, appropriate signage shall be posted at
each exit of a designated permittee and on the licensed premises of a vendor.
(Ord. 25-08, passed 2-24-2025)
§ 110.56 DESIGNATED PERMITTEES.
   (A)   The following retailer permittees have licensed premises within the
Grand Park District DORA and have submitted completed applications to the city
to participate in the Grand Park District DORA as designated permittees. The
location of each retailer permittee is indicated on the map attached to Ord.
25-08 as Exhibit A. The city finds that each listed retailer permittee is an
appropriate designated permittee, and requests that the Indiana Alcohol and
Tobacco Commission issue each a refreshment area designation pursuant to I.C.
7.1-3-31-9(b):
      The City of Westfield (d/b/a Grand Park Sports Campus): 19000 Grand Park
Boulevard.
   (B)   Designated permittees shall comply with applicable public health and
safety requirements established by ordinance for the Grand Park District DORA.
   (C)   Any additional retailer permittee with licensed premises located
within the Grand Park District DORA that desires to be designated as a
designated permittee and granted a refreshment area designation shall submit a
request and completed DORA Designation Form (State Form 57288; attached to Ord.
25-08 as Exhibit B) to the city, which may be approved by resolution of the
Council.
(Ord. 25-08, passed 2-24-2025)
§ 110.57 VENDORS.
   (A)   Any establishment that desires to obtain a temporary vendor
designation to participate in an event or festival within the Grand Park
District DORA shall first obtain a vendor designation. To be designated as a
vendor within the Grand Park District DORA, the establishment shall submit a
special event permit application and the DORA Designation Form (State Form
57288; attached to Ord. 25-08 as Exhibit B) to the city for each event. The
Council may approve a DORA Designation Form for a vendor by resolution. A
vendor's location may be at any or all of the designated areas within the Grand
Park District DORA as shown in Exhibit A of Ord. 25-08, subject to approval of
the special event permit and DORA Designation Form.
   (B)   Vendors shall comply with applicable public health and safety
requirements established by ordinance for the Grand Park District DORA.
(Ord. 25-08, passed 2-24-2025)
§ 110.58 RESERVED RIGHTS.
   Nothing herein shall prohibit a business, landlord, or other establishment
from prohibiting individuals from entering the premises or business with open
containers of alcoholic beverages, or from prohibiting individuals from
entering the premises or business with alcoholic beverages purchased from
another establishment. The city maintains full authority and control over the
sidewalks and common areas, and no one may prohibit or limit open containers in
accordance with I.C. 7.1-3-31 et seq. within the Grand Park District DORA,
aside from the City of Westfield Police Department.
(Ord. 25-08, passed 2-24-2025)
§ 110.59 MEANS OF SEPARATION.
   Upon receipt of refreshment area designation from the Indiana Alcohol and
Tobacco Commission, a designated permittee shall remove all stanchions,
fencing, or other means of separation previously required by law from all
common areas, sidewalks, and city right-of-way, as provided by I.C. 7.1-3-31-
15. Glass containers may be allowed in a designated permittee's outdoor dining
area, but may not be removed from those dining areas into the Grand Park
District DORA.
(Ord. 25-08, passed 2-24-2025)
§ 110.60 OPEN CONTAINERS.
   All designated permittees and vendors within the Grand Park District DORA
may allow a person to exit the licensed premises with not more than two open
containers of an alcoholic beverage at a time, and consume the alcoholic
beverages within the Grand Park District DORA. The contents of an open
container may not exceed the following:
   (A)   Beer or flavored malt beverage of not more than 16 ounces;
   (B)   Wine, cider, or hard seltzer of not more than 12 ounces; and
   (C)   A mixed drink of not more than ten ounces containing not more than two
ounces of liquor.
(Ord. 25-08, passed 2-24-2025)
§ 110.61 CONSUMPTION.
   Pursuant to I.C. 7.1-3-31 et seq., a person may consume an alcoholic
beverage purchased from a designated permittee or vendor anywhere within the
Grand Park District DORA boundaries, subject to the right of any retailer
permittee or business within the Grand Park District DORA to refuse to allow
individuals to enter the licensed premises or business with an alcoholic
beverage. A person may not consume an alcoholic beverage within the Grand Park
District DORA that was purchased outside of the Grand Park District DORA.
(Ord. 25-08, passed 2-24-2025)
§ 110.62 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   The additional regulations established in Exhibit C of Ord. 25-08 shall
apply within the Grand Park District DORA.
(Ord. 25-08, passed 2-24-2025)
§ 110.63 CONFLICT WITH INDIANA STATUTE.
   Should any part of this subchapter be found in conflict with I.C. 7.1-3-31
et seq., the terms of I.C. 7.1-3-31 et seq., as may be amended or revised from
time to time, shall prevail. Should any parts of this subchapter be found
unconstitutional or illegal, the remaining parts shall survive and be in full
effect.
(Ord. 25-08, passed 2-24-2025)
CHAPTER 111: TEMPORARY GREENHOUSE SALES
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Registration required
   
111.03   License registration requirements
   
111.04   License certificate
   
111.05   License fees; term
   
111.06   Conditions of license
   
111.07   Revocation of license
   
111.08   Exemptions
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TEMPORARY GREENHOUSE SALES. The selling of any kind of plants, flowers,
trees or other related products within the city, without the use of a regularly
established place of business in the city, for a period of no more than 120
consecutive days, and no more than 180 days in any single calendar year.
   TEMPORARY GREENHOUSE SALES AREA. The land area within which the extent of
all temporary greenhouse sales operations are performed (not to exceed 3,800
square feet as per § 111.06(E); as illustrated as per §
111.03(D)(1).
   TEMPORARY GREENHOUSE SALES LICENSE. A license issued by the city which
permits the holder to conduct temporary greenhouse sales at a specified
location, for a specified period, in a specified manner.
   TEMPORARY GREENHOUSE SALES LICENSE CERTIFICATE. A writing completed by the
Clerk-Treasurer, or a designee thereof, as evidence of issuance of a temporary
greenhouse sales license.
   TEMPORARY GREENHOUSE SALES STRUCTURE. Any structure used in conjunction with
temporary greenhouse sales uses located within the temporary greenhouse sales
area.
(Prior Code, § 17-31) (Ord. 01-13, passed 11-12-2001; Ord. 08-15, passed 6-9-
2008)
§ 111.02 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to engage in the business of
temporary greenhouse sales within the city without first applying for and
legally obtaining a temporary greenhouse sales license.
(Prior Code, § 17-32) (Ord. 01-13, passed 11-12-2001; Ord. 08-15, passed 6-9-
2008) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 LICENSE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Temporary greenhouse sales licenses shall only be issued for locations
within recognized business districts (as established within the Westfield-
Washington Township Zoning Ordinance), within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Temporary greenhouse sales licenses shall only be issued on parcels
which are at least five acres in size.
   (C)   A license applicant shall execute an application form at the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer, or other designee thereof, at least seven business days
prior to engaging in any sales activity in the city. The following information
shall be required:
      (1)   Applicants name and local address, if any;
      (2)   The name and address of the principal place of business of the
applicant;
      (3)   A brief description of the type of goods to be sold;
      (4)   Proof of the applicant’s identity (e.g., driver license, or other
commonly recognized identification);
      (5)   Proof of consent from the owner of the property on which the
temporary greenhouse sales use is to be located if the applicant is not the
owner of said property; and
      (6)   A statement specifying the sales period(s).
   (D)   An applicant shall also file site plans (to scale) with the
application form illustrating:
      (1)   The size and location of the temporary greenhouse sales area and
all other existing structures and parking areas on the subject site;
      (2)   The size and location of all proposed temporary greenhouse sales
structures; and
      (3)   A description or illustration of proposed signage.
   (E)   If, after the issuance of the registration certificate, the
information in the application shall become inaccurate for any reason, and the
holder of the registration certificate intends to continue business activity,
notice of such change and corrected information shall be furnished to the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer, or other designee thereof, within 24 hours of
the subject change.
(Prior Code, § 17-33) (Ord. 01-13, passed 11-12-2001; Ord. 08-15, passed 6-9-
2008)
§ 111.04 LICENSE CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Upon compliance of the applicant with the above provisions, the Clerk-
Treasurer, or other designee thereof, shall issue a temporary greenhouse sales
license certificate, which shall be dated and signed by the Clerk-Treasurer, or
other designee thereof.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer, or other designee thereof, shall process the
application within five business days.
   (C)   If the Clerk-Treasurer, or other designee thereof, finds the applicant
has had previous temporary greenhouse sales licenses revoked, this shall serve
as grounds for refusal to issue subsequent registration certificates.
(Prior Code, § 17-34) (Ord. 01-13, passed 11-12-2001; Ord. 08-15, passed 6-9-
2008)
§ 111.05 LICENSE FEES; TERM.
   (A)   Each application shall be accompanied by a license fee of $400.
   (B)   No more than two licenses shall be granted per parcel, in any given
calendar year.
   (C)   Each license shall be valid for a period of 90 consecutive days unless
two licenses are acquired simultaneously. If two licenses are acquired
simultaneously, then the terms of the two licenses may be combined and divided
over two distinct sales periods of consecutive days, neither of which shall
exceed a period of 120 consecutive days.
   (D)   Prior to expiration of a license, all materials, merchandise, and
structures shall be removed from the temporary greenhouse sales area.
(Prior Code, § 17-35) (Ord. 01-13, passed 11-12-2001; Ord. 08-15, passed 6-9-
2008)
§ 111.06 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Temporary greenhouse sales licenses shall be nontransferable.
   (B)   Holders of temporary greenhouse sales licenses shall be entitled to
sell plants, flowers, trees and other related products for the duration of the
license period within the temporary greenhouse sales area.
   (C)   The license holder shall maintain a valid license certificate at all
times and shall exhibit such certificate at any time on request by any police
officer or public official.
   (D)   The license holder, and agents and employees thereof, shall make no
false statements or misrepresentations of fact in the course of carrying on the
activity for which the license is granted, and shall conduct business at all
times in an orderly and lawful manner.
   (E)   The temporary greenhouse sales area shall occupy no more than 3,800
square feet of land area.
   (F)   The aggregate size of all temporary greenhouse sales structures shall
not exceed 2,600 square feet in size.
   (G)   Temporary greenhouse sales operations shall only be conducted between
the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
   (H)   Temporary greenhouse sales uses shall not be permitted to install any
site lighting.
   (I)   All packaged materials and non-vegetative materials shall be stored
inside temporary greenhouse sales structures. No outside storage or display of
packaged materials and non-vegetative materials shall be permitted.
   (J)   No ornamental flags, streamers, balloons, inflatable objects or lights
shall be utilized in conjunction with temporary greenhouse sales uses.
   (K)   Signage.
      (1)   Each temporary greenhouse sales license shall entitle the holder to
a maximum of two signs.
      (2)   Each sign shall be no more than 12 square feet in size.
      (3)   All signage shall be located within the temporary greenhouse sales
area.
      (4)   Such signage shall only be permitted to be firmly affixed against
the exterior walls of temporary greenhouse sales structures and shall not be
permitted to protrude out from or above the roofline of such temporary
greenhouse sales structures.
      (5)   No florescent colors shall be used in such signs.
      (6)   Such signs shall not possess moveable parts.
   (L)   Temporary greenhouse sales uses shall not interfere with traffic
circulation.
(Prior Code, § 17-36) (Ord. 01-13, passed 11-12-2001; Ord. 08-15, passed 6-9-
2008)
§ 111.07 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   As per I.C. 36-4-4-11, the temporary greenhouse sales license may be
revoked if any of the conditions of such license are violated.
   (B)   The temporary greenhouse sales license may be revoked if the applicant
fails to comply with any ordinance of the city.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer, or any authorized designee thereof, may revoke
the license upon an administrative determination that:
      (1)   The license holder is in violation of any license condition or
ordinance of the city; and
      (2)   Fails to abate such violation within five days of notice.
(Prior Code, § 17-37) (Ord. 01-13, passed 11-12-2001; Ord. 08-15, passed 6-9-
2008)
§ 111.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Uses that are legally conducted entirely within permanent structures
which are otherwise regulated by the Westfield-Washington Township Zoning
Ordinance; and
   (B)   Uses that are conducted within legally established outside sales lots
which are otherwise regulated by the Westfield-Washington Township Zoning
Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 17-38) (Ord. 01-13, passed 11-12-2001; Ord. 08-15, passed 6-9-
2008)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity that violates any part of the provisions of this
chapter shall, on conviction, be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 17-39) (Ord. 01-13, passed 11-12-2001; Ord. 08-15, passed 6-9-
2008)
CHAPTER 112: FOOD VENDORS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Applicability
   
112.03   Food vending
   
112.04   Temporary uses and events permit not required
   
112.05   Mobile food vehicles and mobile food vendors
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT POLICY. Consists of the following objectives:
      (1)   To retain and support the sustainability of existing businesses;
      (2)   To create a robust economic environment and diversify the city’s
tax base, specifically within the vicinity of Grand Park;
      (3)   To foster and encourage public-private partnerships; and
      (4)   To provide quality recreational opportunities within the city.
   EVENT HOLDER. A person, group or organization responsible for the hosting or
operation of a City Council event.
   FOOD VENDORS and FOOD VENDING. Includes the display or offering of food or
beverages for sale. FOOD VENDORS shall include the following:
      (1)   FOOD STANDS. Any structure used for preparation, display, sale or
offering of food or beverages for sale. FOOD STANDS shall not include
structures owned by the city;
      (2)   FOOD VENDING PUSHCARTS. Any box or container with wheels that is
not propelled or moved by an engine used for the purpose of selling food or
beverages.
      (3)   MOBILE CONCESSION VENDORS. Self-contained, mobile vehicles that are
propelled or moved by an engine from which food, beverages or other goods are
sold. MOBILE CONCESSION VENDORS shall not include food delivery services that
deliver food or beverages ordered by a purchaser to a specific address provided
by the purchaser (e.g. pizza delivery, catering and the like).
   GRAND PARK AREA. The geographic area as identified on the map below.
   ICE CREAM TRUCK. Includes motor vehicles from which ice cream, popsicles,
ice sherbets, frozen desserts or other similar items are sold.
   LARGE EMPLOYER. Includes businesses within the city’s corporate limits that
have a minimum of 25 employee’s on site daily during the work week.
   NEIGHBORHOOD PARTY. An event held within a particular neighborhood,
specifically for the residents of that neighborhood, typically limited to one
day or one annual or periodic event.
   NON-INCORPORATED CHILDREN’S STANDS. A non-incorporated business that is
commonly owned and operated by a child or children to sell lemonade or other
beverages (e.g., iced tea, coffee, hot chocolate and the like) and possibly
snack foods (e.g., cookies and the like).
   PERMITTED EVENTS. Includes the events listed below. This list is designed to
be amended from time to time by the Council. The list includes the following
City Council events:
      (1)   Westfield parks and recreation hosted events;
      (2)   Westfield public safety hosted events;
      (3)   Westfield-Washington School District hosted events;
      (4)   Downtown Westfield Association hosted events;
      (5)   Builders Association of Greater Indianapolis (“BAGI”) hosted
events;
      (6)   Westfield Rotary hosted events;
      (7)   Lions Club hosted events;
      (8)   Hamilton County Parks and Recreation Department hosted events;
      (9)   Washington Township Parks and Recreation Department hosted events;
      (10)   Relay for Life;
      (11)   Westfield Farmers Market;
      (12)   City of Westfield approved events;
      (13)   Summer Smiles Event;
      (14)   WYSI Diamond Sports at Shamrock Springs Elementary School; and
      (15)   WYSI Diamond Sports at Monon Trails Elementary School.
(Prior Code, § 17-61) (Ord. 14-06, passed 3-10-2014; Ord. 17-12, passed 3-27-
2017)
§ 112.02 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Food vendors shall obtain all applicable approvals and permits, and
shall follow all applicable processes as required by the city and the event
holder.
   (B)   Food vendors shall comply with all local, state and federal laws,
regulations and ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 17-62) (Ord. 14-06, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 112.03 FOOD VENDING.
   No food vending shall be permitted within the city except in accordance with
this section.
   (A)   Food vending shall be permitted within all permitted events.
   (B)   Large employers shall be permitted to host food vendors in accordance
with the following provisions:
      (1)   The food vendor shall obtain permission from or be invited by the
large employer to conduct food vending activities;
      (2)   The food vendor shall be located on property owned or leased by the
large employer;
      (3)   Food vending activities shall be limited to providing meals to
employees of the large employer; and
      (4)   The food vending activities shall be consistent with the city’s
economic development policy.
   (C)   The following food vending activities shall be permitted within the
city:
      (1)   Neighborhood party;
      (2)   Ice cream trucks, except on public rights-of-way immediately
adjacent to or within the Grand Park Area; and
      (3)   Non-incorporated children’s stands.
(Prior Code, § 17-63) (Ord. 14-06, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 112.04 TEMPORARY USES AND EVENTS PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A temporary uses and events permit shall not be required for food
vendors.
   (B)   Food vendors shall not be regulated by the Westfield-Washington
Township Unified Development Ordinance Chapter 6.18, Temporary Uses and Events.
(Prior Code, § 17-64) (Ord. 14-06, passed 3-10-2014)
§ 112.05 MOBILE FOOD VEHICLES AND MOBILE FOOD VENDORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MOBILE FOOD VEHICLE. Any motorized, wheeled or towed vehicle used to
store, prepare, display or serve food or beverages intended for individual
portion service. This term shall not include food delivery services that
deliver food or beverages (both alcoholic and nonalcoholic) ordered by a
purchaser to a specific address provided by the purchaser, mobile ice cream or
snow cone vendors that are stationary for no more than 15 minutes at a time, or
non-incorporated sales by children.
      MOBILE FOOD VENDOR. A person, persons, or entity owning or operating a
mobile food vehicle.
   (B)   Operations generally. It is unlawful to operate as a mobile food
vendor in the city except in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Business license required. No person shall operate a mobile food
vehicle within the corporate limits of the city without obtaining a license as
set forth in this section. A separate license shall be required for each mobile
food vehicle.
   (D)   Business license; application. Any person desiring a license under
this section shall submit a fully completed application to the Department of
Community Development at least 14 days prior to the proposed date of operating
the mobile food vehicle. The application must set forth or have attached the
following information as specified:
      (1)   The applicant's name, current physical address, telephone number,
email address and date of birth;
      (2)   The name, current physical address, tax identification number, and
telephone number of the person, firm, limited liability company, corporation or
organization which the applicant is employed by or represents;
      (3)   If the applicant is employed by or represents a firm, limited
liability company or corporation, the applicant shall provide the name and
current physical address of all members of the firm or limited liability
company, or all officers of the corporation, as the case may be;
      (4)   The type of products to be sold;
      (5)   The names of municipalities or governmental units to which the
applicant has applied for a license of similar character within the 12 months
prior to the date of application; and
      (6)   The designation of a resident of the State of Indiana as a
registered agent for purposes of receiving notices from the City of Westfield
or other service of process, as a result of doing business in the city.
   (E)   Business license; prerequisites. An application for a license under
this section shall not be considered unless proof of the following is provided
with the application:
      (1)   All applicable permits required by the Hamilton County Health
Department or other governmental agencies, including but not limited to a food
service establishment license, certified food handler certificate, or alcoholic
beverage catering license.
      (2)   Proof of registration as a business with the Indiana Secretary of
State;
      (3)   Proof of an employer identification number;
      (4)   If business is to be conducted on or in property owned or managed
by the City Parks Department, a letter of approval from said Department;
      (5)   Proof of insurance in accordance with the amounts established by
this section;
      (6)   A copy of the Indiana registration for the vehicle; and
      (7)   A copy of a valid driver's license.
   (F)   Business license; duration and fee.
      (1)   All licenses are for a calendar year and the renewal amount is for
consecutive years only. Each applicant shall pay a license fee in accordance
with the schedule set forth below:
         (a)   One year license: $150;
         (b)   After June 30: $100; and
         (c)   Renewal: $100.
      (2)   No refunds or deductions shall be allowed from the fee for a
license issued pursuant to this section for any part of the term of which the
license does not engage in such business
   (G)   Business license; fee exemptions.
      (1)   The following listed organizations and/or entities, while required
to obtain a license under this section, are exempt from having to pay any fees
so long as the proceeds thereof are to be used exclusively for religious,
charitable, educational or scientific purposes:
         (a)   Religious institutions;
         (b)   Schools;
         (c)   Nonprofit organizations; and
         (d)   Fraternal organizations.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 25-25-2-1, while all honorably discharged veterans
are required to obtain a license under this section, they are exempt from any
fees.
   (H)   Business license; insurance and indemnity.
      (1)   Each applicant for a license shall provide a certificate of
liability insurance to the Department of Community Development upon a form
provided by the City of Westfield insuring the applicant, and naming the City
of Westfield as co-insured, against the following liability and in the
following amounts relative to such activity:
         (a)   Personal injury: $100,000 per occurrence and $300,000 in the
aggregate; and
         (b)   Property damage: $25,000 per occurrence and $50,000 in the
aggregate.
      (2)   Each applicant shall provide a document approved by the City of
Westfield, in which the applicant agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the
city for losses or expenses arising out of the operation of his/her business.
   (I)   Business license; issuance. The Department of Community Development
shall, within 14 days of receipt of the completed application, issue the
business license to the applicant if the Department finds the following:
      (1)   Compliance with all provisions of this section and other applicable
laws or regulations; and
      (2)   The applicant has not had a prior license issued under this
section, or any similar licenses authorized by a different governmental entity,
suspended or revoked.
   (J)   Business license; transferability. A license issued pursuant to this
section shall not be transferable to another licensee, person, entity, or
applicant.
   (K)   Business license; identification. All licenses issued by the
Department of Community Development under this section shall be prominently
displayed on the mobile food vehicle at all times and shall be shown to any
person who requests to see the license. Failure to display or exhibit a license
in accordance with this section may be grounds for suspension or revocation of
said license.
   (L)   Operating restrictions. Licensed mobile food vehicles may operate only
as permitted within the Westfield-Washington Township Unified Development
Ordinance, Article 6.18, Temporary Uses and Events.
   (M)   Penalties. Any person, partnership, limited liability company or
corporation which violates any provision of this section, shall be issued a
citation and subjected to the following penalties. Each day the violation
exists constitutes a new and separate violation.
      (1)   Operating a mobile food vehicle without a business license:
         (a)   First offense: $1,500;
         (b)   Second offense within any 12-month period: $3,000; and
         (c)   Third offense, or each thereafter, within any 12-month period:
$5,000.
      (2)   Failure to comply with any other provisions of this section or UDO
Article 6.18:
         (a)   First offense within any 12-month period: $250;
         (b)   Second offense: $500;
         (c)   Third offense, or each thereafter, within any 12-month period:
$1,000.
   (N)   Penalties; suspension or revocation of license. In addition, the
Department of Community Development may, after notice and hearing before the
Westfield Board of Public Works and Safety, suspend or revoke, by written
order, any license issued hereunder if the Department finds:
      (1)   The licensee has repeatedly violated any provision of this section
or any rule or regulation lawfully made under and within the authority of this
section;
      (2)   The licensee is operating the mobile food vehicle licensed under
this section in a manner contrary to state or local code; or
      (3)   Any fact or condition exists which, if it had existed at the time
of the original application for such license, would have caused the Department
of Community Development to previously refuse to issue the license.
   (O)   Official warning. Any person charged with violating the provisions of
this section may, in the discretion of the code enforcement officer, be issued
an official warning. If an official warning is issued, it shall be considered
as affording the violator one opportunity to comply with this section's
provisions.
(Ord. 24-67, passed 12-9-2024)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, organization or corporation who violates this
chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than $25 and no more than $300
for each offense.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 17-65) (Ord. 14-06, passed 3-10-2014)
CHAPTER 113: SECONDHAND ENTITIES
Section
   
113.01   Applicability
   
113.02   Registration, fee and bond
   
113.03   License requirement
   
113.04   Definitions
   
113.05   Record of transaction
   
113.06   Card record; fingerprint
   
113.07   Retention period for personal property acquired
   
113.08   Acceptance of property from minors or person under the influence
   
113.09   Government or utility property
   
113.10   Acceptance of property sealed or unopened in its original packaging
   
113.11   Acceptance of property inscribed with a company name
   
113.12   Violations and prosecution of violation
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter applies to the owner or operator of any secondhand entity as
defined herein. For purposes of this chapter, the term secondhand entity does
not include:
   (A)   Not-for-profit charitable organizations that:
      (1)   Do not pay cash for acceptance of secondhand personal property; and
      (2)   Utilize second-hand, or personal property in furtherance of the
charity’s or not-for-profit’s mission.
   (B)   Retail stores that exclusively trade or purchase clothing.
(Prior Code, § 17-81) (Ord. 14-53, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 113.02 REGISTRATION, FEE AND BOND.
   The owner or operator of any secondhand entity shall register with the
Police Department; pay a registration fee of $50 and execute a bond payable to
the city in the penal sum of $1,000 with good and sufficient surety, to be
approved by the Police Department and conditioned on the applicant agreeing to
faithfully observe and conform to all city regulations and requirements
governing secondhand entities (collectively, “registration requirements”).
(Prior Code, § 17-82) (Ord. 14-53, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 113.03 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   No person, firm, corporation, partnership or association shall engage or
continue to own or operate a secondhand entity except as authorized by this
ordinance without having first satisfying the registration requirements.
(Prior Code, § 17-83) (Ord. 14-53, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 113.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   METAL RECYCLING ENTITY. Any person who from a fixed location engages in the
business of utilizing machinery or equipment for the processing of or
manufacturing of iron, steel or nonferrous metallic scrap and whose principal
product is scrap iron, scrap steel or nonferrous metallic scrap for re-melting
purposes.
   PAWN DEALER. Any person lending money on the deposit or pledge of personal
property or who deals in the purchase of personal property on the condition of
selling the property back again at a stipulated price.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, limited liability company or
partnership.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. This term shall include metal, iron and steel and shall
also include jewelry, precious metals, office equipment, household goods,
electronic equipment, tool and coins, as each of those items is defined in the
definition of SECONDHAND DEALER below.
   SECONDHAND DEALER. Any person who engages in the purchase or exchange of
secondhand personal property for profit, except as set forth in §
113.01. Secondhand personal property includes, but is not limited to the
following.
      (1)   JEWELRY AND PRECIOUS METALS. Watches, bracelets, rings, necklaces
and other articles that have value and are generally used for personal
adornment and metals that have an intrinsic value such as gold, silver and
platinum.
      (2)   OFFICE EQUIPMENT. Typewriters, calculators, cash registers, copying
machines, facsimile machines, telephones, cellular phones, computer hardware,
software, computers, computer accessories including tape and disc drives,
printers and storage media.
      (3)   HOUSEHOLD GOODS. Washers, dryers, furnaces, air conditioners,
microwave ovens, kitchen appliances, pianos, organs, guitars and other musical
instruments.
      (4)   ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT. Televisions, video cameras and receivers,
still picture cameras, motion picture cameras and projectors, radios (receiving
and sending), digital video disc players, camcorders, tape recorders,
cassettes, video tape recorders, stereo equipment, compact disc players,
compact discs, video gaming systems, video games, digital video disc players,
digital video discs (DVDs), blue-ray disc players, blue-ray discs, VHS players,
VHS tapes, portable music devices such as MP3 players, Ipods, Ipads and any
other electronic equipment.
      (5)   TOOLS. Any device used to facilitate manual or mechanical work,
including, but not limited to, cutting, gardening, hand, machine and power
tools.
      (6)   COINS. Small pieces of metal, usually flat and circular, authorized
for use as money by the United States Department of Treasury or any another
governmental agency or department.
   SECONDHAND ENTITY or SECONDHAND ENTITIES. Any pawnshop, secondhand dealer,
metal recycling entity, secondhand metal dealer or valuable metal dealer,
except as set forth in §
113.01.
   SECONDHAND METAL DEALER. Any person who operates or maintains a scrap metal
yard or other place in which used or previously purchased metal items or scrap
metal is collected or kept for shipment, sale or transfer.
   VALUABLE METAL DEALER. Any person engaged in the business of purchasing and
reselling valuable metal either at a permanently established place of business
or in connection with a business of an itinerant nature, including junk shops,
junk yards, junk stores, auto wreckers, scrap metal dealers or processors,
salvage yards, collectors of or dealers in junk, and junk cars or trucks. The
term includes a core buyer. The term does not include a person who purchases a
vehicle and obtains title to the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 17-84) (Ord. 14-53, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 113.05 RECORD OF TRANSACTION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, any person operating a secondhand
entity within the city’s municipal boundaries shall maintain an electronic
inventory-tracking system and transmit all information required by this section
via computer to the LeadsOnline system (“LeadsOnline”).
   (A)   (1)   For pawn dealers and secondhand dealers, the information
maintained and transmitted to LeadsOnline shall include:
         (a)   The date and time of each transaction in which personal property
is purchased pledged or received;
         (b)   An accurate and detailed description of any and all personal
property purchased or acquired during the regular course of business,
including, but not limited to, the following information:
            1.   Trademarks;
            2.   Identification numbers;
            3.   Serial numbers;
            4.   Model numbers;
            5.   Brand names;
            6.   Inscriptions; and
            7.   Other identifying marks.
         (c)   The compensation or amount of money exchanged for each such
transaction;
         (d)   The full name, address, telephone number, date of birth,
driver’s license number or state-issued identification card and digital
photograph of the person from whom personal property is acquired;
         (e)   A digital photograph of any item not bearing a unique serial
number and purchased or acquired for a sum or money or other compensation
valued at $25 or more; and
         (f)   Any additional information that the city’s Chief of Police may
reasonably require to ensure compliance with the laws of the state or the
city’s ordinances (collectively, “identifying information”).
      (2)   The information required to be transmitted to LeadsOnline shall be
transmitted within 24 hours of the date and time a purchase or transaction is
consummated.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Recycling entities and secondhand metal dealers shall
comply with I.C. 25-37.5-1-2 which provides that every valuable metal dealer in
this state shall enter on forms provided by the State Police Department for
each purchase of valuable metal the following information:
            1.   The name and address of the dealer;
            2.   The date and place of each purchase;
            3.   The name, address, age and driver’s license number or Social
Security number of the person or persons from whom the valuable metal was
purchased;
            4.   The valuable metal dealer shall verify the identity of the
person from whom the valuable metal was purchased by use of a government issued
photographic identification. The dealer shall enter on the form the type of
government issued photographic identification used to verify the identity of
the person from whom the valuable metal was purchased, together with the:
               a.   Name of the government agency that issued the photographic
identification; and
               b.   Identification number present on the government issued
photographic identification.
            5.   The motor vehicle license number of the vehicle or conveyance
on which the valuable metal was delivered to the dealer;
            6.   The price paid for the metal;
            7.   A description and weight of the valuable metal purchased;
            8.   The source of the valuable metal; and
            9.   The photograph described in division (B)(2) below.
         (b)   After entering the information required in this division (B)(1),
the valuable metal dealer shall require the person or persons from whom the
valuable metal is purchased to sign the form and verify its accuracy.
      (2)   In addition to collecting the information described in division (B)
(1) above, a valuable metal dealer shall take a photograph of:
         (a)   The person from whom the valuable metal is being purchased; and
         (b)   The valuable metal.
      (3)   A valuable metal dealer shall make and retain a copy of the
government issued photographic identification described under division (B)(1)
(a)4. above used to verify the identity of the person from whom valuable metal
was purchased and the photograph described in division (B)(2) above. However, a
valuable metal dealer is not required to make a copy of a government issued
photographic identification used under division (B)(1)(a)4. above to verify the
identity of the person from whom valuable metal is purchased if the valuable
metal dealer has retained a copy of a person’s government issued photographic
identification from a prior purchase from the person by the valuable metal
dealer.
      (4)   The completed form, the photograph described in division (B)(2)
above, and the copy of the government issued photographic identification
described in division (B)(3) above shall be kept in a separate book or register
by the dealer and shall be retained for a period of two years. This book or
register shall be made available for inspection by any law enforcement official
at any time.
   (C)   Precious metal dealers shall comply with I.C. 24-4-19-15 by
maintaining books, accounts and records necessary to determine whether the
precious metal dealer is complying with state law.
      (1)   A precious metal dealer shall:
         (a)   Preserve the books, accounts and records for a least two years
after making the final entry on any purchase recorded; and
         (b)   Keep the books and records so that the business of purchasing
precious metal for resale may be readily separated and distinguished from any
other business in which the precious metal dealer is engaged.
      (2)   If the precious metal dealer, in the conduct of the business,
purchases precious metal from a seller, the purchase shall be evidenced by a
bill of sale properly sighed by the seller verifying the accuracy of the
information in the bill of sale. All bills of sale must be in duplicate form
and must list the following separate items:
         (a)   The date of sale;
         (b)   The:
            1.   Name;
            2.   Addresses;
            3.   Date of birth; and
            4.   Driver’s license number or Social Security number of the
seller from whom the precious metal was purchased.
         (c)   The amount of consideration paid for the precious metal;
         (d)   The:
            1.   Name of the precious metal dealer; and
            2.   Address of the permanent place of business where the purchase
occurred.
         (e)   A description of each article of precious metal sold. However,
if multiple articles of precious metal of similar nature are delivered together
in one transaction, the description of the articles is adequate if the
description contains the quantity of the articles delivered and a physical
description of the type of articles delivered, including any unique identifying
marks, number, names, letters or special features;
         (f)   The type of government issued photographic identification used
to verify the identity of the seller under I.C. 24-4-19-14, together with the
name of the governmental agency that issued the photographic identification and
the identification number present on the government issued photographic
identification; and
         (g)   If a precious metal dealer purchases precious metal, the
precious metal dealer shall retain as part of the books, accounts and records
kept by the precious metal dealer under this section:
            1.   The original copy of the bill of sale; and
            2.   The:
               a.   Copy of the seller’s government issued photographic
identification; and
               b.   Photograph of the precious metal obtained by the precious
metal dealer.
            3.   The second copy of the bill of sale shall be delivered to the
seller by the precious metal dealer at the time of sale; and
            4.   The heading on all bill of sale forms must be boldface type.
(Prior Code, § 17-85) (Ord. 14-53, passed 3-23-2015)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provision under state law, see I.C. 25-37.5-1-2
§ 113.06 CARD RECORD; FINGERPRINT.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to the requirements set forth in §
113.05, all secondhand entities shall:
         (a)   Electronically scan the right thumb of any person transferring
an item, personal property or valuable metal to a secondhand entity and
transfer the thumbprint to LeadsOnline; or
         (b)   Complete a card prescribed by the Police Department which card
shall include a space for the person to:
            1.   Write in his or her own handwriting the person’s name and
address and date of the transaction; and
            2.   Place his or her right thumbprint on the back of the card.
      (2)   If the right thumb is missing, any of the person’s fingerprints may
be used. The thumbprint shall be made in the manner approved by the Chief of
Police and shall not be blurred or obliterated.
   (B)   If the card described in division (A)(1)(b) is used, it shall be in a
form prescribed by the Chief of Police and shall cross-reference the
information submitted to LeadsOnline pursuant to §
113.05 in a manner that allows the secondhand entity to readily match the card
to the person for which the identifying information was submitted to
LeadsOnline.
   (C)   All cards completed pursuant to this section shall be maintained by
the secondhand entity for not less than five years.
   (D)   The thumbprint required by division (A)(1)(a) shall be transmitted to
LeadsOnline within 24 hours of the date and time a purchase or transaction is
consummated.
(Prior Code, § 17-86) (Ord. 14-53, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 113.07 RETENTION PERIOD FOR PERSONAL PROPERTY ACQUIRED.
   All personal property received by secondhand entities for resale or
reclamation shall be retained by the secondhand entity for not less than seven
days. Transactions involving precious metals shall be retained for not less
than ten days. Further, during the ten-day retention period applicable to
precious metal transactions, the precious metal dealer may not change the form
of the precious metal.
(Prior Code, § 17-87) (Ord. 14-53, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 113.08 ACCEPTANCE OF PROPERTY FROM MINORS OR PERSON UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or operating a secondhand entity
to take, purchase or receive personal property from any person who is under the
age of 18 or who is under the influence of narcotics or alcohol.
(Prior Code, § 17-88) (Ord. 14-53, passed 3-23-2015) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 GOVERNMENT OR UTILITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or operating a secondhand
entity to take, purchase or receive personal property on which words or
markings appear indicating ownership of such item by the United States, State
of Indiana, or any political subdivision, governmental agency or public utility
company (“governmental entity”), except where the person offering such item for
sale or transfer provides the following:
      (1)   Written authorization from the governmental entity to convey the
item on behalf of the governmental entity; or
      (2)   A valid receipt from the governmental entity evidencing that the
governmental entity has conveyed or relinquished ownership rights in the
personal property.
   (B)   It shall not be a defense to prosecution that the personal property
contains no words or markings indicating ownership if the person who purchased
or received the personal property knew or should have known that the personal
property is owned by a governmental entity.
(Prior Code, § 17-89) (Ord. 14-53, passed 3-23-2015) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.10 ACCEPTANCE OF PROPERTY SEALED OR UNOPENED IN ITS ORIGINAL PACKAGING.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or operator of a secondhand entity to
purchase or receive personal property sealed or unopened in its original
packaging.
   (A)   The person conveying such personal property presents a receipt or
proof of purchase for the personal property.
   (B)   The personal property is considered collectible and the opening of the
original packaging would decrease the item’s value.
(Prior Code, § 17-90) (Ord. 14-53, passed 3-23-2015) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.11 ACCEPTANCE OF PROPERTY INSCRIBED WITH A COMPANY NAME.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or operator of a secondhand entity to
purchase or receive personal property bearing the name, initials or logo of a
business entity unless the person conveying such personal property provides, at
the time of conveyance, a valid receipt indicating lawful ownership, a signed
statement attesting to lawful ownership, or written authorization from the
business entity to convey the personal property on the entity’s behalf.
(Prior Code, § 17-91) (Ord. 14-53, passed 3-23-2015) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.12 VIOLATIONS AND PROSECUTION OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person receiving a notice of violation of this chapter may appear
at the Noblesville City Court or other designated court of competent
jurisdiction and pay the fine indicated on the notice or deny the violation and
contest the matter in court.
   (C)   The case shall then proceed according to the rules and procedures of
the city court pertaining to ordinance violations.
(Prior Code, § 17-92) (Ord. 14-53, passed 3-23-2015)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to any and all other penalty provisions provided by the
ordinances of the city, any person, firm or corporation who violates any
section of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of $500. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or
continues. Enforcement shall be pursued through the Noblesville City Court
through the interlocal agreement with the City of Noblesville or through the
Hamilton County Circuit or Superior Courts.
(Prior Code, § 17-93) (Ord. 14-53, passed 3-23-2015)
CHAPTER 114: CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
114.01   Adoption of FCC rules
   
114.02   Public hearing and notification
   
114.03   Review of basic cable rates
   
114.04   Review of basic cost-of-service
   
114.05   Adoption of resolution
   
114.06   Confidentiality of proprietary information
   
114.07   Refunds
   
114.08   Video franchise fees
 
   
114.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Fraud, see I.C. 35-43-5-4
§ 114.01 ADOPTION OF FCC RULES.
   (A)   The City Council hereby adopts the rules and regulations set forth by
the Federal Communications Commission pursuant to § 623(b) of the Cable
Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (47 U.S.C. § 543(b))
for the review of the basic service tier of cable television services and
equipment necessary for the provision of such service tier.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, the basic service tier of cable
television services shall mean a separately available service tier to which
subscription is required for access to any other tier of service, including as
a minimum, but not limited to, all signals of domestic television broadcast
stations provided to any subscriber (except a signal secondarily transmitted by
satellite carrier beyond the local service area of such station, regardless of
how such signal is ultimately received by the cable system), any public,
educational and governmental programming required by the franchise to be
carried on the basic tier, and any additional video programming signals or
service added to the basic tier by the cable operator. Equipment necessary to
provide said basic tier of service shall be defined as those items of
associated equipment necessary for the reception of basic cable service by a
subscriber, including, but not limited to, converter boxes, remote control
units, additional outlets and installations.
(Prior Code, § 18-31)
§ 114.02 PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTIFICATION.
   The city shall provide the grantee of the cable television franchise and the
public with an opportunity to be heard at a public hearing before the City
Council upon 14 days’ written notice to the grantee of the cable television
franchise of the time and place of the public hearing. The notice shall
indicate that the purpose of the public hearing is to receive the views of the
grantee and interested parties on issues pertaining to regulation of the basic
service tier of cable television services and equipment necessary to provide
the basic tier of service. The notice of the public hearings shall be published
in a local newspaper of general circulation at least ten days before the date
of the hearing and an agenda for the public hearing shall be posted in a public
place at the city building at least seven days prior to the public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 18-32)
§ 114.03 REVIEW OF BASIC CABLE RATES.
   (A)   The city shall establish that the period for review of rates of the
basic service tier of cable television services and the equipment necessary to
provide the basic tier of service shall be 30 days from the submission by the
grantee of the cable television franchise of Federal Communications Commission
Form 393. If the City Council takes no action within 30 days from the date the
cable operator files its basic cable rates with the city, the proposed rates
will continue in effect.
   (B)   If additional time for review of the Federal Communications Commission
Form 393 submitted by grantee is necessary, the City Council or its designee
shall issue a brief written order prior to the end of the 30-day review period,
with a copy of the order to be sent by certified United States mail to the
grantee, providing for an additional 90-day period for review of rates of the
basic service tier and the equipment necessary to provide the basic tier of
service. During the extended review period and before taking action on the
proposed rate, the City Council shall hold at least one public hearing in which
interested citizens may express their views and record objections.
(Prior Code, § 18-33)
§ 114.04 REVIEW OF BASIC COST-OF-SERVICE.
   (A)   The city shall establish that the period for review of the basic
service tier of cable television services and the equipment necessary to
provide the basic tier of service shall be 90 days from the submission by the
grantee of information and forms prescribed by the Federal Communications
Commission for a showing of cost-of-service, as defined by the Federal
Communications Commission.
   (B)   If additional time for review of the cost-of-service showing submitted
by the grantee is necessary, the City Council or its designee shall issue a
brief written order prior to the end of the 90-day review period with a copy of
the order to be sent by certified United States mail to the grantee, providing
for an additional 150-day period for review of rates of the basic service tier
and the equipment necessary to provide the basic tier of service. During the
extended review period and before taking action on the proposed rate, the city
shall hold at least one public hearing in which persons may express their views
and record objections.
(Prior Code, § 18-34)
§ 114.05 ADOPTION OF RESOLUTION.
   (A)   Upon completion of its review of the proposed rates for the basic
service tier of cable television services and the equipment necessary to
provide said basic tier of service, the city shall adopt its decision by formal
resolution. The resolution shall indicate the reasons for the decision. Upon
passage of the resolution, the city shall publish the resolution in pamphlet
form.
   (B)   If the cable operator’s proposed rates exceed the reasonable rate
standard as established by the Federal Communications Commission in its rules
and regulations attached hereto, the city may order the rates reduced by
rollbacks or refunds to subscribers, in the manner so prescribed by the Federal
Communications Commission.
(Prior Code, § 18-35)
§ 114.06 CONFIDENTIALITY OF PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.
   In considering information provided by the grantee as a part of review of
his or her rates for the basic service tier of cable television services and
the equipment necessary to provide the basic tier of service, the city shall
not disclose to the public the content of any records, forms, reports,
calculations or other documents as provided which the grantee has indicated as
being of a proprietary interest or constituting a trade secret in nature. The
municipal officer responsible for administration of the state’s Freedom of
Information Act (I.C. 5-14-3) shall retain the right to determine the validity
of the grantee’s claim of proprietary interest or trade secrecy in accordance
with the provisions of the state’s Freedom of Information Act (I.C. 5-14-3).
(Prior Code, § 18-36)
§ 114.07 REFUNDS.
   The city may order the cable operator to refund to subscribers a portion of
previously paid rates under the following circumstances:
   (A)   A portion of the previously paid rates has been determined to be in
excess of the permitted basic cable service tier charge or above the actual
cost of equipment; and
   (B)   The cable operator has failed to comply with a valid rate order issued
by the city.
(Prior Code, § 18-37)
§ 114.08 VIDEO FRANCHISE FEES.
   (A)   The providers as defined in I.C. 8-1-34-11 and subject to the
provisions of I.C. 8-1-34-24 are hereby notified that the fees shall be 5% on
all gross revenues unless contractually set at a lower rate. All fees shall be
delivered to the city’s Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The city’s Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit said fees into the Cable
Franchise Fee Account (101-640).
   (C)   Gross revenues shall be determined as all fees and charges charged to
subscribers for video service provided by the provider. Fees and charges under
this division (C) include the following:
      (1)   Recurring monthly charges for video service;
      (2)   Event based charges for video service, including pay per view and
video on demand charges;
      (3)   Charges for the rental of set top boxes and other equipment;
      (4)   Service charges related to the provision of video service,
including activation, installation, repair and maintenance charges; and
      (5)   Administrative charges related to the provision of video service,
including service order and service termination charges.
(Ord. 07-13, passed 7-9-2007; Ord. 10-07, passed 5-10-2010)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Failure of the cable operator to comply with the terms and conditions of
this chapter shall constitute a violation and shall be subject to the penalty
under §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 18-38)
CHAPTER 115: FIREWORKS
Section
Consumer Fireworks Sales
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Applicability
   
115.03   License required
   
115.04   License requirements and conditions
   
115.05   License application
   
115.06   Consumer fireworks sales violations and penalties
   
115.07   Conflict of laws
CONSUMER FIREWORKS SALES
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLASS 1 BUILDING(S). As defined in I.C. 22-12-1-4.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS (FIREWORKS). As defined in I.C. 22-11-14-1.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS SALES (SALES). A retail operation engaged in selling
fireworks.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS SALES LICENSE (LICENSE). A license to sell fireworks
issued by the Community Development Department (the “Department”).
   OPERATOR. A person or company engaged in the business of sales.
   POINT OF SALE. Location at which a retail transaction occurs within a Class
1 building.
   PORTABLE STORAGE UNITS. Temporary container for the keeping of goods.
   SECTION 8(A) FIREWORKS. As defined in I.C. 22-11-14-8(a).
   STORE. A Class 1 building, or portion thereof used for the purpose of
conducting sales.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURES. Any nonpermanent building or tent that will not remain
onsite after the sale.
(Prior Code, § 17-40) (Ord. 09-07, passed 5-19-2009)
§ 115.02 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   A license shall be required for those persons or entities engaged in
the sale of fireworks as defined.
   (B)   A separate license shall be required for each sales location.
   (C)   A license shall not be required for those persons or entities engaged
in the sale of § 8(a) fireworks and not consumer fireworks.
(Prior Code, § 17-41) (Ord. 09-07, passed 5-19-2009)
§ 115.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to engage in the business of
fireworks sales within the city without first applying for and legally
obtaining a license.
(Prior Code, § 17-42) (Ord. 09-07, passed 5-19-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.04 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Licenses shall only be issued for locations within recognized business
districts (as established and identified in the Westfield-Washington Township
Unified Development Ordinance Chapter 4), within the corporate limits of the
city.
   (B)   Licenses shall expire after six months after the date of issuance or
30 days after sales are discontinued, whichever occurs first.
   (C)   Sales shall only be permitted within Class 1 buildings, that are
protected by an active automatic sprinkler system, smoke detector and fire
alarm.
   (D)   Sales are prohibited in temporary structures or tents.
   (E)   All fireworks shall be stored inside the store.
   (F)   The use of temporary structures or portable storage units is
prohibited.
   (G)   Point of sale sign.
      (1)   A sign identifying the permitted time of use for fireworks within
the city’s corporate limits shall be erected in a manner that is clearly
visible at the point of sale.
      (2)   Such signs shall state that the use of fireworks is permitted:
         (a)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on
June 29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8, July
9 and Labor Day weekend (Friday through Monday);
         (b)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. (midnight) on
July 4; and
         (c)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
   (H)   Use, discharge or demonstration of fireworks in the store or on the
property of the store is prohibited without a display permit as required by
I.C. 22-11-14-2.
   (I)   Store signage (the “sign”).
      (1)   Each license shall permit a maximum of one on-site sign.
      (2)   The sign area shall be limited to one square foot of sign per
linear foot of tenant or retail space along the front facade.
      (3)   The sign shall be located on the front facade.
      (4)   The sign shall be firmly affixed to the exterior wall.
      (5)   The sign shall not protrude out from or above the roofline.
      (6)   No florescent colors shall be used on the sign.
      (7)   The sign shall not possess movable parts, rotate or blink.
   (J)   The license shall be posted at the point of sale.
   (K)   Sales shall be conducted in compliance with state law.
   (L)   The store shall comply with all state and local fire and building
codes.
(Prior Code, § 17-43) (Ord. 09-07, passed 5-19-2009; Ord. 12-28, passed 5-13-
2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.05 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Department shall issue licenses to all applicants (“applicants”)
that comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Applicants shall submit an application form (as established by the
Department), to the Department.
   (C)   A license shall be acquired prior to engaging in any sales activities.
   (D)   Applicants shall provide the following information to the Department
at the time of application:
      (1)   Applicant’s name;
      (2)   Name of local operator;
      (3)   Applicant’s corporate address;
      (4)   Operator’s email address and phone number;
      (5)   Applicant’s email address and phone number;
      (6)   Applicant’s local address for sales;
      (7)   List of three emergency contacts. The list shall include for each
contact: names, phone numbers, email address and mailing address;
      (8)   Copy of approved state required permit or copy of pending
application;
      (9)   A license fee of $1,000 shall be submitted with each application
for each site; and
      (10)   Any checks shall be made payable to the City of Westfield.
(Prior Code, § 17-44) (Ord. 09-07, passed 5-19-2009)
§ 115.06 CONSUMER FIREWORKS SALES VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The Director of the Westfield Community Development Department, the
Westfield Fire Chief, or their respective designees may suspend or revoke the
license upon making an administrative determination that the applicant and/or
operator violated the terms of this chapter or failed to comply with any
ordinance of the city.
   (B)   Written notice of violation(s) shall be sent via U.S. mail, hand
delivery or by email. Notice shall be deemed given three business days after
mailing (for U.S. mail), upon hand delivery (if hand delivered) or upon email
confirmation from the recipient (if emailed). Notice shall be served to the
applicant at the address or email included on the license application if not
hand delivered.
   (C)   No applicant, operator or entity that has violated this chapter may be
eligible for a license within the city for one year from the time of violation.
(Prior Code, § 17-45) (Ord. 09-07, passed 5-19-2009)
§ 115.07 CONFLICT OF LAWS.
   (A)   The definitions established in this chapter shall only apply to the
terms of this chapter.
   (B)   To the extent that the terms and definitions contained in the chapter
conflict with other applicable terms and definitions, the terms and definitions
of this chapter shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 17-46) (Ord. 09-07, passed 5-19-2009)
CHAPTER 116: DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
116.01   No soliciting signs and stickers
   
116.02   Enforcement
   
116.03   Definitions
Licensing and Regulations
   
116.15   Licensing required
   
116.16   Licensing
   
116.17   Restrictions on license/door-to-door solicitation
   
116.18   License revocation or denial
   
116.19   Administrative appeal of license revocation
   
116.20   Severability clause
   
116.21   Effect and scope
 
   
116.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 116.01 NO SOLICITING SIGNS AND STICKERS.
   (A)   Westfield City Services hereby authorized and directed to maintain a
supply of “No Soliciting” sticker, decals, signs or other means of notification
for free distribution to any resident of the city upon the request of such
citizen.
   (B)   Additionally, signs may be downloaded from the city’s website at
https://www.westfield.in.gov/ or picked up at city services.
(Prior Code, § 46-1) (Ord. 19-31, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 116.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the city’s Police Department and shall
provide prompt response to any call for assistance to a resident upon whose
private property a trespass has occurred after warning by sign or other
notification reasonably intended to advise a person or persons to remove
themselves from such private property.
(Prior Code, § 46-2) (Ord. 19-31, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 116.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION. Includes all methods and means of soliciting
funds and/or of selling commercial products, services or property within the
corporate limits of the city, by and through the uninvited in-person
solicitation of city residents on private property.
   EXEMPT PERSONS. Includes the following:
      (1)   An individual while and to the extent he or she is engaged in
protected political speech or activity;
      (2)   An individual while and to the extent he or she is engaged in
protected religious speech or activity;
      (3)   An individual engaged in the solicitation of funds and/or the sale
of cookies, candies, paper products or similar sundries for and on behalf of a
not-for-profit organization or association that is exempt from the state’s
gross retail tax; and
      (4)   An individual who, due to applicable federal or state law, is
exempt from local licensing requirements. These individuals shall follow the
established hours, manner and restrictions, in which door-to-door soliciting
may be conducted within the city.
   VENDOR. A person, partnership, corporation, company, organization or entity
who is not an exempt person and who is engaged in the selling, peddling,
marketing for future sales, merchandising or brokering of products, services or
property to the general public for a commercial purpose and/or who is engaged
in the solicitation of funds.
(Prior Code, § 46-3) (Ord. 19-31, passed 9-9-2019)
LICENSING AND REGULATIONS
§ 116.15 LICENSING REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any vendor, and vendor’s employees and agents to
engage in door-to-door soliciting within the city until that person complies
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 46-21) (Ord. 19-31, passed 9-9-2019) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.16 LICENSING.
   (A)   Any vendor who desires to engage in door-to-door solicitation shall
first obtain from the city’s Clerk-Treasurer’s office a non-transferable door-
to-door solicitation license (“license”) permitting such activity by vendor
and/or by vendor’s employees and agents.
   (B)   The city’s Clerk-Treasurer’s office shall provide to any person, upon
request, a door-to-door vendor application form (“application”) to be completed
by a vendor and processed by the city’s Clerk- Treasurer’s office. The
application shall seek general information about the vendor, vendor’s business
and the nature of vendor’s proposed door-to-door solicitation. The application
shall also require a vendor to list the name of every employee and agent who
will be involved in door-to-door solicitation pursuant to a license issued to
the vendor under this section, and to obtain from the State Police Department
and attach to the application a copy of the limited criminal history of the
vendor and of each employee and agent of same who will be involved in door-to-
door solicitation. All completed applications shall be submitted to the city’s
Clerk-Treasurer’s office for review.
   (C)   (1)   A license and a non-transferable identification care shall be
issued to each employee by the city’s Clerk-Treasurer’s office upon such
vendor’s completion of an application, confirmation that such vendor and
employees have no felony or misdemeanor conviction within 15 years of the
application date for a crime of dishonesty, fraud, theft and/or moral
turpitude, and such vendor has paid the following license fees for each
employee who will be involved in door-to-door soliciting:
 
One-day license   $15
One-week license  $25
One-month license $125
One-year license  $300
 
      (2)   Upon receipt of a license, a vendor must also purchase from the
city’s Clerk-Treasurer’s office, at the cost of $1 each, non-transferable
identification cards for each employee and agent of vendor listed on vendor’s
application and for whom the city’s Clerk-Treasurer’s office has confirmed has
no felony or misdemeanor conviction within 15 years of vendor’s application
date for a crime of dishonesty, fraud, theft and/or moral turpitude.
   (D)   The decision as to whether an application is approved or denied shall
be made by the city’s Clerk-Treasurer’s office within ten business days from
the date the application is submitted to the city’s Clerk-Treasurer’s office
for processing.
   (E)   Vendor, and each of vendor’s employees and agents, shall openly
display upon his or her person an identification card issued by the city’s
Clerk-Treasurer’s office whenever engaging in door-to-door solicitation. When
requested, identification cards shall be presented to a police officer of the
city or any person.
   (F)   Subject to earlier revocation, pursuant to this section, a license, as
well as any identification card(s) issued therewith, shall be valid for exactly
one day, exactly one week, exactly one month, or exactly one year as
applicable, from the date the license or identification card was issued, and
shall thereafter immediately expire and become null and void.
(Prior Code, § 46-22) (Ord. 19-31, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 116.17 RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSE/DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION.
   (A)   Vendor, and vendor’s employees and agents, shall comply with all
applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations while engaging in
door-to-door solicitation.
   (B)   A vendor, and a vendor’s employees and agents shall not approach any
home displaying a “No Soliciting” sticker, decal, sign or other means of
notification. A vendor may not approach any home that has registered with the
city’s no solicitation list maintained by the city at https://
www.westfield.in.gov/
   (C)   Vendors are responsible for reviewing said list and treating each home
listed as if a fully visible “No Solicitation” sign is located on the home.
   (D)   Door-to-door solicitation by vendors may be conducted between the
hours of 10:00 a.m. and dusk local time only.
   (E)   The holder shall not trespass or enter into or on any house, building
or other structure of any land or property, without the prior consent of the
owner or occupant thereof.
   (F)   The holder of a license shall make no false statement or
misrepresentation of fact in the course of carrying on the activity for which
the license is granted and shall conduct business at all times in an orderly
and lawful manner.
   (G)   The holder of a license who takes orders for the future delivery of
any type of goods or service shall be required to deliver such goods or service
before any payment is made. It is unlawful to require “deposit” money for the
expectation of future delivery of goods and services.
   (H)   The city reserves the right to restrict the location of operation.
(Prior Code, § 46-23) (Ord. 19-31, passed 9-9-2019) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.18 LICENSE REVOCATION OR DENIAL.
   (A)   If the city’s Clerk-Treasurer’s office determines that one or more of
the following apply to a vendor and/or to any employee or agent of vendor who
applies for a license or who is involved in door-to-door solicitation, then the
city’s Clerk-Treasurer’s office shall deny the application and/or revoke an
issued license and/or identification card(s) relating thereto, whichever action
is applicable under the circumstances:
      (1)   Vendor submitted an application that contains materially false or
misleading information;
      (2)   Vendor or any of vendor’s employees or agents was, within 15 years
prior the date of vendor’s application, convicted of a felony or misdemeanor
crime of dishonesty, fraud, theft and/or moral turpitude;
      (3)   Vendor or any of vendor’s employees or agents has violated this
section or has been charged with or convicted of a felony or misdemeanor crime
of dishonesty, fraud, theft and/or moral turpitude after the issuance of but
prior to the expiration date of such person’s license and/or identification
card;
      (4)   Vendor or any of vendor’s employees or agents has failed to
properly display his or her identification card while engaged in door-to-door
solicitation; or
      (5)   Two or more written and sworn complaints have been delivered to the
city’s Clerk- Treasurer’s office regarding allegedly untruthful or illegal
conduct concerning vendor or vendor’s employees or agents during his or her
door-to-door solicitation, including, but not limited to, violating any “No
Solicitation” sign or the city’s no solicitation list.
   (B)   All license and/or identification card denials/revocations shall be in
writing, shall state thereon the effective date of the denial/revocation and
the reason for same, and shall be served by U.S. certified mail or by personal
service on vendor at vendor’s address as contained in the application.
   (C)   Any vendor, within 20 days from the date on which notice of such
license and/or identification card denial or revocation notice is served
thereon, may by written request made and delivered to the city’s Clerk-
Treasurer’s office within such time period, appeal such action to the city’s
Board of Public Works and Safety (“Board”). If a timely appeal is not made, the
decision of the city’s Clerk-Treasurer’s office is final. If a timely appeal is
made, the Board shall hear the appeal at a public hearing which shall begin no
more than 30 days from the date of the receipt of the appeal request by the
city’s Clerk- Treasurer’s Office. The Board shall issue its written decision on
the appeal no more than ten days from the ending date of the hearing thereon,
which board decision shall be final.
   (D)   No application, license or identification card fees shall be returned
or refunded upon the revocation of a license and/or identification card issued
pursuant to this section, all such monies being deemed forfeited.
(Prior Code, § 46-24) (Ord. 19-31, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 116.19 ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL OF LICENSE REVOCATION.
   (A)   A vendor whose license has been revoked as outlined by this chapter
shall have the right to appeal to the city’s Solicitation Review Board within
three days of being notified that the license has been revoked.
   (B)   Any appeal must be presented to the Clerk-Treasurer office. The
meeting of the Board will then be set within three business days from the
request.
   (C)   The appeal to the city’s Solicitation Review Board is a condition
precedent to seeking any further civil remedy.
   (D)   The city’s Solicitation Review Board shall consist of the following
persons:
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer or designee thereof;
      (2)   The city’s Police Chief or designee thereof; and
      (3)   The Westfield Economic and Development Director or designee
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 46-25) (Ord. 19-31, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 116.20 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
   If any paragraph, sentence or other part of this chapter shall, for any
reason, be adjudged invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of this chapter,
but shall be confined in its operation to the paragraph, sentence or other part
thereof which is directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment is
rendered.
(Prior Code, § 46-26) (Ord. 19-31, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 116.21 EFFECT AND SCOPE.
   The adoption of this chapter by the city, and the license of any vendor
hereunder, shall not constitute an endorsement of approval of the cause, goods,
property and/or services represented or provided by, nor the product of any
person while engaged in door-to-door solicitation.
(Prior Code, § 46-27) (Ord. 19-31, passed 9-9-2019)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any vendor and/or any employee or agent or vendor who engages in door-
to-door solicitation in violation of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of
$100 for each separate offense during which the same engages in such conduct,
with a maximum penalty of $500 for each day during which the same engages in
such conduct.
   (B)   A vendor and/or any employee or agent of vendor who commits a
violation under this chapter is subject to the enforcement procedures provided
in I.C. 34-28-5 et seq. Violations may be filed in any court of competent
jurisdiction in the county.
   (C)   The city may seek a temporary and/or permanent restraining order
against any vendor and/or employee or agent thereof in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (D)   The city’s remedies hereunder shall be cumulative and pursuit of one
remedy shall not preclude the pursuit of others under this section or
otherwise.
   (E)   Willful or intentional disregard of this chapter shall, to the full
extent permitted by law, entitle the city to collect from the violator the
city’s attorney fees, court costs, litigation expenses and all other reasonable
costs and expenses incurred in obtaining a restraining order and/or any other
enforcement remedies against same.
(Prior Code, § 46-25) (Ord. 19-31, passed 9-9-2019)
CHAPTER 117: VEHICLES FOR HIRE
Section
Taxi Service
   
117.01    Definition
   
117.02    License required
   
117.03    License application
   
117.04    Rates and fees
   
117.05    Financial responsibility
   
117.06    Review of applications
   
117.07    License and permit fees
   
117.08    Standards of operation
   
117.09    Conduct of drivers
   
117.10    Driver qualifications
   
117.11    Complaints
   
117.12    Revocation or suspension of license
 
   
117.99    Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Financial responsibility as to vehicles, see I.C. 9-25-4-1 et seq.
   Regulation of public vehicles for hire, see I.C. 36-9-2-4
TAXI SERVICE
§ 117.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAXI SERVICE. Operating on a regular basis any motor vehicle, except a bus
as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-17, for the purpose of transporting public passengers
for hire within the corporate boundaries of the city.
(Prior Code, § 66-31)
§ 117.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any taxi service within the
city boundaries without first obtaining from the Clerk-Treasurer a license as
provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 66-32) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to obtain a license to operate a taxi service shall
submit an application to the City Council. The application shall state the
kind, make and year of manufacture of all motor vehicles the applicant desires
to operate in the city as a taxi, and information concerning the condition of
the motor vehicles which will enable the City Council to determine whether or
not such motor vehicles are in a reasonably safe and reliable condition of
upkeep and repair to be devoted to public passenger service. The applicant
shall also state the address of the office or headquarters from or by which the
movement of the motor vehicles shall be operated and controlled, and the
telephone number of the office or headquarters.
(Prior Code, § 66-33)
§ 117.04 RATES AND FEES.
   The applicant for a license under this chapter shall file with the
application a schedule of rates and fares to be charged for the transportation
of passengers and baggage in the city. Any proposed change in a filed schedule
of rates and fares shall be filed with the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 66-34)
§ 117.05 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The applicant for a license under this chapter shall provide with the
application proof of financial responsibility to enable the City Council to
determine that the applicant is financially able to pay and discharge any
damages which may be assessed against the applicant or any of the applicant’s
taxi operators in an amount not less than $500,000 in any one accident and
$250,000 to any one person for personal injury. Also, for any damages which may
be assessed against the applicant or any of the applicant’s taxi operators an
amount of not less than $100,000 for property damage resulting from the
negligent operation of taxi service vehicles licensed under this chapter shall
be required. Such policies shall name the city as an additional insured. All
insurance required by this section shall be maintained in effect at all times.
(Prior Code, § 66-35)
Statutory reference:
   Minimum amounts of financial responsibility, see I.C. 9-25-4-5
§ 117.06 REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The City Council shall review each application and approve or
disapprove the issuance of a license, and it shall forthwith notify the
applicant.
   (B)   Upon receiving approval from the City Council for a taxi service
license, the applicant shall furnish and file with the Clerk-Treasurer the
following:
      (1)   A full description and identification number as it appears on the
certificate of title for each vehicle;
      (2)   The registration number of each vehicle;
      (3)   The name of each person who will operate each vehicle; and
      (4)   The business name of the taxi service.
(Prior Code, § 66-36)
§ 117.07 LICENSE AND PERMIT FEES.
   If the City Council approves the issuance of a license, the applicant shall
pay to the Clerk-Treasurer an annual license fee of $100 plus $20 for each
motor vehicle permit. The license and permits shall expire December 31 of each
calendar year. The Clerk-Treasurer, upon receiving payment, shall issue the
license and a permit for each motor vehicle; and upon payment of the annual
license and permit fees, thereafter, shall issue and renew the license and
permits unless revoked as provided in this chapter. The permits shall be
displayed in the motor vehicle for which the permit was issued. Should the
holder of a license desire to discontinue a motor vehicle from service and/or
place in service another vehicle, the licensee shall make application and
provide all information required in the original application.
(Prior Code, § 66-37)
§ 117.08 STANDARDS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The holder of a license issued under this chapter shall, at all times,
maintain all motor vehicles in a safe and clean condition. Rates and fares
shall not be charged in excess of those contained in the schedule of rates
filed with the City Council.
   (B)   The holder of a license shall comply with all provisions of this
chapter and all other city ordinances and all laws and regulations of the state
regarding the use and operation of motor vehicles, including those applicable
to motor vehicles for hire as public carriers.
(Prior Code, § 66-38)
§ 117.09 CONDUCT OF DRIVERS.
   The licensee under this chapter and the drivers of all licensed motor
vehicles shall abstain from any immoral, indecent, unsafe or unlawful acts of
conduct while engaged in providing services to the public under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 66-39)
§ 117.10 DRIVER QUALIFICATIONS.
   All drivers for a taxi service licensed under this chapter shall possess a
valid public passenger chauffeur license issued by the State Bureau of Motor
Vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 66-40)
Statutory reference:
   Operators for hire endorsement, see I.C. 9-24-8.5-5 et seq.
§ 117.11 COMPLAINTS.
   In the event of violation of the provisions of this chapter by the licensee,
the City Council may, upon complaint of any person or upon its own motion, cite
and require any licenseee to appear before the Council and show cause why the
license should not be revoked or suspended. The Council shall hear and
determine the merits of the complaint and shall make such orders as shall be
found necessary to remedy the cause of the complaint, or may revoke or suspend
the license to protect the public interest.
(Prior Code, § 66-41)
§ 117.12 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   Any licensee who violates the provisions of this chapter may have his or her
license and/or permit suspended or revoked by the City Council after a hearing
has been held.
(Prior Code, § 66-42)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who operates a taxi service without obtaining a valid license and
permits in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, or who continues to
operate a taxi service while a license is suspended or revoked, shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 66-43)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   SMOKING; PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC PLACES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Prohibition of use of firearms within the corporate limits of the city
   
130.02   Use of fireworks prohibited; exceptions
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 PROHIBITION OF USE OF FIREARMS WITHIN THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE
CITY.
   (A)   This section shall apply to all areas within the corporate boundaries
of the city.
   (B)   It is hereby unlawful for any person, to discharge a firearm as
defined by I.C. 35-47-1-5 within the corporate boundaries of the city.
   (C)   Any person who violates this section shall be subject to the penalties
provided for by the state for a Class C infraction.
   (D)   This section shall not affect the use of firearms which have legally
been approved for such use in areas designated for use of firearms or as
otherwise approved by the Police Department.
   (E)   This section shall not prohibit the reasonable use of firearms in the
protection of persons or property, including the protection of livestock or
farm animals in an area zoned for agriculture use.
(Prior Code, § 43-1) (Ord. 06-23, passed 6-12-2006) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 USE OF FIREWORKS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   The use of fireworks within the city at all times and locations with the
exception of the following dates and times is prohibited:
   (A)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on Memorial
Day weekend (Friday through Monday), June 29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3,
July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8 and July 9; and Labor Day weekend (Friday
through Monday);
   (B)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4;
   (C)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1;
   (D)   Any other time and location duly authorized by the city by permit to
be obtained prior to the scheduled event;
   (E)   Use of fireworks is restricted to property owned or authorized for use
by the user;
   (F)   Fireworks use is not permitted on city owned property, parks, roads,
easements or other publicly owned property without specific approval by the
city’s Fire Chief or his or her designee; and
   (G)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the Fire Chief, or his or her
designee, from preventing the use of fireworks due to weather conditions or any
other safety concern.
(Prior Code, § 43-2) (Ord. 12-28, passed 12-10-2012; Ord. 12-28, passed 5-13-
2013) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violations of §
130.02 shall be punished by a fine of no more than $500 per incident as well as
other penalty provided by this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 43-2)
(Ord. 12-10-2012, passed 3-11-2013; Ord. 12-28, passed 5-13-2013)
CHAPTER 131: SMOKING; PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC PLACES
Section
   
131.01   Purpose
   
131.02   Definitions
   
131.03   Application of chapter to city-owned and operated facilities
   
131.04   Smoking prohibited in public places
   
131.05   Prohibition of smoking in places of employment
   
131.06   Reasonable distance
   
131.07   Where smoking is not regulated
   
131.08   Declaration of establishment as smoking
   
131.09   Posting of signs
   
131.10   Change of status
   
131.11   Enforcement
   
131.12   Nonretaliation
   
131.13   Other applicable laws
   
131.14   Chapter to be broadly interpreted
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 PURPOSE.
   It is hereby declared, as a matter of public policy of the city, that the
city finds and declares that the purposes of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect the public health and welfare by prohibiting smoking in
public places, and places of employment; and
   (B)   To recognize that the need to breathe smoke-free air shall have
priority over the desire to smoke.
(Prior Code, § 43-31) (Ord. 09-09, passed 9-14-2009)
§ 131.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BAR. An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages
for consumption by guests on the premises and in which the serving of food is
only incidental to the consumption of those beverages, including, but not
limited to, taverns, nightclubs, cocktail lounges, and cabarets and designated
cigar bars.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and a ceiling that is enclosed on
all sides by permanent or temporary walls or windows (exclusive of doorways),
which extend from the floor to the ceiling, including, but not limited to,
elevators, lobbies, hallways and other common areas in buildings, restrooms,
lobbies, reception areas, rooms, chambers and buildings.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. Any enclosed area under the control of a public or
private employer in which employees normally work or frequent during the course
of employment, including, but not limited to, work areas, private offices,
employee lounges and restrooms, conference and class rooms, employee cafeterias
and hallways, bars and restaurants.
   PRIVATE CLUB. An organization, whether incorporated or not, which is the
owner, lessee or occupant of a building or portion thereof used exclusively for
club purposes at all times, which is operated solely for a recreational,
fraternal, social, patriotic, political, benevolent or athletic purpose, but
not for pecuniary gain, and which only sells alcoholic beverages incidental to
its operation. The affairs and management of the organization are conducted by
a board of directors, executive committee or similar body chosen by the members
at an annual meeting. The organization has established bylaws and/or a
constitution to govern its activities. The organization has been granted an
exemption from the payment of federal income tax as a club under 26 U.S.C. §
501.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any area used by the general public, including, but not
limited to, schools, private clubs, retail stores and financial institutions,
department stores, banks, laundromats, beauty and barber shops, retail food
production and marketing establishments, restaurants, retail service
establishments, all outdoor arenas, stadiums and amphitheaters and other
commercial establishments, regardless of whether a fee is charged for
admission.
   RESTAURANT. An eating establishment, including, but not limited to, coffee
shops, cafeterias, sandwich stands, and private and public school cafeterias,
which gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests or employees, as well
as kitchens and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the premises
for serving elsewhere. The term RESTAURANT shall include a bar area within the
restaurant.
   SMOKE or SMOKING. The act of lighting, carrying, inhaling from, or leaving a
lighted or smoldering cigar, cigarette, or pipe of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 43-32) (Ord. 09-09, passed 9-14-2009)
§ 131.03 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER TO CITY-OWNED AND OPERATED FACILITIES.
   All city-owned or operated facilities, including but not limited to,
buildings and surrounding grounds, vehicles owned, leased, or operated by the
city, parks, trails, parking lots as well as any city-sponsored event wherever
located within the city limits, shall be subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 43-33) (Ord. 09-09, passed 9-14-2009)
§ 131.04 SMOKING PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in all public places within the city, including
any outdoor area within a reasonable distance of a regulated area.
(Prior Code, § 43-34) (Ord. 09-09, passed 9-14-2009) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed areas within places of
employment. This includes, but is not limited to, common work areas,
auditoriums, classrooms, conference and meeting rooms, private offices,
elevators, hallways, medical facilities, cafeterias, employee lounges, stairs,
restrooms, vehicles and all other enclosed facilities.
(Prior Code, § 43-35) (Ord. 09-09, passed 9-14-2009) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 REASONABLE DISTANCE.
   Smoking shall be prohibited within a reasonable distance from any area where
smoking is prohibited by this chapter, so as to insure tobacco smoke does not
enter into establishments designated as smoke-free under this chapter through
entrances, windows, ventilation intakes or other means. In no event shall a
distance less than 20 feet be deemed reasonable.
(Prior Code, § 43-36) (Ord. 09-09, passed 9-14-2009) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 WHERE SMOKING IS NOT REGULATED.
   The prohibitions of §
131.04 shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Private residences, except when used as a licensed childcare, adult
day care or health care facility;
   (B)   Hotel and motel rooms that are rented to guests and are designated as
smoking rooms; provided however, that not more than 20% of rooms rented to
guests in a hotel or motel may be so designated. The status of rooms as smoking
or nonsmoking may not be changed, except to add additional nonsmoking rooms;
   (C)   Any restaurant or bar open to the public that prohibits patrons less
than 21 years of age and employs no persons less than 21 years of age;
   (D)   Any outdoor area a reasonable distance from any regulated area;
   (E)   Any work vehicle used in the course of employment in which the driver
is the only occupant and the employer does not object to smoking in the
vehicle; and
   (F)   Private clubs that prohibits patrons less than 21 years of age and
employs no persons less than 21 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 43-37) (Ord. 09-09, passed 9-14-2009)
§ 131.08 DECLARATION OF ESTABLISHMENT AS SMOKING.
   Any restaurant, bar or private club that elects to allow smoking pursuant to
the conditions contained herein shall inform the Director of Community
Development of their decision in writing prior to allowing smoking under §
131.07.
(Prior Code, § 43-38) (Ord. 09-09, passed 9-14-2009)
§ 131.09 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   (1)   Every public place and place of employment where smoking is
prohibited by this chapter shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous
sign clearly stating that smoking is prohibited.
      (2)   “No Smoking” signs shall be made available from the city at the
City Services Building. Smoking shall be prohibited anywhere a sign indicating
such is posted.
   (B)   Every restaurant, bar or private club that allows smoking shall have
posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly stating that smoking is
permitted.
(Prior Code, § 43-39) (Ord. 09-09, passed 9-14-2009)
§ 131.10 CHANGE OF STATUS.
   An establishment’s change of status shall be allowed by written petition to
the Community Development Department. A fee may be charged in the amount of no
more than $100. A change of status may be filed no more than once annually.
(Prior Code, § 43-40) (Ord. 09-09, passed 9-14-2009)
§ 131.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced by the city, the Community Development
Department or any duly authorized representative thereof.
   (B)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this chapter may
initiate enforcement with the Community Development Department.
   (C)   The building inspector, Fire Department or their designees shall,
while an establishment is undergoing otherwise mandated inspections, inspect
for compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   An owner, manager, operator or employee of an establishment regulated
by this chapter shall inform persons violating this chapter of the appropriate
provisions thereof.
(Prior Code, § 43-41) (Ord. 09-09, passed 9-14-2009)
§ 131.12 NONRETALIATION.
   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire or in any manner
retaliate against any employee, applicant for employment, or customer because
such employee, applicant, or customer exercises any right to a smoke-free
environment afforded by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 43-43) (Ord. 09-09, passed 9-14-2009)
§ 131.13 OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS.
   This chapter shall not be interpreted to permit smoking where it is
otherwise restricted by other applicable laws or to supersede any local laws
which are more restrictive.
(Prior Code, § 43-44) (Ord. 09-09, passed 9-14-2009)
§ 131.14 CHAPTER TO BE BROADLY INTERPRETED.
   This chapter shall be construed broadly to effectuate the purposes described
in the preamble of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 43-45) (Ord. 09-09, passed 9-14-2009)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by the
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $50. Any
matter referred to a court of law for adjudication shall also be subject to all
court fees and costs, including attorney fees incurred in the collection.
   (B)   A person who owns, manages, operates or otherwise controls a public
place or place of employment and who fails to comply with the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to penalties as follows:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $100 for a first violation;
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $200 for a second violation within one year;
      (3)   A fine not exceeding $500 for each additional violation within one
year; and
      (4)   Any and all fees and costs, including attorney fees required in the
collection of any fine.
   (C)   Each day on which a violation of this chapter occurs shall be
considered a separate and distinct violation.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other penalty provision herein, the city reserves
the right to proceed under any legal or equitable remedies available under the
laws of the state. Additionally, the city reserves the right to withdraw any
license or permit issued by the city for continued violations of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 43-42) (Ord. 09-09, passed 9-14-2009)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
      
152.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC WAYS
      
153.   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Adopted
Enforcement of Building Standards
   
150.15   Adoption by reference
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.30   Definition from state law adopted by reference
   
150.31   Statutory authority
   
150.32   Applicability of state provisions; conflicts
   
150.33   Unsafe building declared public nuisance
   
150.34   Building Commissioner’s authority
   
150.35   Additional minimum standards
   
150.36   Standards of workmanship
Building and Construction Related Fees
   
150.50   Building, zoning and development fees collected by Economic and
Community Development Department
   
150.51   Inspection and review fees collected by Department of Public Works
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 ADOPTED.
   Section 15.04.010 of the City Code of 1990, as amended (the Building Code of
the City of Westfield, Indiana), as now or hereafter amended, is hereby
incorporated in this section as if set out at length in this section.
(Prior Code, § 14-31)
ENFORCEMENT OF BUILDING STANDARDS
§ 150.15 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   I.C. 36-7-9 on enforcement of building standards is hereby adopted by
reference as if fully set out in this section. Two copies of the references are
on file in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 14-61)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of statute by ordinance, see I.C. 36-7-9-3
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.30 DEFINITION FROM STATE LAW ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The definition of “substantial property interest” set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-
2 is hereby incorporated by reference in this section as if copied in full.
(Prior Code, § 14-91)
Statutory reference:
   Dwellings unfit for human habitation, see I.C. 16-41-20
§ 150.31 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9.
(Prior Code, § 14-92)
§ 150.32 APPLICABILITY OF STATE PROVISIONS; CONFLICTS.
   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 is hereby incorporated by reference in this
section. All proceedings within the city for inspection, repair or removal of
unsafe buildings shall be governed by such law and the provisions of this
section. If the provisions of this section conflict with the provisions of I.C.
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28, then the provisions of the state statute shall
control.
(Prior Code, § 14-93)
§ 150.33 UNSAFE BUILDING DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the city which are determined after
inspection by the Building Commissioner to be unsafe as defined in §
150.35 are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition and/or removal.
(Prior Code, § 14-94)
§ 150.34 BUILDING COMMISSIONER’S AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized to administer and to proceed
under the provisions of the law referred to in §
150.32 in ordering the repair, rehabilitation, demolition and/or removal of any
buildings found to be unsafe as specified therein or as specified in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 14-95)
§ 150.35 ADDITIONAL MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   The description of an unsafe building contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is hereby
supplemented to provide minimum standards for building condition or maintenance
in the city by adding the following definition.
   UNSAFE BUILDING. Any building or structure which has any or all of the
following conditions or defects, provided that such conditions or defects exist
to the extent that life, health, property or safety of the public or its
occupants are endangered:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is not
of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (2)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
      (3)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or
location;
      (4)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings or
similar structure, purpose or location;
      (5)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
      (6)   Whenever any portion of a building or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
      (7)   Whenever any portion thereof has cracked, warped, buckled or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction;
      (8)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of dilapidation, deterioration or decay; faulty construction; the removal,
movement or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose
of supporting such building; the deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its
foundation; or any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse;
      (9)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it was constructed or
is or was being used;
      (10)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
      (11)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation,
shows damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members, or damage or
deterioration of its nonsupporting members, enclosing or outside walls or
coverings;
      (12)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind, earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to
become an attractive nuisance or freely accessible to persons for the purpose
of committing unlawful acts;
      (13)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists or
is maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of this state, or of any law or ordinance of this state or city relating to the
condition, location or structure of buildings;
      (14)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any nonsupporting
part, member or portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member or
portion less than 65% of the strength, fire-resisting qualities or
characteristics, or weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by
law in the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height, weight
and occupancy in the same location;
      (15)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities, or otherwise, is determined by any governmental official to be
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or in such a condition that is likely
to cause sickness or disease;
      (16)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits or lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction is determined by any governmental
official to be a fire hazard; and
      (17)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure, or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
(Prior Code, § 14-96)
§ 150.36 STANDARDS OF WORKMANSHIP.
   All work for the reconstruction, repair or demolition of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good workmanlike manner according to the
accepted standards and practices in the trade. The provisions of the building
laws, as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-3, adopted as rules of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, shall be considered standard and acceptable
practice for all matters covered by this subchapter or orders issued pursuant
to this division by the Building Commissioner of the city.
(Prior Code, § 14-97)
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION RELATED FEES
§ 150.50 BUILDING, ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT FEES COLLECTED BY ECONOMIC AND
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   With respect to all fees set forth in the tables below:
      (1)   Fractional acreage or square feet shall be rounded up to the next
whole number for purposes of calculating fees; and
      (2)   Application fees do not include costs associated with an
applicant’s public noticing requirements.
   (B)   The following fees shall be collected by the by the Economic and
Community Development Department for building, zoning and development related
activities:
      (1)   Planning and zoning fees.
Zoning Map Change
Zoning Map Change
   Modification of commitments            $550
   Planned unit development district      $1,500 + $40/acre
   PUD District ordinance amendment       $1,000 + $40/acre
   Standard zoning district               $800 + $40/acre
Subdivision
   Certificate of correction              $250 + $35/lot
   Condominium review                     $55 + $15/unit
   Minor plat/lot combination             $250 + $35/lot
   Plat amendment (replat)                $250 + $35/lot
   Plat vacation                          $525
   Primary plat                           $1,000 + $35/lot
   Secondary plat                         $500 +$35/lot
Overall Development Plan
   Institution/Non-profit                 $1,000 + $35/acre
   Nonresidential                         $1,000 + $35/acre
   Multi-family                           $1,000 + $35/acre
   Residential                            $1,000 + $35/acre
Detailed Development Plan
   Institution/Non-profit                 $1,000 + $35/acre
   Multi-family                           $1,000 + $35/acre
   Nonresidential                         $1,000 + $35/acre
   Without a building                     $250
Board of Zoning Appeals
   Administrative appeal                  $550
   Each additional request (VS, VU or SE) $150
   Renewal request and/or modification of $250
condition
   Special exception                      $675
   Variance of development standard
      Single-family                    $450
      Other                            $675
   Variance of use                        $675
Sign Permits
   Permit review                          $125
   Per square foot over 32 square feet    $5
Other Fees
   Administrative determination/zoning    $110
letter
   Certificate of compliance              $110
   Floodplain development permit          $110
   Greenhouse sales permit                $425
   Mobile food vehicle license            $150
      After June 30th                  $100
      Renewal (subsequent year)        $100
   Mobile food vending                    $150
   Mobile food vending - reoccurring event$150
   Temporary use/event permit             $250
   Tree in-lieu fee                       $300 per tree
Required Inspections
   Commercial landscaping inspection      $100 per 100 total plants (rounded
                                             to the nearest 100 plants)
   Residential common area landscaping    $100 per $100 total plants
inspection                                   (rounded to the nearest 100
                                             plants)
   First re-inspection                    N/A
   Second re-inspection                   Same as initial inspection fee
   Third re-inspection                    Double the initial inspection fee
   Subsequent re-inspections              Triple the initial inspection fee
Zoning Ordinance
                                             Any person who violates, disobeys,
                                             omits, neglects or refuses to
                                             comply with, or who resists the
                                             enforcement of any provision of
   Penalty/violation                      Ch. 153 shall be subject to
                                             judgment of not less than $25 nor
                                             more than $300 for each. Each day
                                             that a violation is permitted to
                                             exist shall constitute a separate
                                             offense.
 
      (2)   Building fees.
Agriculture
   Agriculture/farm buildings (major electrical, plumbing, sewage or water  $110 +
installations)                                                                 $0.11/sq.
                                                                               ft.
   Agriculture/farm buildings without major electrical, plumbing, sewage or $110 +
water installations                                                            $0.11/sq.
                                                                               ft.
Residential
                                                                               $750 +
   Multi-family dwelling                                                    $0.11/sq.
                                                                               ft.
                                                                               $600 +
   Single-family/two-family/tri-quad dwelling                               $0.11/sq.
                                                                               ft.
Residential Accessory Structures
                                                                               $250 +
   (e.g. w/foundations, pools)                                              $0.11/sq.
                                                                               ft.
                                                                               $150 +
   Residential addition                                                     $0.11/sq.
                                                                               ft.
Nonresidential
                                                                               $600 +
   Commercial addition                                                      $0.22/sq.
                                                                               ft.
                                                                               $600 +
   New construction                                                         $0.22/sq.
                                                                               ft.
                                                                               $350 +
   Remodel/tenant finish                                                    $0.22/sq.
                                                                               ft.
Other Fees                                                                      
   Building relocation                                                      $150/
                                                                               structure
   Certificate of occupancy                                                 $110/unit
   Demolition permit                                                        $150/
                                                                               structure
   Permit card address change                                               $15/
                                                                               address
   Replacement permit card                                                  $30
   Temporary building/sales trailer                                         $350/
                                                                               month
   Topsoil replacement inspection                                           $75
Occupying Structure without Certificate of Occupancy
   Nonresidential                                                           $5,000
    Residential                                                            $2,500
Commencing Construction without Required Permit(s)
   Nonresidential                                                           $1,500
   Residential                                                              $500
 
      (3)   Inspection fees.
Residential
   Cancelled inspection (not available for footing$75
   Dry-wall                                       $75
   Final                                          $75
   Fire Marshal                                   N/A
   Footing                                        $75
   Foundation/underslab plumbing                  $75
   Missed                                         $350
   Rough-in                                       $75
Commercial
   Cancelled inspection (not available for footing$110
   Dry-wall                                       $110
   Final                                          $110
   Fire Marshal                                   $110
   Footing                                        $110
   Foundation/underslab plumbing                  $110
   Missed                                         $350
   Rough-in                                       $110
Pool Inspections
   Bonding grid                                   $75
   Final                                          $75
   Rough bonding                                  $75
 
      (4)   Other inspection fees when required or requested.
Residential
   Above ceiling                                                         $75
   After hours or weekend inspection (not to exceed 4 hours door-to-door $250
including inspection time)
   Deck                                                                  $75
   Energy-insulation                                                     $75
   Porch                                                                 $75
   Pre-final                                                             $75
   Same-day inspection request                                           N/A
   Trunk line                                                            $75
   All other inspections                                                 $75
Commercial
   Above ceiling                                                         $110
   Energy-insulation                                                     $110
   Porch                                                                 N/A
   Pre-final                                                             $110
   Same-day inspection request                                           N/A
   Trunk line                                                            N/A
   All other inspections                                                 $110
After Hours or Weekend Inspection (not to exceed 4 hours door-to-door       $250
including inspection time)
 
      (5)   Re-inspection fees.
Residential
   First re-inspectio$75
   Second re-inspecti$150
   Third re-inspectio$300
   Fourth re-inspecti$600
Commercial
   First re-inspectio$110
   Second re-inspecti$220
   Third re-inspectio$440
   Fourth re-inspecti$880
 
(Prior Code, § 14-131) (Ord. 13-32, passed 12-9-2013; Ord. 19-64, passed 12-19-
2019; Ord. 21-62, passed 12-27-2021; Ord. 22-64, passed 12-27-2022; Ord. 24-74,
passed 12-23-2024)
§ 150.51 INSPECTION AND REVIEW FEES COLLECTED BY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   Erosion control fees.
 
Maintenance bond walkthrough (punch list)                        $75/hour
Monthly erosion control inspection                               $75/hour
Performance bond walkthrough (punch list)                        $75/hour
Perimeter control inspection (pre-construction) inspection to be $75/hour
completed prior to any grading
Post weather event walkthrough (as required)                     $75/hour
Punch list completion inspection                                 $75/hour
Punch list completion inspection (bond release)                  $75/hour
 
   (B)   Streets and curbs.
Asphalt placement inspection (base)                  $75/hour
Asphalt placement inspection (binder)                $75/hour
Asphalt placement inspection (tack coat and surface) $75/hour
Concrete pavement inspection (if applicable)         $75/hour
Curb placement                                       $75/hour
Curb underdrain installation                         $75/hour
Maintenance bond walkthrough (punch list)            $75/hour
Performance bond walkthrough (punch list)            $75/hour
Punch list completion inspection (bond release)      $75/hour
Sidewalk and walking path inspection                 $75/hour
Soil stabilization (if applicable)                   $75/hour
Stone base inspection (secondary proof roll)         $75/hour
Subgrade evaluation (proof roll)                     $75/hour
 
   (C)   Storm sewers.
 
Daily installation inspection (installation quality control) $75/hour
Maintenance bond walkthrough (punch list)                    $75/hour
Performance bond walkthrough (punch list)                    $75/hour
Pipe televising efforts                                      $75/hour
Punch list completion inspection                             $75/hour
Punch list completion inspection (bond release)              $75/hour
 
   (D)   Monumentation and signage.
 
Regulatory signage and inspection (prior to opening) $75/hour
Subdivision boundary inspection (if required)        $75/hour
Traffic/road striping inspection (prior to opening)  $75/hour
 
   (E)   Miscellaneous/other.
 
Auxiliary lane improvements                                      $75/hour
Exterior road improvements                                       $75/hour
Other items as required (per city construction standards)        $75/hour
Safety inspection (if requested/as required)                     $75/hour
Traffic control inspection (when activities impact right-of-way) $75/hour
 
   (F)   Rezone plan review fees.
 
Plan review fee          $100
Additional fee per sheet  
   1 to 20 sheets     $25
   21 to 40 sheets    $50
   41 to 60 sheets    $75
   61 to 80 sheets    $100
   Each additional she$1/sheet
 
   (G)   Planned unit development (PUD) plan review fees.
 
Plan review fee          $750
Additional fee per sheet  
   1 to 20 sheets     $50
   21 to 40 sheets    $250
   41 to 60 sheets    $450
   61 to 80 sheets    $650
   Each additional she$20/sheet
 
   (H)   Development plan review fees. Review fee includes initial review only.
An additional charge of $250 per review will be charged for the second and all
subsequent reviews.
 
Plan review fee          $1,050
Additional fee per sheet  
   1 to 20 sheets     $50
   21 to 40 sheets    $250
   41 to 60 sheets    $450
   61 to 80 sheets    $650
   Each additional she$20/sheet
 
   (I)   Specialty plan review and other fees. If petitioner chooses to select
the expedited plan review option this will guarantee that the initial review
will be completed and returned within seven business days. All subsequent re-
reviews will be completed and returned within three business days. The
expedited plan review option includes the initial review and one re-review, all
subsequent review will be billed at a rate of $120 per hour. The Public Works
Department may elect to hire a consultant to perform this review in order to
meet deadline requirements.
Construction sedimentation control plan    $300
Expedited plan review fee                  $3,000 + applicable review fees (see
                                           above)
Fire service plan review fee               $265
Maintenance bond review and application    $250
processing
Performance bond review and application    $250
processing
Plan re-review fee                         $250
Primary plat review fee                    $500
Private to public street conversion review $500/request
Secondary plat review fee                  $500
 
(Prior Code, § 14-132) (Ord. 13-12, passed 12-9-2013; Ord. 19-64, passed 12-19-
2019; Ord. 21-62, passed 12-27-2021; Ord. 22-64, passed 12-27-2022; Ord. 24-74,
passed 12-23-2024)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   No person, whether as owner, lessee, sublessee or occupant, shall
erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, remove, demolish, equip, use,
occupy or maintain any building or premises, or cause or permit the same to be
done, contrary to or in violation of any of the provisions of §§
150.30 through
150.36 or any order issued by the Building Commissioner. Any person violating
the provisions of §§
150.30 through
150.36 shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 14-98)
CHAPTER 151: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
Section
   
151.01   Purpose and intent
   
151.02   Best management practices (BMPs) for construction lots
   
151.03   Responsibilities of permittee
   
151.04   Administration and application
   
151.05   Enforcement
   
151.06   WPWD erosion control inspections
   
151.07   WPWD erosion control inspection fees
   
151.08   Forms
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The primary purpose of this chapter is to ensure perimeter sediment
and erosion control, with best management practices (BMPs) being utilized to
prevent and minimize sediment and erosion discharge from leaving the
construction site. The intent of this chapter is to prevent non-stormwater
discharges, erosion and minimize sediment from leaving the site. Failure to do
so can result in damage to adjacent property, damage to the MS4s storm sewer
system, and contribute to the polluting of streams, lakes and rivers.
   (B)   The city’s improvement location permit application (“ILP”), generally
known as a building permit, permittee (the “permittee”) is responsible for
ensuring that adequate BMPs are in place and functioning until the construction
project obtains a certificate of occupancy (“C of O”) from the City Building
Department. The property owner, after the C of O is issued, is responsible to
maintain the erosion control measures until adequate ground cover (70% mature
growth) is established and the property is required to have established
adequate ground cover within two years from the issuance of the C of O.
   (C)   Compliance with this chapter shall be the responsibility of the party
listed on the ILP filed with the city.
(Prior Code, § 34-111) (Ord. 06-52, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 15-03, passed 3-9-
2015)
§ 151.02 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs) FOR CONSTRUCTION LOTS.
   (A)   Examples of BMPs include, but are not limited to: sediment fence,
straw mat, seed, mulch, coconut and fiber rolls, or other types approved by the
city’s Public Works Department (“WPWD”).
   (B)   The sequence of installation shall be:
      (1)   Grading/excavating. Install all BMPs prior to any grading or
excavating activities, where practical;
      (2)   Inlet protection. Ensure that the BMPs are in place and functioning
for both yard inlets and curb inlets around the perimeter of the lot;
      (3)   Protection of adjacent lots. Install BMPs along the common lot line
of adjacent lots;
      (4)   Stabilize stockpiles. Install BMPs to stabilize stockpiles to
prevent erosion and sediment from entering the street;
      (5)   Installation of BMPs. Follow manufacturer’s recommendations and
requirements for the installation of all BMPs;
      (6)   Temporary construction entrance. A temporary stone access drive is
required for all lots and shall be utilized for access onto the lot;
      (7)   Maintenance. The builder is responsible for maintaining and
repairing all BMPs as needed throughout construction;
      (8)   Final grading. BMPs may be removed in order to complete final
grading on the lot. However, BMPs will be required to be reinstalled until seed
germination establishes 70% mature growth. On lots where sod is installed,
erosion control measures are not required to be installed, unless requested by
the WPWD. For lots where sod installation is delayed, the contractor will be
required to maintain BMPs until the sod can be installed effectively; and
      (9)   Concrete wash out. Required onsite or within development.
(Prior Code, § 34-112) (Ord. 06-52, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 15-03, passed 3-9-
2015)
§ 151.03 RESPONSIBILITIES OF PERMITTEE.
   (A)   The permittee is responsible for ensuring that all BMPs measures
remain in place during the construction process and that the installation and
continuous maintenance of all lot erosion and sediment control devices are
monitored.
   (B)   Periodic inspection will be necessary to ensure that erosion and
sediment control measures are functioning as designed and installed per the
manufacturer’s specifications. In addition, to standard periodic inspections,
this chapter requires that the permittee conduct inspections after each rain
event of one-half-inch or more in a 24-hour period. Any problems noted during
these inspections shall be corrected immediately.
   (C)   Once the permittee has started construction, the permittee is
responsible for the maintenance of erosion and sediment control measures
protecting yard inlets on and/or adjacent to their lots, as well as curb inlets
along the street frontage. Sediment must not be allowed to enter the storm
sewer system and allowing such is a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   A temporary construction entrance provides a place for parking
vehicles off of the street and a spot where material can be off loaded. This
requirement is to provide a stable surface for parking vehicles where mud and
other debris will not to be tracked onto the street. Proper maintenance of the
area is required until such time as a permanent driveway is installed.
   (E)   During the entire construction process, the permittee is responsible
to ensure that mud, dirt, rocks, and other debris are not allowed to erode onto
streets and sidewalks, nor tracked onto the streets by construction vehicles.
At no time shall any mud or other debris be deposited onto the street.
   (F)   Failure to keep streets clear of mud sediment, and debris will result
in an enforcement action by the WPWD under the authority of the city’s
stormwater management regulations. The permittee will be responsible for
incurring all costs associated with cleaning the streets.
(Prior Code, § 34-113) (Ord. 06-52, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 15-03, passed 3-9-
2015)
§ 151.04 ADMINISTRATION AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   The WPWD will administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all construction activity (direct or
indirect stormwater discharges, and illicit discharges) entering within the
storm drainage system, MS4 or receiving waters under the jurisdiction of the
city.
   (C)   Any permittee subject to an NPDES stormwater discharge permit shall
comply with all provisions of such permit. If provisions of this chapter are
more restrictive than the NPDES stormwater discharge permit, proof of
compliance with said permit and this chapter may be required in a form
acceptable to the WPWD prior to allowing discharges to the MS4.
   (D)   The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed as additional
requirements to minimum standards required by other provisions of the city’s
code of ordinances, and as supplemental requirements to Indiana’s Rule 5
regarding stormwater discharge associated with construction activity and
Indiana’s Rule 13 regarding stormwater runoff associated with MS4 conveyances.
In case of conflicting requirements, the most restrictive shall apply. Unless
otherwise stated, the most recent versions or editions of said codes,
ordinances, laws, and statutes shall apply.
   (E)   The city, by and through its Council, has the authority to modify,
grant exemptions and/or waive any and all the requirements of this chapter. A
meeting with the WPWD may be requested by an permittee to discuss the
applicability of various provisions of the chapter with regard to unique or
unusual circumstances. However, any initial determination of such applicability
shall not be binding on future determinations of the WPWD.
   (F)   The city’s Utility and Infrastructure Construction Standards and
Specifications Manual, and amendments thereto, are hereby incorporated herein
by reference, with copies of the same being maintained in the WPWD for public
inspection during regular business hours.
   (G)   Technical words and technical phrases that are not defined in this
chapter, but which have acquired particular meanings in law or in technical
usage shall be construed according to such meanings and as defined in 327
I.A.C. 15-13 and 327 I.A.C. 15-5 of state law and other provisions of the
city’s code of ordinances.
   (H)   The city shall be permitted to enter and inspect any premises subject
to regulation under this chapter. It shall be unlawful for the permittee of any
premises to refuse to allow the WPWD to enter upon the premises for the
purposes set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 34-114) (Ord. 06-52, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 15-03, passed 3-9-
2015)
§ 151.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Notice of violation and stop work order.
      (1)   In the event a permittee has violated the terms of this chapter,
the city may order compliance by written notice of violation to the permittee.
Such notice may require:
         (a)   Issuance of a pending stop work order or issuance of a stop work
order;
         (b)   The restoration or installation of new BMP measures;
         (c)   Payment of a fine; and/or
         (d)   Revocation or suspension of the erosion control inspection
permit.
      (2)   The city may, without prior notice of stop work order or violation,
suspend storm drainage system or MS4 access to a permittee when stormwater
discharges present or may present imminent and substantial danger.
      (3)   The notice of a stop work order due to a violation will:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Include a description of the property for identification;
         (c)   Include a statement of the violation(s) and section violated and
why the notice or order is being issued; and
         (d)   Failure to comply with the conditions set forth in this chapter
will result in an initial verbal warning. If the violation is not corrected
within one day from the verbal warning, a pending stop work order will be
issued and a penalty of $50 will be assessed for a re-inspection. After the
third day from the initial verbal warning, a stop work order will be issued and
an additional penalty of $50 will be assessed for a re-inspection to ensure
that the repairs and improvements required to the property are in compliance
with the provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   Reinspection of remedied violations will be assessed a re-
inspection fee in accordance with the fee schedule in this chapter.
      (5)   If the permittee fails to comply with a stop work order, then the
WPWD will take steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage or
remediate a violation. All reasonable costs associated with the abatement or
restoration shall be assessed against the owner of the property and may be
filed as a lien against the property in the amount of the assessment. It shall
be unlawful for any permittee, owner, agent or person in possession of any
premises to refuse to allow the WPWD or its designee to enter upon the premises
for the purposes set forth above.
      (6)   In the event of a stop work order, the city shall not reinstate the
erosion control inspection permit or MS4 access to the permittee until the
permittee presents proof, satisfactory to the city, that the corrections have
been made. The permittee violates this chapter if the permittee reinstates MS4
access to the premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior
approval of the city.
      (7)   In addition to the penalties listed above, if construction
activities are conducted contrary to the provisions of this chapter, the city
may order the work stopped by notice in writing, in the form of a stop work
order, served on any permittee engaged in the doing or causing of such work to
be done; and any such permittee shall forth with stop such work until
authorized by the WPWD to proceed with the work.
   (B)   Appeal of notice of violation.
      (1)   Any permittee receiving a notice of violation may appeal the
determination of violation to the Council, for rescission of the notice or
order, or for a modification, variance or extension of time for compliance on
one or more of the following bases:
         (a)   A stop work order served in accordance with this chapter is in
error;
         (b)   Should, due to hardship, be modified or entitled to a variance
from enforcement; or
         (c)   That a reasonable extension of time for the compliance should be
granted upon the grounds of a demonstrated case of hardship and evidence of an
actual undertaking to correct the violation, together with a legitimate intent
to comply within a reasonable time period.
      (2)   A request for rescission, modification, variance or extension of
time shall be made in writing, within ten days of the permittee’s receipt of a
copy of the notice or order, to the city’s Clerk- Treasurer’s office, to be
placed on the Council agenda. The Council shall schedule a hearing within 30
days of receipt of the request.
      (3)   All hearings before the Council shall be open to the public. The
permittee, the permittee’s representative, and any persons whose interests are
affected shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
      (4)   At the conclusion of the hearing the Council may reverse, affirm or
modify the order, notice, requirement, decision or determination appealed from,
and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination as justice
would require. The Council’s determination and findings of fact shall be
recorded and if a notice or order is affirmed or modified, the Council shall,
in the determination on appeal, re-establish a reasonable timeline to make the
repairs and improvements required to bring the violation into compliance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Transfer of ownership. No owner of any premises upon whom a stop work
order has been served shall sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or otherwise
dispose of to another until the provisions of the notice of violation have been
complied with, or until such owner first furnishes the grantee, transferee,
mortgagee or lessee a true copy of any compliance order or notice of violation
issued by the city and furnishes to the city a signed and notarized statement
from the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee, acknowledging the receipt of
such notice of violation and fully accepting the responsibility without
condition for making corrections or repairs required by such notice of
violation.
(Prior Code, § 34-115) (Ord. 06-52, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 15-03, passed 3-9-
2015)
§ 151.06 WPWD EROSION CONTROL INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The WPWD erosion control inspector will inspect erosion and sediment
control measures in conjunction with routine inspections. Inspections will
ensure that proper placement and installation of erosion and sediment control
measures are in place.
   (B)   The first inspection will occur at the time prior to the pushing of
the pad and foundation installation. Standard items to be checked are:
protection of adjacent lots, protection of inlets, grading/excavating and that
stockpiles are stabilized. If BMPs are not installed in the correct location
and/or not installed correctly, the inspection may be denied, a stop work order
required or fees may be applied.
   (C)   It is anticipated that by the time the foundation inspection is
requested, backfilling of the foundation will have been complete and all
erosion and sediment control measures will have been installed. If the
permittee fails to install the proper erosion and sediment control measure,
this may result in the inspection being denied, a stop work order required or
fees may be applied.
   (D)   For unique situations the erosion control inspector will be available
to discuss erosion and sediment control measures for any lot and the sequencing
for installation of BMPs.
(Prior Code, § 34-116) (Ord. 06-52, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 15-03, passed 3-9-
2015)
§ 151.07 WPWD EROSION CONTROL INSPECTION FEES.
   Fees for erosion control inspections shall be:
   (A)   Residential lots two acres or less $100 each;
   (B)   Residential lots greater than two acres will be assessed at $100 per
one-quarter-acre or portion thereof;
   (C)   Industrial, commercial, and retail outlets will be assessed at $100
per one-quarter-acre or portion thereof; and
   (D)   Additional re-inspections for denied and/or stop work orders or fines
will be assessed at $50 per re-inspection.
(Prior Code, § 34-117) (Ord. 06-52, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 15-03, passed 3-9-
2015)
§ 151.08 FORMS.
   The applicable permit forms are attached to Ordinance 06-52 as Exhibit A,
which are adopted by reference as set out in full herein.
(Prior Code, § 34-118) (Ord. 06-52, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 15-03, passed 3-9-
2015)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found in violation of any provisions of this chapter shall
be responsible for a civil infraction and subject to a maximum fine of $200 for
the first offense, $1,000 for the second offense, and a maximum of $7,500 for a
subsequence offense, plus cost, damages and expenses. Each day such violation
occurs or continues shall be deemed a separate offense and shall make the
violator liable for the imposition of a fine for each day. The rights and
remedies provided for in this section are cumulative and in addition to any
other remedies provided by law. An admission or determination of responsibility
shall not exempt the offender from compliance with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any person who aids or abets a person in violation of this chapter
shall be subject to the penalties provided in this section.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE means a violation of
the provisions of this chapter committed by the same person within 12 months of
a previous violation of the same provision of this chapter for which said
person admitted responsibility or was adjudicated to be responsible.
(Prior Code, § 34-115) (Ord. 06-52, passed 11-13-2006; Ord. 15-03, passed 3-9-
2015)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC WAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Bond required for construction projects within the city
Opening Public Ways
   
152.15   Permit required; application, deposit
   
152.16   Bond requirements
Vacation of Public Ways
   
152.30   Adoption of all applicable ordinances
Encroachment Specifications
   
152.45   Purpose and authority
   
152.46   Subgrade and backfill
   
152.47   Right-of-way encroachments
   
152.48   Encroachment permit authority
   
152.49   Types of right-of-way encroachments
   
152.50   Encroachment application and permit procedures
   
152.51   Encroachment permit insurance and bonding
   
152.52   Encroachment details
   
152.53   Encroachment permit fees and public improvement responsibility
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 BOND REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS WITHIN THE CITY.
   (A)   As a condition of approval of any applicable construction plan, the
applicant shall post a maintenance bond in favor of the city in an amount and
form to be determined by the Department of Public Works to provide for the
repair of any damage to perimeter roads within the city as a result of the
construction project of the applicant. Once the construction project is
complete and there has been demonstrated to the Department of Public Works that
no damage has occurred to the perimeter roads within the city, the maintenance
bond shall be released.
   (B)   As a condition of receiving any applicable construction permit, the
applicant shall submit to the Department of Public Works a construction routing
plan for construction vehicles with a declared gross vehicle weight rating of
20,000 pounds or more.
(Prior Code, § 54-1) (Ord. 06-33, passed 8-14-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Barrett Law funding, see I.C. 36-9-36 et seq.
   Local powers relating to public ways, see I.C. 36-9-2-5 et seq.
OPENING PUBLIC WAYS
§ 152.15 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION, DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Any person desiring to open or cut into any street, alley or other
public way, paved or unpaved, within the limits of the city shall be required
to obtain a specific permit for such purposes.
   (B)   The application for a permit to open any street, alley or other public
way shall be made to the Utilities Superintendent of the city, who shall have
the right and power, subject to the rulings of the City Council, to determine
whether or not the opening is necessary or desirable. The applicant shall be
advised of the manner and size of the opening which may be made and the
replacement of both fill and paving which shall be made, and the applicant
shall be required to follow such directions.
   (C)   A deposit of the higher amount of the $25 (minimum) or $5 per square
foot of the area of a paved street, alley or other public way or of $2.50 per
square foot of any unpaved street, alley or public way shall be paid to the
Clerk-Treasurer before the issuance or allowance of such permit. For public and
private utilities and contractors contemplating numerous cuts during a year, an
annual permit may be obtained for a fee of $25 together with a performance bond
in the amount of $1,000 made payable to the city.
   (D)   Receipt for deposit.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a receipt for such deposit with a
specifically prepared receipt which shall show:
         (a)   The location of such proposed opening;
         (b)   The estimated size of the opening;
         (c)   The condition of the street prior to the opening; and
         (d)   The amount of the deposit or if performance bond is on file.
      (2)   Possession of such receipt, properly endorsed by the Utilities
Superintendent of the city or deputy as he or she may nominate, shall
constitute a permit to open the street.
   (E)   When repair or replacement is completed to the satisfaction of the
Street Department of the city and if it has been replaced in at least as good
condition as before the entering of such way and without undue inconvenience or
cost to the city, the deposit shall be placed in the General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 54-31)
Statutory reference:
   Extraterritorial municipal regulation, I.C. 36-8-2-13
   Regulation of conduct or the use or possession of property that might
endanger the public health, safety or welfare, see I.C. 36-8-2-4
   Regulation of excavations and movement or removal of earth below ground
level, see I.C. 36-7-2-6
§ 152.16 BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any person performing any work as described in §
152.15 and pursuant to a permit from the city shall also agree to indemnify the
city and any other party interested in such work or its performance against all
claims, demands, actions, judgments, losses and expenses which may arise from
any injuries to persons or damage to any property resulting from such work in
the street or any public place.
   (B)   Every applicant (other than private or public utilities) for a permit
shall post a performance bond in the amount of $2,000 with the Clerk-Treasurer,
which bond will remain with the city until the completion and acceptance of the
work performed and posting of a maintenance bond as set out in this section.
   (C)   The performance bond shall be canceled only after the completion of
the work, inspection and approval by the Utilities Superintendent of the city
and the posting of a maintenance bond in the amount hereafter set out. Such
approval shall be based on the requirement that the public property disturbed
be replaced in as good or better condition than was its condition prior to the
beginning of the work, and upon the further requirement that the work shall be
in conformance with the stated conditions of the work permit. If the public
property has not been restored to a condition as good or better than it had
existed prior to the beginning of the work, the city may call upon the bonding
company to perform the work.
   (D)   The maintenance bond required under this chapter shall be in the
amount of $2,000 plus 10% of the cost of construction under the permit, to the
extent construction costs exceed $2,000. The maintenance bond shall be posted
with the City Clerk-Treasurer and shall be for a period of one year from the
date of posting. One year after the date of posting, the maintenance bond shall
be canceled.
   (E)   Any person who commences any of the work covered in §
152.15 prior to the time application for a permit is made to the Utilities
Superintendent shall be charged an application fee double that which would
otherwise be required, and is required to post a bond in double the amount that
would otherwise be required. This provision is without prejudice to the right
of the City Council to seek any other available remedy for violation of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 54-32)
VACATION OF PUBLIC WAYS
§ 152.30 ADOPTION OF ALL APPLICABLE ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances of the city heretofore or hereafter adopted to vacate any
public way of the city are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
chapter as fully as if attached hereto and incorporated herein. Such ordinances
are filed with the offices of the Community Development Department.
(Prior Code, § 54-66)
ENCROACHMENT SPECIFICATIONS
§ 152.45 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to protect, maintain and enhance the
public health, safety and general welfare by establishing minimum standards for
construction as required by the latest version of the city’s Utility and
Infrastructure Construction Standards. Also, this chapter provides procedures
to control, review and approve the construction of public improvements as well
as procedures for the control and maintenance of the city rights-of-way.
   (B)   The city is responsible for maintaining all streets and structures
accepted within the city rights-of-way, and it is therefore necessary to set
minimum standards for the construction of all improvements for which the city
will be responsible in order to avoid assuming unnecessary maintenance costs
and inconvenience to the citizens and businesses of the city.
   (C)   All improvements intended for public use, to be constructed in a city
right-of-way or easement, or to be constructed as a privately maintained
improvement must conform to city standards according to the latest version of
the utility and infrastructure construction standards and shall conform to or
exceed the standards as set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   The standards set forth in this chapter are intended to be minimum
standards. Variances from these standards may be considered by the Public Works
Director or designee upon written application. Variance requests must cite
unusual conditions and justify changes based upon sound engineering practices.
Proposed variances shall have been reviewed by any applicable agency of
jurisdiction before consideration by the Public Works Department. Also, any
proposed variances must be supported by a professional engineer that is
registered in good standing with the state.
   (E)   All improvements shall be constructed to conform to the most current
Standard Specifications of the Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT),
referred to in this chapter as “standard specifications”, except where
deviations are hereinafter allowed or variances granted. Copies of the standard
specifications are on file at the Public Works Department and are available for
review.
(Prior Code, § 54-91) (Ord. 03-04, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 152.46 SUBGRADE AND BACKFILL.
   Flowable fill shall be required as backfill on any cut made in streets,
alleys or shoulders within five-foot of the edge of asphalt. The Public Works
Director and/or his or her designee, herein referred to as “city” shall review
and approve any exceptions. The installation of all underground utilities
outside of the five-foot edge of asphalt easement shall be in compliance with
the latest version of the utility and infrastructure construction standards.
(Prior Code, § 54-92) (Ord. 03-04, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 152.47 RIGHT-OF-WAY ENCROACHMENTS.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to open, cut, bore into or under
any street, alley or other public way, paved or unpaved, or to obstruct the
right-of-way for the express purpose of construction, vending, or other purpose
restricting the intended use of the right-of-way within the limits of the city
shall be required to obtain a specific permit for such purpose. Aerial work
beyond five feet of pavement which does not obstruct traffic or cause any
traffic hazards and does not damage the city’s right-of-way is exempt from
permits.
(Prior Code, § 54-93) (Ord. 03-04, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 152.48 ENCROACHMENT PERMIT AUTHORITY.
   The Public Works Department has the legal responsibility for the management
of all city property. The proper use of the public rights-of-way are within the
legal authority of the Public Works Department. All encroachments shall be in
accordance with this chapter and subject to the authorization of the Public
Works Department. The City Council shall hereby grant the Director of Public
Works the authority to approve encroachment permits, as an agent of the city,
on specifically designated local streets for normal and routine encroachment
requests. The Director shall have the right to appoint a deputy to perform the
duties of encroachment permit administration.
(Prior Code, § 54-94) (Ord. 03-04, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 152.49 TYPES OF RIGHT-OF-WAY ENCROACHMENTS.
   The following right-of-way encroachments which shall specifically require an
encroachment permit:
   (A)   Right-of-way cuts.
      (1)   The extension of services to a new development from existing city
right-of-way;
      (2)   The extension of services to existing homes in the right-of-way;
      (3)   Upgrade of service to a single user within the right-of-way;
      (4)   Directional bores within the right-of-way;
      (5)   Parallel, diagonal or perpendicular cuts through the existing
pavement or the right-of-way;
      (6)   Installation of overhead services within the right-of-way;
      (7)   Emergency encroachments; and
      (8)   Open trenching.
   (B)   Right-of-way blockage.
      (1)   Obstruction due to dumpsters, construction equipment, materials or
signage;
      (2)   Sidewalk sales commercial and residential;
      (3)   Business awnings, canopies or sign encroachments;
      (4)   Authorized plantings within the right-of-way;
      (5)   Building faces restoration and renovations; and
      (6)   Any work to be done by the resident pertaining to drive approaches
or sidewalk replacement.
   (C)   Curb cuts/new access into existing city right-of-way.
      (1)   New residential driveways;
      (2)   Upgrade of commercial or residential driveways; and
      (3)   Addition of auxiliary lanes to existing development in accordance
with city standards.
   (D)   Special provision encroachments.
      (1)   Pavement resurfaced within 36 months of encroachment application;
and
      (2)   Brick streets, alleys, sidewalks or any other brick surface within
the right-of-way of the city.
(Prior Code, § 54-95) (Ord. 03-04, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 152.50 ENCROACHMENT APPLICATION AND PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Generally. All encroachment permit applications shall be in written
form. Applications must be submitted to the Public Works Department prior to
the encroachment being granted. The encroachment permit application shall be
administered and reviewed by the Public Works Department and approved only
after the required conditions of the permit have been established and all
conditions are met to the satisfaction of the Public Works Department Director
or designee. On all applications submitted there will be up to a ten-working-
day review period. No work will be allowed prior to the review. A penalty fee
of up to $500 will be enforced by the city with a stop work order for
unauthorized work performed before permits are approved. All permit work shall
be performed Monday through Friday, during the hours of 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.,
unless pre-approved by the Director and/or his or her designee. Permittee’s are
responsible for reimbursement of any overtime incurred by the inspectors for
any work done out of the normal business hours of Monday through Friday, 7:30
a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Possession of a properly endorsed encroachment permit by the
city shall constitute permission to encroach upon the city rights-of-way. The
permit shall be available at all times, on site during the period of
encroachment.
   (B)   Standard encroachment permit application. Standard encroachment permit
applications must be obtained through the Westfield Public Works Department,
2706 E. 171st Street, Westfield IN 46074. The permittee must submit the
original encroachment permit application, and a drawing of the proposed right-
of-way encroachment to the Director or designee. Upon the receipt of the
application, the permittee shall be notified after a review period of up to ten
working days of the approval or denial of the submitted application. Permits
shall be returned by mail only when the permittee provides the proper postage
and envelopes.
   (C)   Emergency encroachment permit application. In the event that public
safety is a concern after normal business hours, the city may grant an
emergency permit. Emergency encroachment permits are to be in written form.
Permit must be filled out on site by a city representative for permittee to be
valid. No facsimile forms are accepted. All standard encroachment permit fees
apply. The emergency permit will become void 24 hours from the time indicated
by the city representative on the permit.
   (D)   Additional permits. The permittee is responsible for obtaining all the
necessary permits prior to the approval of the encroachment application;
including, but not limited to the following:
      (1)   City of Westfield permits;
      (2)   Hamilton County permits;
      (3)   Indiana Department of Transportation permits;
      (4)   Department of Natural Resource permits;
      (5)   Indiana Department of Environmental Management; and
      (6)   Federal permits through the Army Corps of Engineers.
   (E)   Notification of residents. The permittee shall be responsible for the
proof of proper notification of all residents affected by the proposed
encroachment, as determined by the city. A copy of the letters shall be
provided to the Public Works Department to become part of the encroachment
permit documentation.
   (F)   Traffic control. Traffic control shall be required for all
encroachments that restrict the natural flow of traffic. All temporary traffic
control measures shall conform to the latest addition of the Indiana Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Unless otherwise provided, the street shall be
kept open to all traffic while undergoing improvements. Where so provided on
maintenance of traffic plan, approved by the Director, traffic may be bypassed
over a detour route. The detour route markings shall be erected, maintained,
and removed by the contractor. The portion of street being used by public
traffic shall be kept in such conditions that such traffic will be adequately
accommodated. Flashing type II barricades or drums in accordance with INDOT
Specification 801.09, shall be placed at 100-foot intervals where drop-offs of
greater than three inches are adjacent to the shoulder until the aggregate or
earth wedge is placed. In areas allowing on-street parking, a distance of 50
feet to 25 feet may be requested.
   (G)   Encroachment start procedures. The Public Works Department shall
require notification prior to the start of any encroachment. In accordance to
I.C. 8-1-26, an I.U.P.P.S. authorization number must be received a minimum of
72 hours prior to any encroachment in the right-of-way. Failure of notification
prior to the start of the encroachment shall result in a $100 fine. If the
encroachment duration is more than five working days, written weekly updates
shall be provided to the Director and/or his or her designee and daily
notification shall be required at the discretion of the Director. A copy of the
approved encroachment permit shall be required to be on site at all times.
   (H)   Permit life.
      (1)   Encroachment start dates shall be provided on the encroachment
permit application. If encroachment does not commence within 45 working days of
the permit approval date, the permit shall be considered void and the
encroachment application shall be resubmitted for approval consideration. All
work must be completed within 60 working days of the application approval date.
Exceptions shall be noted on the permit application and shall be authorized by
the city only.
      (2)   Completion dates and times on all open cuts will be noted by city
inspectors on-site at the time of final inspection of the permit. (See division
(L) below.)
   (I)   Permit cancellation procedures. Cancellation of any scheduled
inspections is required prior to inspection. Failure of prior notice will
result in a penalty fee of $100 per inspection.
   (J)   Temporary and permanent patches. Maintenance periods will begin with
the final inspection date approved by the Director and/or his or her
representative. All open cuts in streets and alleys shall have permanent
patches in place no later than 20 working days of the temporary patch
inspection date, or within the permit life whichever comes first. Winter cut
procedures will be determined by the Director and/or his or her representative
for each individual permit application. Temporary construction patches shall be
maintained to the satisfaction of the Director until permanent patches are
complete. Bricks shall be replaced with original bricks removed from patches.
Concrete and sod areas are to be restored to equal, if not better condition
within the 20-working-day completion period. All patches listed in §
152.47 shall be maintained by the permit application holder for a period of one
year. All temporary patch methods are to be determined by the Director or his
or her representative.
   (K)   INDOT encroachment permits. The city may request to review all Indiana
Department of Transportation encroachment permits obtained for work within the
city’s corporate limits.
   (L)   Inspections. All encroachment permits defined in §
152.49 shall be inspected by the city before, during, or after encroachments.
(Prior Code, § 54-96) (Ord. 03-04, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 152.51 ENCROACHMENT PERMIT INSURANCE AND BONDING.
   The permittee shall be required to submit proof of insurance for general
liability. The Public Works Department, Director and/or his or her
representative may require the permittee to post a $10,000 bond in favor of the
city. Single-family dwelling driveways and encroachments as defined in §
152.49(B) shall be exempt from the bonding requirements. The minimum insurance
requirement shall be $1,000,000 per occurrence, $300,000 per person and $50,000
for legal unless an exemption is requested through the Public Works Department,
Director and/or his or her representative.
(Prior Code, § 54-97) (Ord. 03-04, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 152.52 ENCROACHMENT DETAILS.
   All asphalt encroachments shall conform to latest version of the city’s
Utility and Infrastructure Construction Standards, upon the completion, unless
instructed otherwise and approved by the city.
(Prior Code, § 54-98) (Ord. 03-04, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 152.53 ENCROACHMENT PERMIT FEES AND PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   A separate encroachment permit application shall be required for each
individual right-of-way cut or encroachment. Each standard application in §
152.49(A) and (C) shall require a minimum $50 fee to be paid upon the receipt
of the approved encroachment permit. Exceptions are encroachments as defined in
§
152.49(A)(8) shall require an additional fee of $0.10 per foot if extended over
100 feet. Encroachments defined in §
152.49(B) are valid for 30 days and require a $25 fee. Encroachments as defined
in §
152.49 may require review of construction plans by the city.
   (B)   Special provision encroachment fees as stated in §
152.49(D) are as follows. These fees are in addition to the standard
encroachment fees.
      (1)   Pavement resurfaced within 12 months of encroachment applications
shall require a $300 fee. This fee is to be paid upon the receipt of the
approved encroachment application.
      (2)   Pavement resurfaced within 24 months of encroachment application
shall require a $200 fee. This fee is to be paid upon receipt of the approved
encroachment application.
      (3)   Pavement resurfaced within 36 months of encroachment application
shall require a $100 fee. This fee is to be paid upon receipt of the approved
encroachment application.
      (4)   Any brick streets, alleys, sidewalks or any other brick surface
within the right-of-way controlled by the city. A fee of $100 shall be required
upon receipt of the approved encroachment application.
      (5)   The city holds all options to invoke special fees per the approval
of the Public Works Department when applicable for encroachments not covered
within these standards.
   (C)   The Public Works Department shall have exclusive authority to grant a
street cut request on all primary and secondary arterials as determined by the
Hamilton County Thoroughfare Plan. The street cut methods shall conform to the
related details of this chapter and the latest version of the city’s Utility
and Infrastructure Construction Standards.
   (D)   (1)   Street cuts requiring authorization by the Public Works
Department, shall be a minimum one and one-half-inch mill and overlay for the
entire effected street surface for streets paved within three years of the
encroachment permit application date as listed under §
152.49(D).
      (2)   Open street cuts parallel, diagonal or perpendicular to the travel
lanes shall require a full pavement width mill and overlay. The required
resurfaced area shall extend a minimum of ten feet beyond each of the saw cut
edges, as determined by the Director and/or his or her representative.
   (E)   The Director shall require the implementation of special methods of
street cuts from November 1 through April 30 to ensure temporary street cut
patches do not interfere with the normal operation of the Public Works
Department or other city services.
(Prior Code, § 54-99) (Ord. 03-04, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of the submitted construction routing plan, as required
by §
152.01, by any party involved in the construction project for which the plan
has been submitted, may result in a fine of $200 for the first offense, $1,000
for the second offense, and a maximum of $7,500 for a subsequent offense, plus
any damages, costs and expenses incurred in prosecuting the civil infraction,
to be charged against the party submitting the construction routing plan. Each
day such violation occurs or continues shall be deemed a separate offense and
shall make the violator liable for the imposition of a fine for each
occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 54-1)
   (C)   Any person who shall be in violation of §
152.15 or any amendment thereto shall be punished as provided in §
10.99; and further, each day an entry or cut made into, or onto, any street,
alley or other public way within the city without the issuance of a proper
permit under this chapter shall constitute a separate offense and each separate
offense shall subject the violator to a separate judgment, as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 54-33)
   (D)   (1)   Any person, firm, corporation, or any other entity who shall be
in violation of §§
152.47 through
152.52, or any amendment thereto, shall receive a fine of not more than $500.
Each day an entry or cut is made without the issuance of a proper permit under
this chapter shall constitute a separate offense, and each separate offense
shall subject the violator to a separate fine as provided herein.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation, or any other entity who shall be
in violation of §
152.53(B)(1) through (B)(5), shall be subject to a fine twice that of the
original encroachment application fee. Each day an entry or cut is without the
issuance of a proper permit under this chapter shall constitute a separate
offense, and each separate offense shall subject the violator to a separate
fine as provided herein.
      (3)   Any agency whose approval is required under this chapter or any
interested person may seek an injunction against any person who violates or
threatens to violate any provision of this chapter.
      (4)   In accordance to any other sanction under this chapter, a person
who fails to install or to maintain the approved public improvements in
accordance with the approved construction plan shall be liable to the city in a
civil action, for damages in an amount equal to the cost of installing or
maintaining the controls, all engineering fees, court costs, litigation
expenses, and attorneys fees incurred by the city.
      (5)   Any persons, firm, corporation, or any other entity who fails to
secure any service that can cause damage to property or health due to its
failure, shall receive a $500 penalty for every 24-hour period that corrections
are not made. The 24-hour period will start from the time the damaged service
is reported. This application should fall under §
152.50(B) on procedures and time frames.
      (6)   Any governing authority that recovers damages in accordance with
this division (D) shall deposit them in a special fund, to be used solely for:
         (a)   Correcting, to the extent possible, the failure to install or
maintain the public improvements according to the approved plans and
specifications;
         (b)   Correcting, to the extent possible, the failure to follow the
procedures outlined under permits issued in accordance with this chapter; and
         (c)   The administration of the construction inspection as per this
chapter.
      (7)   The city shall hold the right to secure and/or complete without
prior notification to the applicant any and all permit cuts found to be public
safety concerns. Costs incurred by the city, any and all actions taken by the
city shall be reimbursed by the applicant/applicant as reflected in Attachment
A4 of the ordinance from which §§
152.45 through
152.53 derives.
      (8)   Failure to complete permanent patches within the 20-working-day
requirement may result in a fine of $100 per day, up to five working days. In
the event the repairs are not made in this time period, the city may repair the
patches as defined in division (D)(7) above, including all fines.
(Prior Code, § 54-100)
(Ord. 03-04, passed 2-10-2003; Ord. 06-33, passed 8-14-2006)
CHAPTER 153: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Section
   
153.01   Adoption
§ 153.01 ADOPTION.
   With its passage as Ordinance 14-26 on September 8, 2014, the Westfield-
Washington Township Unified Development Ordinance as amended, is hereby adopted
by reference as if fully set forth herein. An electronic copy of the complete,
updated unified development ordinance is available for review on the city’s
website at: https://www.westfield.in.gov/UDO.
(Ord. 14-26, passed 9-8-2014; Ord. 15-13, passed 6-8-2015; Ord. 17-10, passed
5-8-2017; Ord. 22-35, passed 5-8-2023; Ord. 24-15, passed 3-11-2024; Ord. 24-
47, passed 12-9-2024; Ord. 25-22, passed 5-12-2025)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   VACATIONS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   REZONINGS
      
IV.   AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: VACATIONS
   Ord. No.   Date Passed   Description
09-13   9-14-2009   Vacation of public roadway.
10-29   12-27-2010   Vacating a public way, easement and platted real property
in Custom Commerce Park Subdivision.
11-11   7-11-2011   Vacating an alleyway in Able Doan’s Addition.
11-21   10-24-2011   Vacation of an easement.
14-01   2-24-2014   Vacating a public way in the 32 at 31 Henke Center
Subdivision.
18-26   6-12-2018   Vacation of public ways being a part of Block A of Grassy
Branch Commercial Subdivision per the plat thereof recorded in Plat Cabinet 5,
Slide 342 as Instrument Number 2015020517.
20-17   6-8-2020   Vacating a part of the northwest quarter of Section 12,
Township 18 North, Range 3 East, of the Second Principal Meridian, in
Washington Township, containing 0.482 acres, more or less.
22-24   6-13-2022   The following public right-of-way is hereby vacated: a
portion of Meadows Drive, in Style-Rite Meadows, as per secondary plat thereof
recorded in Plat Book 7 Pages 23 through 25.
22-51   11-28-2022   Vacation of a public right-of-way.
22-63   1-9-2023   Vacating a public right-of-way containing 1.012 acres more
or less.
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
   Ord. No.   Date Passed   Description
05-09   9-23-2005   Annexing an area from U.S. 31 west to Eagle Creek Road and
north from 146th Street to SR 32.
07-22   3-13-2008   Annexation along SR 32 north side and U.S. 31 north of SR
32 on west side.
11-15   8-8-2011   Annexing an area located between 191st Street (north), 181st
Street (south), Tomlinson Road (east) and Springmill Road (west).
11-18   9-26-2011   Annexation of certain contiguous lands, generally located
at the southwest corner of State Highway 32 and Carey Road.
12-27   9-10-2012   Annexing a portion of the Springmill Trails Planned Unit
Development.
13-04   1-14-2013   Annexing an area located on the southwest corner of 186th
Street and Kinsey Avenue and the area north of 191st Street and west of
Tomlinson Road.
13-05   2-11-2013   Annexing an area located on the southeast corner of 151st
Street and Setters Road.
13-21   8-12-2013   Annexing an area located adjacent to the existing corporate
limits, south of 186th Street and west of Springmill Road.
14-04   2-24-2014   Annexing an area generally located adjacent to the existing
corporate limits, north of 159th Street and west of Little Eagle Creek Avenue.
14-05   2-24-2014   Annexing an area, generally located on the east side of
Spring Mill Road, south of the 186th Street and Spring Mill Road intersection,
and adjacent to the existing corporate limits along the eastern boundary of the
annexation area.
14-10   4-14-2014   Annexing an area, generally located on the southwest corner
of Cox Avenue and Tomlinson Road, and on the north side of Cox Avenue, and
adjacent to the existing corporate limits along the southern boundary of the
annexation area.
15-09   5-26-2015   Annexing an area, generally located on the west side of
Tomlinson Road, south of 199th Street, and adjacent to the existing corporate
limits along the eastern boundaries of the annexation area.
   15-17   7-13-2015   Annexing an area, generally located on the west side of
Tomlinson Road, south of 199th Street, and adjacent to the existing corporate
limits along the eastern boundaries of the annexation area.
16-02   3-11-2016   Annexing an area, generally located south of 206th Street
and east of Oak Ridge Road, and adjacent to the existing corporate limits along
the northern and eastern boundaries of the annexation area.
16-01   4-11-2016   Annexing an area, generally located north of 199th Street
and east of Oak Ridge Road, and adjacent to the existing corporate limits along
the northern and eastern boundaries of the annexation area.
16-03   4-11-2016   Annexing an area, generally located on the south side of
206th Street and east of Oak Ridge Road, and adjacent to the existing corporate
limits along the southern boundary of the annexation area.
16-49   1-9-2017   Annexing an area, generally located on the east side of Oak
Ridge Road and north of 206th Street, and adjacent to the existing corporate
limits along the eastern boundary of the annexation area.
17-01   3-13-2017   Annexing an area, generally located on the southwest corner
of U.S. 31 and SR 38, and adjacent to the existing corporate limits along the
western and southern boundaries of the annexation area.
17-11   5-8-2017   Annexing an area, located at 4442 East 191st Street, and
adjacent to the existing corporate limits along the southern boundary of the
annexation area.
17-15   6-12-2017   Annexing an area, generally located on the west side of
Moontown Road between 191st Street and 196th Street, and adjacent to the
existing corporate limits along portions of the eastern, southern and western
boundaries of the annexation area.
17-27   10-9-2017   Annexing an area, generally located south of SR 38 between
U.S. 31 and Oak Ridge Road, and adjacent to the existing corporate limits along
the eastern and southern boundaries of the annexation area.
18-10   6-4-2018   Annexing an area, generally located at the northwest corner
of 191st Street and Horton Road, and adjacent to the existing corporate limits
along the southern boundary of the annexation area.
18-14   7-9-2018   Annexing an area, generally located at the Northwest Corner
of 193rd Street and Spring Mill Road, and adjacent to the existing corporate
limits along the eastern boundary of the annexation area.
18-22   7-9-2018   Annexing an area, generally located at 423 East South Street
and adjacent to the existing corporate limits along the northern and southern
boundaries of the annexation area.
18-30   9-10-2018   Annexing an area, generally located northeast of the
intersection of 193rd Street and Six Points Road, and adjacent to the existing
corporate limits along the southern boundary of the annexation area.
18-41   11-12-2018   Annexing an area, generally located southeast of the
intersection of State Highway 38 and Grassy Branch Road, and adjacent to the
existing corporate limits along the western boundary of the annexation area.
18-47   11-12-2018   Annexing an area, generally located northwest of the
intersection of 196th Street and Grassy Branch Road, and adjacent to the
existing corporate limits along the northern boundary of the annexation area.
19-01   2- -2019   Annexing an area, generally located at the southeast corner
of 196th Street and Grassy Branch Road, and adjacent to the existing corporate
limits along the eastern boundary of the annexation area.
19-07   4-9-2019   Annexing an area, generally located at the southeast corner
193rd Street and Casey Road, and adjacent to the existing corporate limits
along the southern boundary of the annexation area.
19-55   11-11-2019   Annexing an area, generally located at the southeast
corner 203rd Street along Tomlinson Road, and adjacent to the existing
corporate limits along the southern, eastern and western boundary of the
annexation area.
20-04   3-9-2020   Annexing an area, generally located at the west side of the
Monon Trail, north of 199th Street, and adjacent to the existing corporate
limits along the eastern boundary of the annexation area.
20-05   3-9-2020   Annexing an area, generally located at the north side of
193rd Street at Casey Road, and adjacent to the existing corporate limits along
the southern boundary of the annexation area.
20-06   3-9-2020   Annexing an area, generally located at the east side of Six
Points Road north of 193rd Street, and adjacent to the existing corporate
limits along the southern boundary of the annexation area.
20-07   3-9-2020   Annexing an area, generally located on the north side of
186th Street west of Spring Mill Road, and adjacent to the existing corporate
limits along portions of the annexation area.
20-10   4-13-2020   Annexing an area, generally located on the north side of
193rd Street at Casey Road, and adjacent to the existing corporate limits along
the southern boundary of the annexation area.
20-11   4-13-2020   Annexing an area, generally located on the east side of
Horton Road north of 199th Street, and adjacent to the existing corporate
limits along portions of the eastern and northern boundaries of the annexation
area.
20-12   4-13-2020   Annexing an area, generally located on west of Horton Road
north of 199th Street, and adjacent to the existing corporate limits along a
portion of the western boundary of the annexation area.
20-15   6-8-2020   Annexing an area, generally located on the west side of
Horton Road south of 206th Street, and adjacent to the existing corporate
limits along a portion of the eastern boundary of the annexation area.
20-16   6-8-2020   Annexing an area, generally located on the east side of
Horton Road and the north side of 199th Street, and adjacent to the existing
corporate limits along the northern boundary of the annexation area.
20-20   7-13-2020   Annexing an area, generally located on the west side of
Horton Road south of 206th Street, and adjacent to the existing corporate
limits along a portion of the eastern boundary of the annexation area.
20-24   8-10-2020   Annexing an area, located at 18326 and 18342 Spring Mill
Road, and adjacent to the existing corporate limits along portions of all
boundaries of the annexation area.
20-33   10-12-2020   Annexing an area, generally located on the east side of
Six Points Road north of 193rd Street, and adjacent to the existing corporate
limits along the northern, eastern, southern and a portion of the western
boundaries of the annexation area.
21-13   4-12-2021   Annexing an area, generally located at the southwest corner
of 186th Street and Shady Nook Road, and adjacent to the existing corporate
limits along the southern, eastern and western boundaries of the annexation
area.
21-18   5-10-2021   Annexing an area, located at 2429 East 202nd Street, and
adjacent to the existing corporate limits along the eastern, southern and
western boundaries of the annexation area.
21-19   5-10-2021   Annexing an area, generally located at the northwest corner
of 186th Street and Shady Nook Road, and adjacent to the existing corporate
limits along the eastern, and a portion of the southern boundaries of the
annexation area.
21-20   5-10-2021   Annexing an area, generally located at the northwest corner
of 199th Street and Horton Road, and adjacent to the existing corporate limits
along western, northern and a portion of the eastern boundaries of the
annexation area.
21-36   8-23-2021   Annexing an area, generally located on the south side of
State Road 32, one-fourth mile east of Gray Road, and adjacent to the existing
corporate limits along the northern, western and southern boundaries of the
annexation area.
21-54   1-10-2022   Annexing an area, located at 1602 East 203rd Street, and
adjacent to the existing corporate limits along the northern, western and
southern boundaries of the annexation area.
22-03   3-14-2022   Annexing an area, generally located at the northwest corner
of U.S. 31 and SR 38, and adjacent to the existing corporate limits along the
southern boundary of the annexation area.
22-04   4-11-2022   Annexing an area, generally located at the southeast comer
of 203rd Street and Tomlinson Road, and adjacent to the existing corporate
limits along the western, southern and a portion of the eastern boundaries of
the annexation area.
22-12   5-9-2022   Annexing an area, generally located on the west side of the
Monon Trail approximately 2,000 feet north of 191st Street, and adjacent to the
existing corporate limits along the southern, and a portion of the eastern
boundary of the annexation area.
22-13   5-9-2022   Annexing an area, generally located at 612 East 191st
Street, and adjacent to the existing corporate limits along the southern and
eastern boundaries of the annexation area.
22-42   11-28-2022   Annexing an area, generally located on the south side of
West 193rd Street, east of Six Points Road, and adjacent to the existing
corporate limits along the entirety of the western boundary of the annexation
area.
22-59   1-9-2023   Annexing an area, generally located on the north side of
181st Street, east of the Grand Park Boulevard, extension, and adjacent to the
existing corporate limits along all boundaries of the annexation area.
22-60   1-9-2023   Annexing an area, generally located on the north side of
191st Street, about 1,800 feet west of the Monon Trail, and adjacent to the
existing corporate limits along all boundaries of the annexation area.
TABLE III: REZONINGS
   Ord. No.   Date Passed   Description
11-03   2-14-2011   Reclassifying the real estate described in what is attached
hereto and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit A from SF-5 to GB.
TABLE IV: AGREEMENTS
   Ord. No.   Date Passed   Description
13-28   10-15-2013   Approving stipulation and settlement agreement regarding
the sale of the Westfield water and sewer utilities.
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Code Section Code Section
I.C. Code Section               Code Section
1-1-1-5(f)                      10.15
1-1-1-5(g)                      10.04
1-1-1-5(h)                      10.02
1-1-1-6                         10.07
1-1-1-8                         10.16
1-1-4-1(3)                      10.02
1-1-4-1(4)                      10.02
1-1-4-5(9)                      10.02
1-1-4-5(13)                     10.02
1-1-4-5(14)                     10.02
1-1-4-5(15)                     10.02
1-1-4-5(17)                     10.02
1-1-4-5(18)                     10.02
1-1-4-5(20)                     10.02
1-1-4-5(25)                     10.02
1-1-4-5(26)                     10.02
1-1-5-1                         10.12
3-8-1-29                        31.03
3-8-2-4                         31.04
3-8-5                           31.04
3-10-6                          31.01
3-10-7                          31.01
3-10-7-1 et seq.                36.01
3-13-9                          31.05
4-21.5-3                        34.050
4-21.5-3-6                      34.043
4-21.5-3-22                     55.06
5-3-1                           33.035;
                                35.34
5-3-1-2(b)                      33.142
5-4-1-18                        37.004
5-4-1-18(a)(7)                  37.004
5-4-1-18(b)                     37.004
5-4-1-18(d)                     37.004
5-4-1-18(k)                     37.004
5-4-1-18(l)                     37.004
5-10.3-1 et seq.                32.04
5-11-10-1.6                     37.033
5-13-9                          37.130
5-13-9-1 et seq.                37.091
5-13-9-2                        37.130
5-13-9-2.5                      37.130
5-13-9-5                        37.129
5-13-9-5.6                      37.131
5-13-9-5.7                      37.131
5-13-9-11                       37.130
5-14-1.5-6.1(b)(2)(B)           37.078
5-14-3                          114.06
5-14-3-2(d)                     39.065
5-14-3-2(k)                     39.065
5-14-3-3                        30.05
5-14-3-8                        39.065
5-16-9-1 et seq.                72.21
5-16-9-10                       72.21
5-22-2-26                       30.20
5-22-8 et seq.                  30.21;
                                30.22
6-9-35-13                       37.003
7.1-3-1-14                      110.54
7.1-3-9-3                       110.01
7.1-3-19 et seq.                110.15
7.1-3-20-16.8                   110.15
                                110.30;
                                110.38;
                                110.41;
7.1-3-31 et seq.                110.43;
                                110.50;
                                110.58;
                                110.61;
                                110.63
7.1-3-31-8                      110.31;
                                110.51
7.1-3-31-9(b)                   110.36;
                                110.56
7.1-3-31-15                     110.39;
                                110.59
7.1-3-31-16                     110.35;
                                110.55
8-1-26                          152.50
8-1-34-11                       114.08
8-1-34-24                       114.08
8-1.5-1 et seq.                 51.01
8-1.5-1-1 et seq.               Ch. 50
8-1.5-3-11                      38.075
8-1.5-4-7                       51.02
8-1.5-4-8                       51.02
                                75.01;
9-13-2-1                        75.02;
                                75.03
9-13-2-17                       117.01
9-13-2-94.5                     74.02
9-13-2-167                      10.02
9-13-2-175                      10.02
9-13-2-184                      71.38
9-18.5 et seq.                  72.21
9-20-1 et seq.                  71.37
9-20-1-3                        71.37
9-21-1 et seq.                  Ch. 70
9-21-1-3.3                      74.01;
                                74.99
9-21-5                          71.20
9-21-16                         Ch. 72
9-21-16-3 et seq.               75.04
9-22-1                          Ch. 75
                                75.01;
9-22-1 et seq.                  75.02;
                                75.03
9-22-1-13 et seq.               75.03
9-22-1-30 et seq.               75.03
9-22-1-31                       75.02
9-24-1-7(b)                     74.04
9-24-8.5-5 et seq.              117.10
9-25-2-3                        74.04
9-25-4-1 et seq.                Ch. 117
9-25-4-5                        117.05
9-26-1 et seq.                  38.015
9-26-9-3                        39.065
10-8-1 et seq.                  33.020
10-14-3                         33.020
13-1-1-7                        91.12
13-7-8.5-4                      71.36
13-11-2-98                      71.35
13-11-2-99                      71.35
14-21-1-19                      33.131
15-20-1-3 et seq.               90.26
16-31-3                         35.46
16-41-20                        150.30
16-41-20 et seq.                91.10
16-41-34-7                      91.10
22-11-14-1                      115.01
22-11-14-2                      115.04
22-11-14-6(d)                   34.195
22-11-14-8(a)                   115.01
22-11-14-10.5                   34.195
22-11-18-3                      34.135
22-11-18-3.5                    34.041;
                                34.135
22-11-18-5                      34.135
22-12-1-3                       150.36
22-12-1-4                       34.008;
                                115.01
22-12-1-5                       34.008
22-12-1-18                      34.008
22-12-2                         34.008
22-12-7                         34.003
22-13-2-7(c)                    34.049
22-13-2-11                      34.003
22-14                           34.044
24-4-19-14                      113.05
24-4-19-15                      113.05
25-25-2-1                       112.05
25-37.5-1-2                     113.05
33-37-8 et seq.                 40.06
34-28-5 et seq.                 116.99
                                70.99;
34-28-5-4                       72.99;
                                91.99;
                                92.99
35-43-5-4                       Ch. 114
35-46-3-0.5(6)                  90.02
35-46-3-12                      90.99
35-47-1-5                       130.01
35-47-2-3                       38.001;
                                39.065
35-47-2-4                       39.065
36-1-3-1 et seq.                Ch. 30
36-1-3-6                        38.150
36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B)              10.99
36-1-3-9                        10.02
36-1-5-3                        10.01
36-1-6-2                        91.11
36-1-8-18                       39.018
36-1-9-11                       33.020
36-1-9-16                       33.020
36-1-12                         51.05
36-1-12-9                       33.020
36-4-1 et seq.                  Ch. 30
36-4-1-1.1                      30.01
36-4-1-10.1                     36.01
36-4-2-1 et seq.                Ch. 31
36-4-2-3                        31.02
36-4-2-4.1                      36.01
36-4-2-4.2                      31.09
36-4-2-5                        31.01;
                                36.01
36-4-2-6                        31.03
36-4-2-7                        31.06
36-4-2-9.2                      31.07
36-4-2-9.6                      31.08
36-4-2-9.8                      31.09
36-4-2-10                       31.11
36-4-3-2                        Ch. 32
36-4-3-4                        30.02
36-4-4-2                        37.030
36-4-4-3                        37.031
36-4-4-6                        37.033
36-4-4-11                       111.07
36-4-4-12                       37.032;
                                37.033
36-4-6                          Ch. 32
36-4-6-2                        32.35
36-4-6-3                        30.01;
                                32.36
36-4-6-4                        32.37;
                                36.01
36-4-6-6                        32.38
36-4-6-7                        32.38
36-4-6-8(b)                     31.10
36-4-6-14                       38.094
36-4-7-1 et seq.                35.01
36-4-9-2                        93.26
36-4-9-7                        32.50
36-4-10-4.5                     37.128
36-7                            31.09
36-7-1-1 et seq.                33.035
36-7-2-6                        152.15
36-7-4                          33.001;
                                33.144
36-7-4-500 et seq.              39.042
36-7-4-1012                     91.01
36-7-4-1300 through 36-7-4-1342 39.015;
                                39.051
36-7-4-1307                     39.041
36-7-4-1310                     39.017
36-7-4-1313                     39.043
36-7-4-1316                     39.018;
                                39.041
36-7-4-1317                     39.049
36-7-4-1318                     39.019;
                                39.042
36-7-4-1320                     39.028;
                                39.047
36-7-4-1321                     39.028;
                                39.047
36-7-4-1322                     39.028;
                                39.047
36-7-4-1322(g)                  39.018;
                                39.041
36-7-4-1323                     39.044
36-7-4-1324                     39.022;
                                39.044
36-7-4-1325                     39.024;
                                39.045
36-7-4-1329                     39.029;
                                39.048
36-7-4-1330                     39.049
36-7-4-1332                     39.027
36-7-4-1332(e)                  39.048
36-7-4-1335                     39.043
36-7-4-1335(a)                  39.023
36-7-4-1335(e)                  39.023
36-7-4-1338                     39.026;
                                39.050
36-7-4-1338(c)                  39.026
36-7-4-1340                     39.040
36-7-9                          150.15;
                                150.31
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28      150.32
36-7-9-2                        150.30
36-7-9-3                        150.15
36-7-9-4                        150.35
                                33.050;
36-7-12                         33.053;
                                33.056
36-7-12-4                       33.050
36-7-12-6(b)                    33.051
36-7-12-6(c)                    33.052
36-7-12-9(b)                    33.052
36-7-12-10(b)                   33.052
36-7-12-27.5                    33.055
36-7-13                         37.015
36-7-14                         33.071
36-7-14-3(a)                    33.070
36-7-14-3(b)                    33.071
36-7-14-3(c)                    33.071
36-7-14-6.1                     33.072
36-7-14-7                       33.073
36-7-14-8                       33.073
36-7-14-11                      33.073
36-7-14.5-1 et seq.             33.085
36-7.6-2-1                      33.100
36-7.7 et seq.                  33.100
36-8-2-4                        91.10;
                                152.15
36-8-2-8                        91.10
36-8-2-13                       152.15
36-8-3.2-3.5                    35.38
36-8-3.2-6                      35.38
36-8-3.5 et seq.                35.30
36-8-3.5-0.2                    35.30
36-8-3.5-0.5                    35.30
36-8-3.5-6                      35.31;
                                35.32
36-8-3.5-7                      35.33
36-8-3.5-8                      35.35
36-8-3.5-9                      35.34
36-8-3.5-10                     35.34
36-8-3.5-10(b) - (e)            35.34
36-8-3.5-11                     35.36;
                                35.40
36-8-3.5-12                     35.37—
                                35.39
36-8-3.5-13                     35.41
36-8-3.5-14                     35.41
36-8-3.5-15                     35.41
36-8-3.5-16                     35.41
36-8-3.5-17                     35.42
36-8-3.5-18                     35.42
36-8-3.5-19                     35.43
36-8-3.5-19.3                   35.46
36-8-3.5-20                     35.44
36-8-3.5-21                     35.45
36-8-3-20                       35.15
36-8-4-6.5                      35.40
36-8-5-1 et seq.                35.01
36-8-8-1 et seq.                35.01
36-8-8-19                       35.38
                                34.041;
36-8-17                         34.047;
                                34.048
36-8-17-7                       34.025
36-8-17-8                       34.027
                                34.043;
36-8-17-9                       34.044;
                                34.051
36-9-2                          Ch. 50
36-9-2-4                        Ch. 117
36-9-2-5 et seq.                152.01
36-9-2-14                       Ch. 51;
                                51.01
36-9-2-16                       Ch. 53
36-9-15.5                       38.060
36-9-15.5 et seq.               38.031
36-9-15.5-2                     38.031;
                                38.060
36-9-15.5-6                     38.060
36-9-16                         38.030;
                                38.032
36-9-16-2                       38.030
36-9-16-3                       38.030
36-9-23                         55.10
36-9-23-1 et seq.               Ch. 50;
                                Ch. 53
36-9-23-24 et seq.              37.045
36-9-23-30                      37.046
36-9-23-31                      55.08
36-9-23-32                      55.08
36-9-23-33                      55.08
36-9-23-34                      55.08
36-9-36 et seq.                 152.01
36-10-3 et seq.                 93.25;
                                93.28
36-10-3-13(d)                   93.26
36-10-3-22                      38.045
                                
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
1-1                10.01
1-2                10.02
1-3                10.03
1-4                10.04
1-5                10.05
1-6                10.99
1-7                10.06
1-8                10.07
1-9                10.08
1-10               10.09
1-11               10.10
1-12               10.11
1-13               10.12
1-14               10.13
1-15               10.14
1-16               10.15
1-17               10.16
1-18               10.17
1-19               10.18
2-1                30.02
2-3                30.03
2-31               31.01
2-32               31.02
2-33               31.03
2-34               31.04
2-35               31.05
2-36               31.06
2-37               31.07
2-38               31.08
2-39               31.09
2-40               31.10
2-41               31.11
2-42               31.12
2-101              32.01
2-102              32.02
2-103              32.03
2-136              32.35
2-137              32.36
2-138              32.37
2-139              32.38
2-171              33.001
2-172              33.002
2-173              33.003
2-174              33.004
2-206              37.001
2-207              37.002
2-236              37.015
2-237              37.016
2-266              37.030
2-267              37.031
2-268              37.032
2-269              37.033
2-301              38.001
2-302              38.002
2-303              38.003
2-336              38.015
2-337              38.016
2-338              38.017
2-371              38.030
2-372              38.031
2-373              38.032
2-381              38.045
2-406              38.060
2-421              38.075
2-422              38.076
2-423              38.077
2-424              38.078
2-425              38.079
2-436              37.045
2-437              37.046
2-438              37.047
2-439              37.048
2-440              37.049
2-446              38.090
2-447              38.091
2-448              38.092
2-449              38.093
2-450              38.094
2-451              38.105
2-452              38.106
2-453              38.107
2-454              38.108
2-461              38.120
2-462              38.121
2-463              38.122
2-464              38.123
2-481              38.135
2-482              38.136
2-483              38.137
2-484              38.138
2-506              38.150
2-507              38.151
2-508              38.152
2-509              40.01
2-510              40.02
2-511              40.03
2-512              40.04
2-513              40.05
2-514              40.06
2-531              37.090
2-532              37.091
2-533              37.092
2-534              37.093
2-535              37.094
2-536              37.095
2-537              37.096
2-538              37.097
2-539              37.098
2-551              38.165
2-561              37.110
2-601              11.01
2-602              11.02
6-51               110.01
6-71               110.15
10-1               90.01
10-2               90.02
10-3               90.03;
                   90.99
10-4               90.04;
                   90.99
10-5               90.05;
                   90.99
10-6               90.06
10-7               90.07;
                   90.99
10-8               90.08;
                   90.99
10-9               90.09;
                   90.99
10-10              90.10;
                   90.99
10-11              90.11;
                   90.99
10-12              90.12;
                   90.99
10-13              90.13;
                   90.99
10-14              90.14;
                   90.99
10-15              90.15;
                   90.99
10-16              90.16
10-17              90.17;
                   90.99
10-18              90.18
10-19              90.19
10-20              90.20;
                   90.99
10-21              90.21;
                   90.99
10-22              90.22;
                   90.99
10-23              90.23;
                   90.99
10-24              90.24;
                   90.99
10-25              90.25;
                   90.99
10-26              90.26;
                   90.99
10-27              90.27;
                   90.99
10-28              90.28
14-31              150.01
14-61              150.15
14-91              150.30
14-92              150.31
14-93              150.32
14-94              150.33
14-95              150.34
14-96              150.35
14-97              150.36
14-98              150.99
14-131             150.50
14-132             150.51
17-31              111.01
17-32              111.02
17-33              111.03
17-34              111.04
17-35              111.05
17-36              111.06
17-37              111.07
17-38              111.08
17-39              111.99
17-40              115.01
17-41              115.02
17-42              115.03
17-43              115.04
17-44              115.05
17-45              115.06
17-46              115.07
17-61              112.01
17-62              112.02
17-63              112.03
17-64              112.04
17-65              112.99
17-81              113.01
17-82              113.02
17-83              113.03
17-84              113.04
17-85              113.05
17-86              113.06
17-87              113.07
17-88              113.08
17-89              113.09
17-90              113.10
17-91              113.11
17-92              113.12
17-93              113.99
18-31              114.01
18-32              114.02
18-33              114.03
18-34              114.04
18-35              114.05
18-36              114.06
18-37              114.07
18-38              114.99
22-31              33.020
22-32              33.021
22-33              33.022
22-34              33.023
26-1               33.035
26-31              38.180
26-32              38.181
26-33              38.182
26-96              33.050
26-97              33.051
26-98              33.052
26-99              33.053
26-100             33.054
26-101             33.055
26-102             33.056
26-131             33.070
26-132             33.071
26-133             33.072
26-134             33.073
26-141             33.085
26-151             33.100
30-1               36.01
34-31              91.01
34-32              91.02
34-33              91.03
34-34              91.04
34-35              91.05
34-36              91.06
34-37              91.07
34-38              91.08
34-39              91.09
34-40              91.10
34-41              91.11
34-42              91.12
34-43              91.99
34-44              91.13
34-51              91.25
34-52              91.26
34-53              91.99
34-54              91.99
34-61              92.01
34-62              92.02
34-63              92.03
34-64              92.04
34-65              92.05
34-66              92.06
34-67              92.07
34-68              92.08
34-69              92.99
34-91              91.40
34-92              91.41
34-93              91.42
34-94              91.43
34-95              91.44
34-96              91.45
34-97              91.46
34-98              91.47
34-99              91.48
34-100             91.99
34-111             151.01
34-112             151.02
34-113             151.03
34-114             151.04
34-115             151.05;
                   151.99
34-116             151.06
34-117             151.07
34-118             151.08
34-141             92.20
34-142             92.21
34-143             92.22
34-144             92.23
34-145             92.24
34-146             92.25
34-147             92.26
34-148             92.27
34-149             92.28
38-1               34.001
38-2               34.002
38-3               34.003
38-4               34.004
38-5               34.005
38-6               34.006
38-7               34.007
38-8               34.008
38-21              34.020
38-22              34.021
38-23              34.022
38-24              34.023
38-25              34.024
38-26              34.025
38-27              34.026
38-28              34.027
38-29              34.028
38-41              34.040
38-42              34.041
38-43              34.042
38-44              34.043
38-45              34.044
38-46              34.045
38-47              34.046
38-48              34.047
38-49              34.048
38-50              34.049
38-51              34.050
38-52              34.051
38-53              34.052
38-54              34.053
38-55              34.054
38-71              34.065
38-72              34.066
38-73              34.067
38-81              34.080;
                   34.999
38-91              34.095
38-92              34.096
38-93              34.097
38-94              34.098
38-95              34.099
38-96              34.100
38-97              34.101
38-98              34.102
38-99              34.103
38-100             34.104
38-101             34.105
38-102             34.106
38-121             34.120
38-131             34.135
38-141             34.150
38-142             34.151
38-143             34.152
38-151             34.165
38-152             34.166
38-153             34.167
38-161             34.180
38-162             34.181
38-163             34.182
38-171             34.195
38-172             34.196
38-173             34.197
38-174             34.198
38-200             39.001
40-51              39.040
40-52              39.041
40-53              39.042
40-54              39.043
40-55              39.044
40-56              39.045
40-57              39.046
40-58              39.047
40-59              39.048
40-60              39.049
40-61              39.050
40-62              39.051
40-63              39.052
42-1               35.01
42-2               35.02
42-3               39.065
42-31              35.15
42-32              35.16
42-33              35.17
42-34              35.18
42-35              35.19
42-36              35.20
43-1               130.01
43-2               130.02;
                   130.99
43-31              131.01
43-32              131.02
43-33              131.03
43-34              131.04
43-35              131.05
43-36              131.06
43-37              131.07
43-38              131.08
43-39              131.09
43-40              131.10
43-41              131.11
43-42              131.99
43-43              131.12
43-44              131.13
43-45              131.14
44-1               93.01;
                   93.99
44-2               93.02;
                   93.99
44-3               93.03;
                   93.99
44-4               93.04;
                   93.99
44-5               93.05;
                   93.99
44-6               93.06;
                   93.99
44-7               93.07;
                   93.99
44-8               93.08
44-9               93.09
44-10              93.10
44-11              93.11
44-12              39.080
44-13              93.12
44-14              93.13;
                   93.99
44-15              39.081
46-1               116.01
46-2               116.02
46-3               116.03
46-21              116.15
46-22              116.16
46-23              116.17
46-24              116.18
46-25              116.19;
                   116.99
46-26              116.20
46-27              116.21
50-1               32.04
50-31              32.20
50-32              32.21
50-33              32.22
50-34              32.23
50-35              32.24
54-1               152.01;
                   152.99
54-31              152.15
54-32              152.16
54-33              152.99
54-66              152.30
54-91              152.45
54-92              152.46
54-93              152.47
54-94              152.48
54-95              152.49
54-96              152.50
54-97              152.51
54-98              152.52
54-99              152.53
54-100             152.99
58-1(a)            74.01
58-1(b)            74.02;
                   74.03
58-1(c)            74.04
58-1(d)            74.99
58-2               70.09;
                   70.99
58-31              70.01
58-32              70.02
58-33              70.03
58-34              70.04
58-35              70.05
58-36              70.06
58-37              70.07
58-38              70.08
58-71              70.35
58-72              70.36
58-73              70.37
58-74              70.38
58-75              70.39
58-76              70.40
58-77              70.99
58-101             70.20
58-102             70.21
58-121             71.01
58-122             71.02
58-123             71.03
58-124             71.04
58-125             71.05
58-126             71.06
58-146             71.20
58-147             71.21
58-166             73.01
58-167             73.02;
                   73.99
58-191             72.01
58-211             72.15
58-212             72.16
58-213             72.17
58-214             72.18
58-215             72.19;
                   72.99
58-216             72.20;
                   72.99
58-217             72.21
58-241             72.35
58-242             72.36
58-243             72.37
58-244             72.38
58-245             72.39
58-266             72.50
58-267             72.51
58-268             72.52
58-269             72.53
58-270             72.54
58-291             75.01
58-292             75.02
58-293             75.03
58-294             75.04
58-295             75.99
58-316             71.35
58-317             71.36
58-318             71.37
58-319             71.38
58-320             71.39
58-321             71.40
58-322             71.99
58-346             Ch. 76, Sch. I
58-347             Ch. 76, Sch. II
58-348             Ch. 76, Sch. III
58-349             Ch. 76, Sch. IV
58-350             Ch. 76, Sch. V
58-350.1           Ch. 76, Sch. VI
58-351             Ch. 76, Sch. VII
58-352             Ch. 76, Sch. VIII
58-353             Ch. 76, Sch. IX
58-353.1           Ch. 76, Sch. X
58-354             Ch. 77, Sch. I
58-354.1           Ch. 77, Sch. II
58-355             Ch. 77, Sch. III
58-355.1           Ch. 77, Sch. IV
58-355.2           Ch. 77, Sch. V
58-355.3           Ch. 77, Sch. VI
58-356             Ch. 76, Sch. XI
58-357             Ch. 76, Sch. XII
58-363             Ch. 77, Sch. VIII
58-364             Ch. 77, Sch. IX
62-1               50.01
62-2               50.02
62-31              51.01
62-32              51.02
62-33              51.03
62-34              51.04
62-35              51.05
62-36              51.06
62-37              51.07
62-38              51.08
62-39              51.09;
                   51.99
62-40              51.10
62-61              51.25
62-63              52.01
62-64              52.02
62-65              52.03
62-66              52.04
62-67              52.05
62-68              52.06;
                   52.99
62-69              52.07
62-71              53.01
62-91              54.01
62-92              54.02
62-93              54.03
62-94              54.04
62-95              54.05
62-96              54.06
62-97              54.07
62-98              54.08
62-99              54.09
62-100             54.10
62-101             54.11
62-102             54.12
62-103             54.13
62-104             54.14
62-105             54.15
62-106             54.16
62-107             54.17
62-108             54.18
62-109             54.19
62-110             54.20
62-111             54.21
62-112             54.22
62-113             54.23
62-114             54.24
62-115             54.25
62-116             54.99
62-131             55.01
62-132             55.02
62-133             55.03
62-134             55.04
62-135             55.05
62-136             55.06
62-137             55.07
62-138             55.08
62-139             55.09
62-140             55.10
62-151             56.01
62-152             56.02
62-153             56.03
62-154             56.04
62-155             56.05
66-31              117.01
66-32              117.02
66-33              117.03
66-34              117.04
66-35              117.05
66-36              117.06
66-37              117.07
66-38              117.08
66-39              117.09
66-40              117.10
66-41              117.11
66-42              117.12
66-43              117.99
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
21-115   5-26-2021   30.22
21-118   5-26-2021   30.20
21-119   5-26-2021   30.21
23-113   11-13-2023  37.001
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed  Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed  Code Section
94-5       3-14-1994      38.121—
                          38.123
                          38.105—
94-6       4-11-1994      38.108;
                          38.120
94-17      11-14-1994     33.054—
                          33.056
94-18      11-14-1994     31.05;
                          32.03
95-1       1-14-1995      32.20—
                          32.24
96-08      5-13-1996      38.060
96-11      6-10-1996      37.045—
                          37.047
                          70.01—
                          70.08;
                          70.20;
                          70.21;
                          70.35—
                          70.40;
                          70.99;
                          71.01—
                          71.06;
                          71.20;
                          71.21;
                          71.35—
96-21      8-12-1996      71.40;
                          71.99;
                          72.01;
                          72.15—
                          72.21;
                          72.35—
                          72.39;
                          72.50—
                          72.54;
                          72.99;
                          73.01;
                          75.01—
                          75.04;
                          75.99
96-28      10-14-1996     50.01
                          91.01—
                          91.12;
96-30      12-9-1996      91.99;
                          92.01—
                          92.08;
                          92.99
97-1       1-13-1997      37.048
                          70.99;
97-3       1-18-1997      72.20;
                          72.99
97-10      4-14-1997      38.135—
                          38.138
97-13      5-12-1997      37.047
98-17      8-10-1998      72.15
98-18      8-10-1998      91.05
99-01      1-11-1999      38.135—
                          38.138
99-09      9-13-1999      37.047
01-01      4-9-2001       33.035
01-11      8-28-2001      38.150—
                          38.152
                          31.01;
01-12      10-22-2001     31.02;
                          36.01
                          111.01—
01-13      11-12-2001     111.08;
                          111.99
02-19      6-10-2002      32.04
02-20      6-10-2002      73.02;
                          73.99
                          91.25;
02-34      11-11-2002     91.26;
                          91.99
02-36      11-11-2002     51.25
                          152.45—
03-04      2-10-2003      152.53;
                          152.99
03-01      2-11-2003      32.05
03-14      6-9-2003       37.049
03-36      10-13-2003     33.070—
                          33.073
04-32      10-11-2004     50.02
05-19      5-26-2005      91.13
05-21      7-11-2005      37.003
05-09      9-23-2005      TSO II
                          54.01—
05-30      11-14-2005     54.25;
                          54.99
05-33      11-14-2005     50.02
06-02      12-9-2005      33.005
06-22      6-12-2006      35.02
06-23      6-12-2006      130.01
06-31      8-14-2006      51.10
06-33      8-14-2006      152.01;
                          152.99
06-34      8-14-2006      51.09;
                          51.99
06-39      11-13-2006     38.045
                          151.01—
06-52      11-13-2006     151.08;
                          151.99
06-60      12-1-2006      38.075—
                          38.079
07-03      2-1-2007       51.10
07-13      7-9-2007       114.08
07-23      11-12-2007     55.01—
                          55.10
07-25      12-10-2007     30.01
07-27      12-10-2007     92.20—
                          92.28
07-33      12-17-2007     32.06
08-03      1-11-2008      37.001
07-22      3-13-2008      TSO II
                          111.01—
08-15      6-9-2008       111.08;
                          111.99
08-14      7-14-2008      38.031
08-38      8-11-2008      40.01—
                          40.06
08-42      9-8-2008       56.01—
                          56.04
08-49      12-8-2008      38.090—
                          38.094
09-01      3-23-2009      37.047
09-08      5-18-2009      38.195;
                          38.196
09-07      5-19-2009      115.01—
                          115.07
09-12      6-9-2009       39.065
                          131.01—
09-09      9-14-2009      131.14;
                          131.99
09-13      9-14-2009      TSO I
09-30      1-11-2010      40.07
10-07      5-10-2010      114.08
10-12      6-14-2010      31.12
10-10      7-12-2010      38.060
10-29      12-27-2010     TSO I
11-03      2-14-2011      TSO III
10-22      2-28-2011      38.210;
                          38.211
                          74.01—
10-23      2-28-2011      74.04;
                          74.99
11-07      5-9-2011       32.38
11-12      6-27-2011      93.01;
                          93.99
11-11      7-11-2011      TSO I
                          74.01—
11-16      7-11-2011      74.04;
                          74.99
11-10      7-12-2011      38.031
11-15      8-8-2011       TSO II
11-17      9-12-2011      70.09;
                          70.99
11-18      9-26-2011      TSO II
11-21      10-24-2011     TSO I
12-07      3-12-2012      38.225
12-08      4-9-2012       38.240
12-12      5-14-2012      70.04
                          52.01—
12-23      7-3-2012       52.07;
                          52.99
12-19      7-9-2012       38.210;
                          38.211
                          91.40—
12-20      7-9-2012       91.48;
                          91.99
12-27      9-10-2012      TSO II
12-31      10-29-2012     39.040—
                          39.052
12-28      12-10-2012     130.02
12-40      12-10-2012     38.240
12-47      12-10-2012     36.01
13-04      1-14-2013      TSO II
13-05      2-11-2013      TSO II
13-07      2-11-2013      31.12
12-10-2012 3-11-2013      130.99
                          115.04;
12-28      5-13-2013      130.02;
                          130.99
13-21      8-12-2013      TSO II
13-28      10-15-2013     TSO IV
13-12      12-9-2013      150.51
13-32      12-9-2013      150.50
13-33      12-9-2013      37.090—
                          37.098
14-01      2-24-2014      TSO I
14-04      2-24-2014      TSO II
14-05      2-24-2014      TSO II
                          112.01—
14-06      3-10-2014      112.04;
                          112.99
14-13      3-10-2014      55.03
14-10      4-14-2014      TSO II
14-14      4-14-2014      38.165
14-23      6-9-2014       93.10
14-26      9-8-2014       153.01
                          37.093;
14-31      7-14-2014      37.094;
                          37.098
                          151.01—
15-03      3-9-2015       151.08;
                          151.99
                          113.01—
14-53      3-23-2015      113.12;
                          113.99
15-09      5-26-2015      TSO II
15-13      6-8-2015       153.01
15-20      6-22-2015      33.100
15-17      7-13-2015      TSO II
16-02      3-11-2016      TSO II
16-01      4-11-2016      TSO II
16-03      4-11-2016      TSO II
16-15      6-13-2016      30.03
16-17      6-27-2016      33.085
16-18      6-27-2016      110.15
16-21      6-27-2016      37.110
16-22      6-27-2016      37.002
16-49      1-9-2017       TSO II
17-01      3-13-2017      TSO II
17-12      3-27-2017      112.01
17-10      5-8-2017       153.01
17-11      5-8-2017       TSO II
17-15      6-12-2017      TSO II
17-27      10-9-2017      TSO II
17-38      10-9-2017      39.001
17-49      1-8-2018       39.040;
                          39.042
18-10      6-4-2018       TSO II
18-26      6-12-2018      TSO I
                          52.01—
18-23      6-25-2018      52.07;
                          52.99
18-14      7-9-2018       TSO II
18-22      7-9-2018       TSO II
18-30      9-10-2018      TSO II
18-41      11-12-2018     TSO II
18-47      11-12-2018     TSO II
                          74.01—
18-50      11-12-2018     74.04;
                          74.99
19-01      2- -2019       TSO II
19-07      4-9-2019       TSO II
                          116.01—
                          116.03;
19-31      9-9-2019       116.15—
                          116.21;
                          116.99
19-54      10-14-2019     37.003
19-55      11-11-2019     TSO II
                          32.20;
19-64      12-19-2019     39.065;
                          150.50;
                          150.51
20-03      1-13-2020      30.04
20-04      3-9-2020       TSO II
20-05      3-9-2020       TSO II
20-06      3-9-2020       TSO II
20-07      3-9-2020       TSO II
20-10      4-13-2020      TSO II
20-11      4-13-2020      TSO II
20-12      4-13-2020      TSO II
20-15      6-8-2020       TSO II
20-16      6-8-2020       TSO II
20-17      6-8-2020       TSO I
20-20      7-13-2020      TSO II
20-24      8-10-2020      TSO II
20-33      10-12-2020     TSO II
20-53      12-28-2020     39.002
21-12      2-22-2021      33.005
21-13      4-12-2021      TSO II
21-18      5-10-2021      TSO II
21-19      5-10-2021      TSO II
21-20      5-10-2021      TSO II
21-30      5-24-2021      33.115;
                          33.116
                          90.01—
21-32      7-12-2021      90.28;
                          90.99
21-36      8-23-2021      TSO II
                          39.080;
                          39.081;
                          93.01—
21-37      10-11-2021     93.07;
                          93.09—
                          93.13;
                          93.99
                          39.065;
21-62      12-27-2021     39.080;
                          150.50;
                          150.51
21-54      1-10-2022      TSO II
                          34.001—
                          34.005;
                          34.007;
                          34.008;
                          34.021—
                          34.028;
                          34.040—
                          34.054;
                          34.065—
                          34.067;
                          34.080;
22-01      2-14-2022      34.095—
                          34.106;
                          34.120;
                          34.135;
                          34.150—
                          34.152;
                          34.165—
                          34.167;
                          34.180—
                          34.182;
                          34.195—
                          34.198;
                          34.999
22-03      3-14-2022      TSO II
22-04      4-11-2022      TSO II
22-12      5-9-2022       TSO II
22-13      5-9-2022       TSO II
22-20      5-23-2022      38.060
22-24      6-13-2022      TSO I
22-25      6-27-2022      72.19;
                          72.99
                          33.130—
22-09      7-11-2022      33.144;
                          33.999
                          55.02;
22-36      9-12-2022      55.03;
                          55.09
22-44      10-24-2022     37.060—
                          37.078
22-45      10-24-2022     37.002
22-49      10-24-2022     36.01
22-42      11-28-2022     TSO II
                          31.02;
22-50      11-28-2022     32.36;
                          32.65
22-51      11-28-2022     TSO I
                          39.001;
                          39.065;
22-64      12-27-2022     39.080;
                          150.50;
                          150.51
22-66      12-27-2022     39.042
22-59      1-9-2023       TSO II
22-60      1-9-2023       TSO II
22-63      1-9-2023       TSO I
22-37      2-13-2023      33.100
22-35      5-8-2023       153.01
23-11      6-26-2023      37.125—
                          37.132
23-13      7-10-2023      30.05
                          Ch. 76, Sch. I;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. II;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. III;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. IV;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. V;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. VI;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. VII;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. VIII;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. IX;
23-31      10-23-2023     Ch. 76, Sch. X;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. XI;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. XII;
                          Ch. 77, Sch. I;
                          Ch. 77, Sch. II;
                          Ch. 77, Sch. III;
                          Ch. 77, Sch. IV;
                          Ch. 77, Sch. V;
                          Ch. 77, Sch. VI;
                          Ch. 77, Sch. VIII;
                          Ch. 77, Sch. IX
23-33      11-13-2023     30.01
24-07      1-29-2024      32.50;
                          32.51
24-08      1-29-2024      93.25—
                          93.29
                          Ch. 76, Sch. I;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. II;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. III;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. IV;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. V;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. VI;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. VII;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. VIII;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. IX;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. X;
24-11      2-12-2024      Ch. 76, Sch. XI;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. XII;
                          Ch. 77, Sch. I;
                          Ch. 77, Sch. II;
                          Ch. 77, Sch. III;
                          Ch. 77, Sch. IV;
                          Ch. 77, Sch. V;
                          Ch. 77, Sch. VI;
                          Ch. 77, Sch. VII;
                          Ch. 77, Sch. VIII;
                          Ch. 77, Sch. IX
24-15      3-11-2024      153.01
24-19      3-25-2024      37.004
24-27      4-22-2024      38.250;
                          38.251
24-29      5-28-2024      38.260;
                          38.261
24-34      6-24-2024      110.30—
                          110.43
24-35      6-10-2024      38.270;
                          38.271
24-43      7-22-2024      39.015—
                          39.031
24-59      8-26-2024      35.30—
                          35.46
24-47      12-9-2024      153.01
24-67      12-9-2024      112.05
                          Ch. 76, Sch. I;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. III;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. IV;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. V;
24-73      12-23-2024     Ch. 76, Sch. VII;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. VIII;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. IX;
                          Ch. 76, Sch. X;
                          Ch. 77, Sch. I
                          39.001;
                          39.065;
24-74      12-23-2024     39.080;
                          150.50;
                          150.51
24-78      1-13-2025      38.225;
                          38.226
25-01      1-27-2025      38.280;
                          38.281
25-08      2-24-2025      110.50—
                          110.63
25-10      2-24-2025      38.290;
                          38.291
25-25      4-28-2025      33.150—
                          33.154
25-22      5-12-2025      153.01
25-43      7-14-2025      39.003
                          74.01—
25-30      7-28-2025      74.08;
                          74.99
                         
 
