WHITE COUNTY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 24-08-19-01, passed 8-19-2024; and
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service,
2024 Acts, Pamphlet No. 3
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the county, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “White County
Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   (1)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws,
amendments thereto and newly enacted laws.
      (2)   Any previously existing law or amendment thereto reenacted by this
code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it had not been repealed by
this code.
      (3)   All rules and regulations adopted under laws reenacted in this code
shall remain in full force and effect unless repealed or amended subsequent to
the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of White County, Indiana.
      COUNCIL. The County Council of White County, Indiana.
      COUNTY. White County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) above does not affect the operation of
division (B) above with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of the county exercising the
powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
or Board refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department,
officer, agency, authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name
designation is incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or
following the effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed
with that entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named
board, bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   (1)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided,
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.
      (2)   If the last day be a Saturday, Sunday or a county holiday, it shall
be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any penalty,
forfeiture or liability incurred under the section, unless the repealing
section so expressly provides.
   (C)   The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the
purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of
the penalty, forfeiture or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to an indication thereof as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. For example and to distinguish, Board
of Commissioner ordinances are set out as: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15,
passed 1-1-1970); and Council ordinances are set out as: (Council Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-1980; Council Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985).
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws. This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (B)   The liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted.
   (C)   In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS AND OFFICIALS
      
31.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
32.   GENERAL POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS AND OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Council and Commissioner districts
   
30.02   Voting districts
Organizations
   
30.15   Emergency Management Department
   
30.16   School Safety Commission
   
30.17   Voter Board
   
30.18   Economic Development Commission
   
30.19   Department of Redevelopment; Redevelopment Commission
   
30.20   E-911 bylaws
   
30.21   Hospital Building Authority
   
30.22   Sheriff’s Police Reserve
   
30.23   Health Department
   
30.24   Address Planning Authority
   
30.25   Board of Aviation Commissioners
   
30.26   Innkeeper's Tax Commission
   
30.27   Public Defender Board
Officials and Employees
   
30.35   Precinct officers
   
30.36   ADA Coordinator
   
30.37   Compensatory time
   
30.38   Insurance benefits for elected officials
   
30.39   Personnel Policies Handbook
   
Appendix A: Department of Emergency Management
   
Appendix B: Notice Under the Americans with Disabilities Act
   
Appendix C: Grievance Procedure
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 COUNCIL AND COMMISSIONER DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The county is divided into three County Commissioner election
districts designated numerically as follows:
      (1)   District 1. This district shall consist of all of Big Creek
Township, Prairie Township, Round Grove Township and West Point Township;
      (2)   District 2. This district shall consist of all of Honey Creek
Township, Princeton Township and Monon Township; and
      (3)   District 3. This district shall consist of Cass Township, Jackson
Township, Liberty Township, Lincoln Township and all of the precincts in Union
Township as follows: Union 1, Union 2, Union 3, Union 4, Union 5, Union 6 and
Union 7 Townships.
   (B)   The county is divided into four County Council election districts
designated numerically as follows:
      (1)   District 1. This district shall consist of all of Big Creek
Township, Prairie Township, Princeton Township, Round Grove Township and West
Point Township;
      (2)   District 2. This district shall consist of all of Honey Creek
Township, Monon Township and the second precinct in Union Township; and
      (3)   District 3. This district shall consist of the following precincts
of Union Township: Precinct 3, Precinct 4, Precinct 5, Precinct 6 and Precinct
7; and
      (4)   District 4. This district shall consist of all of Cass Township,
Jackson Township, Lincoln Township, Liberty Township and the first precinct in
Union Township.
(Ord. 11-12-05-01, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 30.02 VOTING DISTRICTS.
   For elections, as soon as possible and whenever and when legal, the
districts of Monticello, Indiana, shall be defined as follows:
   (A)   Precinct No. 4. Beginning 200 feet north of the southwest corner of
Section 21, Township 27 North, Range 3 West in Union Township, White County,
Indiana (or the intersection of Sixth Street and CR 100 N) and continuing south
89 degrees 12 minutes 38 seconds east 598 feet; north 00 degrees 42 minutes 22
seconds east 1,141.2 feet to the fractional section line; east to the
centerline of Norway Road (referring to the Monticello city limits certified by
the County Surveyor and as shown in the records of the state-certifying
official);
   (B)   Precinct No 5. Beginning where the Monticello corporation line
intersects the north right-of-way line of the C.S.X. Railroad and continuing
north 00 degrees 05 minutes 41 seconds west 1,033.27 feet; north 00 degrees 06
minutes 49 seconds west 5,337.67 feet to the centerline of CR 100 N (referring
to the Monticello city limits certified by the County Surveyor and as shown in
the records of the state-certifying official);
   (C)   Precinct No. 6. Beginning where the Monticello corporation line
intersects the centerline of Lake Freeman (Tippecanoe River) and continuing
west 1,168 feet to the centerline of Main Street (referring to the Monticello
city limits certified by the County Surveyor and as shown in the records of the
state-certifying official); and
   (D)   Precinct No. 7. Beginning where the Monticello corporation line
intersects Main Street and continuing south 89 degrees 53 minutes west 836.64
feet; north 00 degrees 07 minutes west 900 feet; 1,335 feet; west 1,354.5 feet;
north 1,395.2 feet; west 1,448.2 feet to Sixth Street; north 2,720 feet to the
north right-of-way line of Broadway Street (or U.S. 24); north 89 degrees 10
minutes 41 seconds west 892.58 feet; north 00 degrees 03 minutes 19 seconds
east 5 feet; north 89 degrees 10 minute 41 seconds west 446.07 feet; north 00
degrees 08 minutes 41 seconds west 1,633.65 feet to the north right-of-way line
of the C.S.X. Railroad (referring to the Monticello city limits certified by
the County Surveyor and as shown in the records of the state-certifying
official).
(Res. 12-29-93-1, passed 12-29-1993)
ORGANIZATIONS
§ 30.15 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The County Department of Emergency Management is hereby established
pursuant to Appendix A, which is located at the end of this chapter, made a
part hereof and incorporated herein by reference containing the substantive
provisions of this section and is incorporated into this section.
   (B)   This section is intended to fully comply with I.C. 10-14-3, the
state’s Emergency Management Law.
(Ord. 13-07-01-01, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 30.16 SCHOOL SAFETY COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation. Pursuant to Indiana State law, the County Board of
Commissioners do, by this section, create a County School Safety Commission, as
contemplated by the statute, as follows.
   (B)   Members of the Commission. The County School Safety Commission (the
“Commission”) shall include the following members: the Judge of the Circuit
Court or his or her designee; the County Sheriff or his or her designee; the
chief officer of the Monticello City Police and the Town Marshals from each of
the incorporated towns located in the county; a representative of the juvenile
probation system as appointed by the Judge of the White Circuit Court; a
representative of the State Police District; a representative of the
Prosecuting Attorney’s Council of the state specializing in the prosecution of
juveniles in the county; a County Commissioner or a designee, the Director of
the County Emergency Management, the School Safety Specialist, the School
Administrators, the School Resource Officer and such other individuals as
selected from time to time by the Commission by majority vote.
   (C)   Initial meeting of the Commission. The School Safety Specialist of the
Twin Lakes School Corporation shall convene the initial meeting of the
Commission, which shall occur prior to 1-30-2014.
   (D)   Other Commission meetings. The Commission, at its initial meeting,
shall determine the frequency, scheduling and location of future meetings of
the Commission, which meetings will occur no less than annually.
   (E)   Chairperson of the Commission. The Commission, at its initial meeting,
shall, by a majority vote, select a Chairperson for the Commission and, at each
annual meeting, the Chairperson for the Commission for the upcoming year shall
be elected by majority vote of the Commission.
   (F)   Duties of the Commission. The Commission shall perform a cumulative
analysis of school safety needs within the county. Additionally, the Commission
shall coordinate and make recommendations for the following: prevention of
juvenile offenses and for improving the reporting of juvenile offenses within
county schools, proposals to identify and assess children who are at high risk
of becoming juvenile offenders, methods to meet the educational needs of
children who have been detained as juvenile offenders, methods to improve
communication among agencies that work with children in the county, methods to
improve security and emergency preparedness, additional equipment or personnel
that are necessary to carry out school safety plans. The overall purpose of the
Commission is to improve school safety in the schools located within the
county, and the Commission shall consider, discuss and make recommendations on
all topics relating to improvement in school safety within the county’s
schools.
   (G)   Assistance to School Safety Specialists and school corporations. The
Commission shall provide assistance to the school safety specialists from the
four county school corporations in developing and requesting grants for safety
plans. Additionally, the Commission shall provide assistance to the School
Safety Specialists and the participating school corporations. In developing and
requesting grants for school safe haven programs as provided under Indiana
State law, the Commission shall assist each of the four county school
corporations in carrying out the school corporations’ safety plans.
   (H)   Voting. All decisions of the Commission shall be determined by a
majority vote of those members of the Commission in attendance at meetings of
the Commission.
   (I)   Notice of meetings. The Chairperson or his or her designee shall
provide advance notice of all meetings of the Commission by U.S. mail or
electronic mail at least three days prior to any meeting of the Commission,
except in the event of an emergency, in which case telephone or electronic mail
notification will be provided to all members of the Commission.
(Res. 13-12-30-02, passed 12-30-2013)
§ 30.17 VOTER BOARD.
   (A)   The sum of $10.35 shall be paid to all Absentee Voter Board members
hourly.
   (B)   The mileage per diem determined by the fiscal body, in the sum of
$0.55 per mile shall be paid to each Board member sent to assist voters under
I.C. 3-11-10-25, and who are required to drive to and from residents to assist
voter during the period from 30 days before an election through the day before
the election, and the boards that are assigned to deliver absentee ballots to
the precincts on election day.
   (C)   In addition to the above per diem, each Absentee Board member shall
receive the sum of $25 for the training pursuant to I.C. 3-11-10-39.
   (D)   This section took effect immediately.
(Ord. 12-02-21-03, passed 2-21-2012)
§ 30.18 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 6-9-10.5-9, there is hereby created a county
commission to promote economic development and the development and growth of
the convention, visitor and tourism industry in the county.
   (B)   Subject to the provisions of I.C. 6-9-10.5-9, there shall be five
members of said Commission.
   (C)   This section was in full force and effect immediately upon passage.
(Ord. 11-08-01-01, passed 8-1-2011)
§ 30.19 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT; REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the county deems it to be in the best
interest of the county and its citizens to afford a maximum opportunity for
rehabilitation, redevelopment or economic development of areas by private
enterprise and the county by establishing a department of areas by private
enterprise and the county by establishing a Department of Redevelopment.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners hereby establishes the Department of
Redevelopment of the county. The Department will be controlled by a board of
five members known as the “White County Redevelopment Commission”.
   (C)   Pursuant to the Act, all of the territory within the corporate
boundaries of the county will be a special taxing district to be knows as the
“White County Redevelopment District” for the purpose of levying and collecting
special benefit taxes for redevelopment and economic development purposes as
provided in the Act. The Board of Commissioners finds and determines that all
of the taxable property within this special taxing district will be considered
to be benefitted by the redevelopment and economic development projects carried
out under the Act to the extent of the special taxes levied under the Act.
   (D)   (1)   The Board of County Commissioners shall appoint all five of the
members of the County Redevelopment Commission.
      (2)   The term of office of the members of the County Redevelopment
Commission shall commence from the date of their appointment and expire on 1-1-
2007.
   (E)   This section was in full force and effect from and after its passage.
(Ord. 06-05-15-01, passed 5-15-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Authorization of redevelopment commissions and redevelopment taxing
districts, see I.C. 36-7-14-3
§ 30.20 E-911 BYLAWS.
   (A)   Name. The name of this board shall be the County Communications E-911
Board.
   (B)   Object. 
      (1)   The purpose for which this Board is organized is to provide the
County Commissioners with information, advice and recommendations regarding the
County Communications system. This shall include the review of:
         (a)   Day to day operations and long range planning.
         (b   Training of personnel.
         (c)   Dispatching standards.
         (d)   Other matters which time to time need the review of the board in
order to maintain an effective and efficient E-911 communications system.
         (e)   Other duties assigned by the County Commissioners.
      (2)   The specific functions of the Board in order to meet their purpose
shall include:
         (a)   Conduct and submit annual evaluation of the Director to the
Commissioners.
         (b)   May review dispatcher annual evaluations.
         (c)   Review and approve standard operating procedures.
         (d)   May participate in the interview of finalist in all full-time
positions. Make recommendation to the White County Commissioners for their
action.
   (C)   Powers. The Board shall have the powers only conveyed upon it by the
government of White County, IN.
   (D)   Membership. As appointed by the County Commissioners.
   (E)   Officers.
      (1)   Officers of the Board are President, Vice President, and Secretary.
      (2)   Each officer shall be elected by all members of the Board at the
December meeting of each year. Each officer must be at the end of the meeting
to take over the responsibilities of that office. Term for each office shall be
one year.
      (3)   An officer may resign his/her position by submitting a letter of
resignation to the Board.
      (4)   Should a vacancy occur during the year, a special meeting shall be
called in order to elect a new officer.
   (F)   Meetings and quorum.
      (1)   General meetings. Regular meetings of the Board will be held
quarterly on the third Wednesday in March, June, September, and December of
each year, at 8:30 a.m. So long as a meeting is held during each of the four
months set out above the Board may change the specific date and time of the
regular meetings by simple majority vote without further amendment of the
bylaws.
      (2)   Special general meetings may be called by an Officer with 72-hours’
notice and proper public notification.
      (3)   A quorum is 50% of the Board attending.
   (G)   Amendments. Amendments to the bylaws of the Board may be made. Any
member may make a motion or submit an amendment to the Board in writing in an
open meeting. Discussion will follow and a vote taken at the next regular
meeting of the Board. All amendments must be confirmed by the County
Commissioners.
   (H)   Job descriptions.
      (1)   President. Elected by the general membership. It shall be the duty
of the President to preside at all meetings and perform all duties of his/her
office. The President shall perform the following duties:
         (a)   Preside at all meetings under the Roberts Rules of Order.
         (b)   Assume responsibility for the operation of the Board.
         (c)   Appoint all committees and supervise their activities.
         (d)   Enforce the conditions of the bylaws.
         (e)   Shall vote in the event of a tie.
      (2)   Vice President. Elected by general membership. In absence or
disability of the President, the Vice President shall perform all the duties of
the President. The Vice President shall also perform the following duties:
         (a)   Preside in the absence of the President.
         (b)   Carry out such duties and assignments as may be delegated by the
President.
      (3)   Secretary. Elected by general membership. The secretary shall keep
the minutes of all proceedings and record same.
         (a)   Record the minutes of meetings.
         (b)   Send minutes to the Director to distribute.
         (c)   Perform such duties as the office may require.
   (I)   Order of Business.
      (1)   The usual order of business is as follows:
         (a)   Call to Order, by the presiding officer.
         (b)   Roll call of the Board members, and the announcement of a quorum
by the Secretary.
         (c)   Reading of the minutes of previous meeting, by the Secretary,
(followed by a vote for acceptance).
         (d)   Committee reports.
         (e)   Old business.
         (f)   New business.
         (g)   Miscellaneous and all other matters.
         (h)   Adjournment.
      (2)   Agendas shall be delivered to all members five days prior to each
meeting. The agenda shall be completed and distributed by the Secretary.
(Res. passed 12-21-1998; Res. 2002-02, passed 5-6-2002; Res. passed 6-15-2011)
§ 30.21 HOSPITAL BUILDING AUTHORITY.
   The Board of County Commissioners hereby authorize the creation of a
corporate body to be known as the “White County Hospital Association” for
specific purpose of financing, acquiring, constructing, renovating, equipping
and leasing to the White County Memorial Hospital or county land and buildings,
including existing buildings, for hospital purposes.
(Res. 1992-11-16, passed 11-16-1992)
§ 30.22 SHERIFF’S POLICE RESERVE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3-20, the Board of Commissioners of the county
do authorize the establishment of a County Sheriff’s Reserve Force.
   (B)   Said organization shall be and hereby is affiliated with the County
Sheriff’s Department and is subject to the rules and regulations of the County
Sheriff’s Department insofar as they affect and prescribe the functions of the
organization.
   (C)   The purpose of this unit shall be support and assistance of the
regular staff of the County Sheriff’s Department in its professional duties and
promote public safety within the county. Further, the unit shall aid the
citizens of the county and various organizations and agencies of said county as
directed and approved by the Sheriff.
   (D)   The County Sheriff’s Reserve Force shall be limited to a membership
not to exceed 15 members.
   (E)   The members of the County Sheriff’s Reserve Force shall be appointed
and/or relieved of their duties by the County Sheriff’s Merit Board upon
recommendations of the Sheriff.
   (F)   The members of the Sheriff’s Reserve Force shall be designated as
County Reserve Deputy Sheriff’s as provided by law.
   (G)   (1)   The members of the County Sheriff’s Reserve Force shall not be
members of the regular Sheriff’s Department of the county, but shall have all
the same police powers of such members, except as limited by the rules of the
County Sheriff’s Department.
      (2)   Said Department is hereby authorized to adopt rules to limit the
authority of the Reserve Deputy Sheriff’s as may be required.
   (H)   Reserve Deputy Sheriff’s may not participate in any pension program
provided for regular members of the Department.
   (I)   The members of the County Sheriff’s Reserve Force may be called into
active service at any time the Sheriff of said county or his or her designee
considers it necessary to reserve the peace and enforce the law.
   (J)   Members of the County Sheriff’s Reserve may not be called into active
service until they have completed a training program established and conducted
by the Sheriff of the county.
   (K)   Members of the County Sheriff’s Reserve shall serve a period of one
year in a probationary status before being accepted as a permanent member of
the force.
   (L)   Members of the County Sheriff’s Reserve Force may receive compensation
for time lost from regular employment for court appearances if said funds are
appropriated by the County Council.
   (M)   Members of the County Sheriff’s Reserve Force shall be provided with
one uniform by the County Sheriff’s Department.
   (N)   All members of the County Sheriff’s Reserves shall agree to abide by
all lawful orders issued by the Sheriff of the county or his or her designee.
   (O)   This section was in full force and effect from and after its passage
and adoption.
(Ord. 91-03-02, passed 3-4-1991)
§ 30.23 HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners, acting under authority granted by §
604, Ch. 157, Acts of 1949, State General Assembly, provides for the
establishment and maintenance of a full-time County Health Department.
   (B)   The full-time County Health Department established hereby was in full
force and effect as of 1-1-1964.
(Ord. passed 1-1-1964; Ord. passed 1-1-1974)
§ 30.24 ADDRESS PLANNING AUTHORITY.
   The County Area Plan Commission shall serve as the coordinating body in the
county with the responsibility for assigning street addresses within its
jurisdiction. The agency shall coordinate its addressing efforts with the
County Sheriff’s Department, Communications Supervisor, County Surveyor, local
postmasters and large mailers into the county, such as utilities and
government, within a seven-day period.
(Ord. 91-12-16, passed 12-16-1991; Ord. 05-10-03-02, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 30.25 BOARD OF AVIATION COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   The county is in favor of the acquisition, improvement, operation and
maintenance of an airport or landing field in compliance with any and all
provisions of any current Acts of the General Assembly of the State of Indiana
or of any Acts which may be enacted.
   (B)   It is hereby declared that there is a need and necessity for the
creation of a Board of Aviation Commissioners in the best interest and welfare
of the people of this community.
   (C)   A Board of Aviation Commissioners is formed in compliance with the
current Acts of the General Assembly of the State of Indiana.
(Res. passed 4-26-1961)
§ 30.26 INNKEEPER'S TAX COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment/fund allocation.
      (1)   There is hereby created an Innkeeper's Tax Commission (the
"Commission") for the county; and
      (2)   There is hereby created a Lake Enhancement Fund and a Promotion
Fund.
      (3)   The 5% innkeeper's tax shall so be allocated that 60% of the tax
collections shall go the Lake Enhancement Fund and 40% of the tax collections
shall go into the Promotion Fund.
   (B)   Composition of the Commission.
      (1)   Commission shall consist of one member appointed by the County
Council, the County Treasurer, one member appointed by SFLECC and two members
appointed by the Monticello Lake Resort Association. At least one of the
members appointed by the Monticello Lake Resort Owners Association must be
engaged in the short term rental business in the county.
      (2)   No more than a simple majority of members of the Commission may be
affiliated with the same political party. Each member of the Commission must be
a resident of White County, Indiana.
      (3)   All terms of office of the Commission members begin on January 1.
All appointments made after the adoption of this section shall be for two-year
terms, excluding the Treasurer, whose term shall coincide with his/her term in
office. If a vacancy occurs, the appointing authority shall appoint a qualified
person to serve for the remainder of the term. If a vacancy is not filled
within 30 days from the date the vacancy occurs, the Commission shall appoint a
member by majority vote of the entire Commission.
      (4)   A member of the Commission may be removed for cause by his/her
appointing authority.
      (5)   Members of the Commission may not receive a salary. However,
Commission members are entitled to reimbursement for necessary expenses
incurred in the performance of their respective duties.
   [MISSING MATERIAL]
   (E)   Expenses. All expenses of the Commission shall be paid from the Lake
Enhancement Fund established by the County Council and the County Board of
Commissioners. The Commission shall annually prepare a budget and submit its
budget to the County Council for its review and approval. An expenditure,
beyond the budget, may not be made unless it is in accordance with an
appropriation made by the County Council in the manner provided by law.
   (F)   Collections/expenditures. All money coming into possession of the
Commission shall be deposited, held, secured, invested, and paid in accordance
with statutes relating to the handling of public funds. The handling and
expenditures of money coming into possession of the Commission is subject to
audit and supervision by the State Board of Accounts.
   (G)   (1)   A member of the Commission who knowingly:
         (a)   Approves the transfer of money to a person or corporation not
qualified under law to receive the transfer; or
         (b)   Approves a transfer for a purpose not permitted under law
commits a Level 6 felony.
      (2)   A person who receives a transfer of money under this chapter and
knowingly uses the money for any purpose not permitted under this section
commits a Level 6 felony.
(Ord. 19-08-19-06, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 30.27 PUBLIC DEFENDER BOARD.
   (A)   Purpose of Board. The County Public Defender Board has been
established for the purpose of providing legal representation to indigent
defendants/respondents in criminal, juvenile, probation violation, extradition,
child support, civil commitments, and other proceedings where the right to
counsel has been established by law.
   (B)   Definitions. When used herein, the following words and terms shall be
defined as follows:
      BOARD. The White County Public Defender Board.
      INDIGENT DEFENDANT/RESPONDENT. A person who requests legal representation
and is determined by the court to be entitled to legal representation at public
expense.
      LEGAL REPRESENTATION. The services of an attorney provided to a
defendant/respondent in a matter originating in a state court in the county
involving:
         (a)   A person charged with a crime as defined in I.C. § 35-31.5-2-75;
         (b)   An act of delinquency as defined in I.C. § 3l-37-1-2;
         (c)   A violation of a condition of probation established as a part of
a sentence in a juvenile or criminal matter;
         (d)   Detention of a person subject to extradition to another
jurisdiction;
         (e)   Proceedings to collect unpaid child support pursuant to I.C.
Article 31-16;
         (f)   Civil commitment and contempt proceedings; or
         (g)   Other proceedings where the right to counsel at public expense
has been established by law.
      The term LEGAL REPRESENTATION includes services in connection with all
pre-trial, trial, and appellate proceedings in which an indigent defendant/
respondent has a right to counsel.
   (C)   Board membership and appointment.
      (1)   The Board shall consist of three members: one member appointed by
the County Commissioners, one member appointed by the judges in the county who
exercise felony or juvenile jurisdiction, and one member appointed by the
Indiana Public Defender Commission.
      (2)   The initial term of the member appointed by the County
Commissioners shall expire on June 1, 2026. The initial term of the member
appointed by the judges shall expire on June 1, 2027, and the initial term of
the member appointed by the Indiana Public Defender Commission shall expire on
June 1, 2025.
      (3)   After the initial term of each member, appointments shall be for
three-year terms. Members of the Board shall serve until their successor is
appointed. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the authority
appointing the member vacating the position and shall be for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
      (4)   The following persons shall be ineligible to serve as members of
the Board: a city, town, or county attorney; a law enforcement officer; a
judge; a court employee; an attorney who provides representation to indigent
persons in the county or region managed by the Board; an employee of the
Department of Child Services; or an employee of any the individuals enumerated
in this section.
      (5)   Board members shall serve without pay but may receive reimbursement
for expenses incurred in connection with the member's duties if approved by the
Board.
      (6)   Two members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose
of conducting the business of the Board. Decisions of the Board shall be
approved by a majority of the members present.
      (7)   The Board shall meet at least quarterly or upon call of its
chairperson or any two members of the Board.
      (8)   The Board shall elect its chairperson by a majority vote of the
Board.
   (D)   Powers and duties of the Board. The Board shall have the following
powers and duties:
      (1)   Prepare a comprehensive plan for providing legal representation to
indigent defendants/respondents in the county in accordance with I.C. § 33-40-
7-5. The comprehensive plan shall, at a minimum, provide for:
         (a)   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent at the
earliest possible point in time;
         (b)   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent by the
same attorney or attorneys through the pendency of the matter to the greatest
extent possible; and
         (c)   Professional development, continuing legal education, and
malpractice coverage for public defenders.
      (2)   Establish policies and procedure for the provision of competent
legal representation for indigent defendants/respondents in criminal, juvenile,
probation violation, extradition, child support and criminal contempt, and
other matters pursuant to the comprehensive plan.
      (3)   Establish guidelines and procedures for the determination of
indigency and for the appropriate reimbursement for legal representation
provided at public expense in accordance with I.C. Chapter 33-40-3.
      (4)   Recommend an annual operating budget for the agency and monitor the
expenditures of funds.
      (5)   Prepare and submit to the County Council and the general public an
annual report on the operation of the agency.
   (E)   Authority of judges. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to
abridge the authority of any judge of a state court of this county from
appointing counsel for any person entitled thereto under the Constitution of
the United States or the Constitution of the State of Indiana.
(Ord. 24-05-20-01, passed 5-20-2024)
OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 30.35 PRECINCT OFFICERS.
   (A)   The following sum shall be paid to all precinct election workers as
compensation for the performance of all duties of office imposed on the person
that are performed on election day.
 Compensation
                                                                        Compensation
Absentee Board worker assigned to Clerk’s office                      $10.35
                                                                        hourly rate
                                                                        $10.35
Absentee Board workers assigned to voters outside the Clerk’s office  hourly rate
(traveling board)                                                       Mileage per
                                                                        diem: $0.55
                                                                        per mile
                                                                        $125
Assistant Clerk                                                         compensation
                                                                        $25 training
                                                                        $150 total
                                                                        $125
Clerk                                                                   compensation
                                                                        $25 training
                                                                        $150 total
                                                                        $150
Opposite Party Judge                                                    compensation
                                                                        $25 training
                                                                        $175 total
                                                                        $175
Precinct Inspector                                                      compensation
                                                                        $25 training
                                                                        $200 total
 
   (B)   This section took effect immediately.
(Ord. 14-03-03-01, passed 3-3-2014)
§ 30.36 ADA COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act, a copy of which
is located at the end of this chapter as Appendix B, is adopted as the county
notice under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and shall state the name
of the ADA Coordinator.
   (B)   The county grievance procedure under the ADA, a copy of which is
located at the end of this chapter as Appendix C, is adopted as the grievance
procedure for addressing complaints alleging discrimination on the basis of
disability in the provisions of services, activities, programs or benefits by
the county.
   (C)   In compliance with federal and state laws as set forth above, the
Commissioners of the county resolves to post the required information regarding
the ADA Coordinator, notice under the ADA and the county grievance procedure
under the ADA on its website and at such other locations as may be determined
from time to time.
(Ord. 12-12-17-01, passed 12-17-2012)
§ 30.37 COMPENSATORY TIME.
   (A)   Compensatory time may be accrued in lieu of being paid overtime for
all non-exempt employees, as defined by and pursuant to Section 207(m)(2)(B)(o)
of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 210, et seq., on
an hour-for-hour basis for additional hours worked up to 40 hours per week or
at a rate of one and one-half times the amount of approved hours worked in
excess of 40 in a normal work week up to a tota1 not to exceed two of the
employee's regular work weeks. The calculation of compensatory time for
employees working in public safety follows Section 207(k) of the Fair Labor
Standards Act.
   (B)   The calculation of compensatory time is based on actual hours worked.
Time off on sick leave, vacation leave, personal leave, compensatory time or
any other leave of absence will not be considered as hours worked for purposes
of calculating compensatory time. Holiday hours will be considered as hours
worked for purposes of calculating overtime hours. Use of compensatory time
must be determined in advance of submission of the payroll.
   (C)   Compensatory time will be reported on the employee's service record to
the White County Auditor with each payroll claim voucher.
   (D)   Effective immediately, all full-time employees working in a non-exempt
position may accrue a maximum of two of the employee's regular work weeks
compensatory time before monetary compensation is paid, unless an increase in
the maximum compensatory time hours is approved by the Board of Commissioners.
For time accrued prior to the passage of Ordinance 14-09-02-01, the Board of
Commissioners agrees to allow employees to use or be paid for such compensatory
time until December, 2014. All time in excess of a maximum of two of the
employee's regular work weeks compensatory time must be reported as used or
paid on the employee's service record by no later than December 8, 2014.
   (E)   Elected officials and department heads are required to monitor the
accrual of compensatory time. All compensatory time shall be approved in
advance of accrual or use. In order to avoid excessive financial liability,
elected officials and department heads must set a maximum allowance of banked
compensatory hours within their department that does not exceed the maximum
allowed by this section nor exceed the balance of their annual overtime budget
appropriation. Elected officials and department heads are encouraged to
schedule use of compensatory time as soon as possible to avoid accrual beyond
the stated limit that would require monetary payment.
   (F)   The Human Resources Department within the Auditor's Office shall
provide a compensatory time off agreement to advise non-exempt employees of the
county's compensatory time off policy.
   (G)   Upon termination of employment, employees are entitled to payment of
the unused balance of their accrued compensatory time. Payment for accrued and
unused compensatory time at termination may be included in the employee's last
regular earnings paycheck, if possible, or in a separate check.
   (H)   Upon adoption, this section will be incorporated as an amendment to
any White County Personnel Policy currently in effect.
(Ord. 14-09-02-01, passed 9-2-2014; Ord. 14-09-02-01, Amendment 1, passed 9-20-
2014)
§ 30.38 INSURANCE BENEFITS FOR ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   Elected county officials are eligible for insurance benefits the same as
full-time insurance benefit eligible employees. Elected county officials for
purposes of this section include County Auditor, County Treasurer, Recorder,
Assessor, Clerk, Surveyor, Sheriff, Coroner, Commissioners and Council.
(Ord. 18-11-05-01, passed 11-5-2018)
§ 30.39 PERSONNEL POLICIES HANDBOOK.
   The White County Personnel Policies Handbook is hereby approved and adopted
in its entirety and incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 18-12-28-01, passed 12-28-2018; Ord. 22-04-19-02, passed 4-19-2022)
APPENDIX A: DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION 1:   PURPOSE
SECTION 2:   COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM: DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL
PROVISIONS
   A.   Definitions.
   B.   General Scope and Intent: Liberal Construction of Powers.
   C.   Limitations: Non-supersession of Emergency Powers of County Sheriff.
   D.   Limitations: Non-supersession Authorized and restricted of Emergency
Management Powers of Political Subdivisions; Conformance of Political
Subdivision Emergency Management Rules and Regulations with County’s Emergency
Management Program and Emergency Plan
SECTION 3:   COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COUNCIL; COUNTY EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR; ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT
   A.   County Emergency Management Advisory Council: Establishment.
   B.   County Emergency Management Advisory Council: Power and Duties.
   C.   Director of Emergency Management: General Powers and Duties.
   D.   Department of Emergency Management: Establishment; Staffing; Oath; and
Prohibition of Political Activity.
   E.   Department of Emergency Management: Duties.
   F.   Department of Emergency Management: Budget and Finance.
   G.   Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan: Formulation; Content and
Adoption.
   H.   Jurisdiction: Department of Emergency Management; County Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan; and Political Subdivisions.
   I.   Tests of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; Other Emergency
Tests.
   J.   County Board of Commissioners: General Administrative Powers and
Duties.
SECTION 4:   COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM: EMERGENCY POWERS AND
PROCEDURES
   A.   Applicability of Section.
   B.   Special Emergency Powers and Duties of Principal Executive Officer:
Declaration of Local Disaster Emergency.
   C.   County Board of Commissioners; Convention of Special Emergency Meeting.
   D.   Principal Executive Officer: Special Emergency Powers and Duties.
   E.   County Board of Commissioners: Special Emergency Powers and Duties.
   F.   Officers and Employees of Incorporated and Unincorporated Areas of the
County: General Duties during Emergency.
   G.   Noncompliance with Emergency Orders, Rules and Regulations: Obstruction
or Impersonation of Emergency Management Authorities; Penalties and
Enforcement.
   H.   Limitation of Liability during Disaster Emergency or Emergency or
Emergency Management Tests.
   I.   Compensation for Property Commandeered or Used During Disaster
Emergency.
SECTION 5:   COUNTY WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY POWERS AND PROCEDURES
   A.   Applicability and Definitions.
   B.   Levels of Water Shortage.
   C.   Voluntary Conservation.
   D.   Declaration of Need and Authorized Officials.
   E.   Mandatory Conservation.
   F.   Rationing.
   G.   Exceptions.
   H.   Notice.
   I.   Enforcement.
SECTION 6:   COUNTY TRAVEL RESTRICTION PROGRAM, POWERS AND PROCEDURES
   A.   Applicability of Section.
   B.   Procedure.
   C.   Local Travel Advisories.
   D.   Publication.
   E.   Exemptions.
   F.   Penalties.
SECTION 1:   PURPOSE
To establish in White County, a Department of Emergency Management and to
provide for the exercise of necessary powers during disaster emergencies.
SECTION 2:   COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM; DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL
PROVISIONS
A.   Definitions
   As used in this chapter hereinafter the following words and terms have the
meanings indicated.
      1.   “Advisory Council” means the White County Emergency Management
Advisory Council as established under this Chapter, pursuant to Indiana Code
10-14-3-17.
      2.   “Board” means the Board of County Commissioners, as elected pursuant
to Indiana Code 36-2-2.
      3.   “Chairman” means the Chairman of the White County Emergency
Management Advisory Council as established under this Chapter, pursuant to
Indiana Code 10-14-3-17.
      4.   “County” means White County.
      5.   “Department” means the County Department of Emergency Management as
established under this Chapter, pursuant to Indiana Code 10-14-3-17.
      6.   “Director” means the County Emergency Management Director as
established and appointed pursuant to §
30.15 in accordance with Indiana Code 10-14-3-17.
      7.   “Disaster” has the meaning established in Indiana Code 10-14-3-1;
which at the time §
30.15 is adopted means:
      (a)   An occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury, or loss of life or property resulting from any natural phenomenon or
human act.
      (b)   The term includes any of the following:
         (1)   Fire.
         (2)   Flood.
         (3)   Earthquake.
         (4)   Windstorm.
         (5)   Snowstorm.
         (6)   Ice storm.
         (7)   Tornado.
         (8)   Wave action.
         (9)   Oil spill.
         (10)   Other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert
danger or damage.
         (11)   Air contamination.
         (12)   Drought.
         (13)   Explosion.
         (14)   Technological emergency.
         (15)   Utility failure.
         (16)   Critical shortages of essential fuels or energy.
         (17)   Major transportation accident.
         (18)   Hazardous material or chemical incident.
         (19)   Radiological incident.
         (20)   Nuclear incident.
         (21)   Biological incident.
         (22)   Epidemic.
         (23)   Public health emergency.
         (24)   Animal disease event requiring emergency action.
         (25)   Blight.
         (26)   Infestation.
         (27)   Riot.
         (28)   Hostile military or paramilitary action.
         (29)   Act of terrorism.
         (30)   Any other public calamity requiring emergency action.
      8.   “Emergency Management” has the meaning established in Indiana Code
10-14-3-2; which at the time §
30.15 is adopted means the preparation for and the coordination of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces or other
federal agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair
injury and damage resulting from disasters. The functions include the
following:
         (1)   Firefighting services.
         (2)   Police services.
         (3)   Medical and health services.
         (4)   Rescue.
         (5)   Engineering.
         (6)   Warning services.
         (7)   Communications.
         (8)   Radiological, chemical, and other special weapons defense.
         (9)   Evacuation of persons from stricken areas.
         (10)   Emergency welfare services.
         (11)   Emergency transportation.
         (12)   Plant protection.
         (13)   Temporary restoration of public utility services.
         (14)   Other functions related to civilian protection.
         (15)   All other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation
for and coordination of the functions described in subdivisions (1) through
(14).
      9.   “Emergency Management Volunteer” means any person who serves without
compensation in the Department of Emergency Management and being first duly
given the Loyalty Oath mandated by Indiana Code 10-14-3-27 and rostered and
appointed by the Director pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-3.
      10.   “Participating Emergency Service” means:
         (a)   Any county department or agency designated in the emergency
operations plan to participate in emergency management activities, and
         (b)   Any department or agency of the state, another county, a
municipal corporation, or a volunteer organization designated to participate in
the county’s emergency management programs and activities pursuant to a
cooperative or mutual aid agreement entered into pursuant to Indiana Code 10-
14-3-17.
      11.   “Personnel” means county officers and employees and emergency
management volunteers, unless otherwise indicated.
      12.   “Plan” or “Emergency Plan” means the current local Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan whose preparation and updating are mandated by
Indiana Code 10-14-3-17(h).
      13.   “Principal Executive Officer” of the county as referred to in
Indiana Code 10-14-3-29(a) for purposes of declaring a local disaster
emergency, and as referred to hereinafter, means the County Board of
Commissioners established under Indiana Code 36-2-2. If a quorum of the County
Board of Commissioners (two of the three Commissioners) is unavailable or is
incapacitated, then the following establishes the line of succession for the
Principal Executive Officer:
      (a)   Regularly Designated President of the County Board of
Commissioners.
         If a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners (two of the three
Commissioners as established under Indiana Code 36-2-4-3) is unavailable or is
incapacitated, then the regularly designated President of the County Board of
Commissioners shall serve as the Principal Executive Officer for the purposes
of §
30.15 until such time that a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners is no
longer unavailable or incapacitated.
      (b)   President Pro Tempore of the Board of County Commissioners.
         If both a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners and the
regularly designated President of the County Board of Commissioners are
unavailable or are incapacitated, then the President Pro Tempore of the County
Board of Commissioners shall serve as the Principal Executive Officer for the
purposes of §
30.15 until such time that either the regularly designated President or a
quorum of the County Board of Commissioners is no longer unavailable or
incapacitated.
      (c)   Remaining Commissioner of the Board of County Commissioners.
         If a quorum of the Board of County Commissioners, the regularly
designated President of the Board of County Commissioners, and the President
Pro-Tempore of the County Board of Commissioners are all unavailable or are
incapacitated, then the remaining Commissioner of the County Board of
Commissioners shall serve as the Principal Executive Officer for the purposes
of §
30.15 until such time that the President Pro Tempore, the regularly designated
President, or a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners is no longer
unavailable or incapacitated.
      (d)   Director of Emergency Management.
         If all of the County Commissioners are unavailable or incapacitated,
then the Director of Emergency Management shall serve as the Principal
Executive Officer for the purposes of §
30.15 until such time that all of the County Commissioners are no longer
unavailable or incapacitated.
   14.    “IDHS” means the Indiana Department of Homeland Security established
under Indiana Code 10-19-2-1.
B.   General Scope And Intent: Liberal Construction Of Powers
   The general intent of §
30.15 is to provide for all necessary and indispensable powers and procedures
reasonably needed to mitigate, prepare for, respond to and recover from
emergency conditions. To this end, all powers, both ministerial and
discretionary, as conferred herein shall be liberally construed to supplement
and augment, not to limit, any other powers or reasonable exercise of
discretion which may ordinarily pertain to county officers, employees,
department, and agencies.
C.   Limitations: Non-supersession Of Emergency Powers Of County Sheriff
   Nothing in §
30.15 is intended to supersede or limit any statutory powers of the County
Sheriff.
D.   Limitations: Non-supersession Of Emergency Management Powers Of Political
Subdivisions; Conformance Of Political Subdivision Emergency Management Rules
And Regulations With County’s Emergency Management Program And Emergency Plan
   Nothing in §
30.15 is intended to supersede or limit the powers granted under Indiana Code
10-14-3-17 to any political subdivision to adopt and implement emergency plans
and promulgate and enforce emergency management rules and regulations in the
advent of an actual emergency affecting such political subdivision. However,
pursuant to Indiana Code 10-14-3-22, such regulations and procedures as
promulgated by the political subdivision may not be inconsistent with the
county emergency management program and emergency plan established in
accordance with §
30.15.
SECTION 3   COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COUNCIL; COUNTY EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR; ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT
A.    County Emergency Management Advisory Council: Establishment
   The County Emergency Management Advisory Council, its duties, authorities
and membership are established by Indiana Code 10-14-3-17(c) and may not be
altered by a local ordinance. Under the governing statute, its membership
consists of the following individuals or their designees.
      1.   The president of the Board of County Commissioners or, if the Board
of County Commissioners does not have a president, a member of the Board of
County Commissioners appointed from the membership of the Board of County
Commissioners.
      2.   The president of the county fiscal body.
      3.   The mayor of each city located in the county.
      4.   An individual representing the legislative bodies of all towns
located within the county.
      5.   One (1) commander of a local civil air patrol unit in the county or
the commander’s designee.
      6.   Representatives of such private and public agencies or organizations
which can be of assistance to emergency management as the organizing group
considers appropriate, or as may be added later by the County Emergency
Management Advisory Council.
B.   County Emergency Management Advisory Council: Power and Duties
   The powers and duties of the County Emergency Management Advisory Council
are established by Indiana Code 10-14-3-17(d) and may not be altered by a local
ordinance. Under the governing statute:
      1.   The Advisory Council shall exercise general supervision and control
over the emergency management and disaster program of the county.
      2.   The Advisory Council shall select, or cause to be selected, with the
approval of the Board of County Commissioners, a County Emergency Management
Director.
      3.   The statute establishing the powers and duties of the Advisory
Council does not describe the procedure to be used to terminate a County
Emergency Management Director. However, the statute does require the Advisory
Council to select the Director and obtain approval for the Board for this
selection before a Director can be appointed. Therefore, an Advisory Council
may make a determination to terminate a Director, but this determination is
subject to the approval of the Board before the termination is final.
C.   Director Of Emergency Management: General Powers And Duties
   The Director, subject to the direction and control of the Advisory Council,
shall be executive head of the Department and pursuant to Indiana Code 10-14-3-
17(d)(2)(A) has direct responsibility for the organization, administration and
operation of the Department, including the following specific powers and
duties:
      1.   The Director, pursuant to Indiana Code 10-14-3-17(d)(2)(B),is
responsible to the chairman of the Advisory Council, and as such shall keep the
chairman fully informed on emergency management activities and shall provide
such reports to the Advisory Council if so directed by the chairman of the
Advisory Council.
      2.   The Director shall keep the Board fully informed on emergency
management activities.
      3.   The Director shall submit to the Advisory Council and the County
Commissioners a yearly report on the county’s comprehensive emergency
management, including mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery taken in
the previous year and planned and recommended for the year to come.
      4.   The Director shall ensure that all of the duties and
responsibilities of the Emergency Management Agency are completed.
      5.   The Director shall ensure that all county employees and rostered
volunteers with responsibilities as part of the Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan receive training in the functions that they are to perform
under the Plan.
      6.   The Director shall design and conduct exercises of the Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan, as required by the Indiana Department of Homeland
Security.
      7.   The Director shall ensure that the Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan addresses all hazards and includes all cities, towns and other
population centers within the county.
      8.   The Director shall submit to Indiana Department of Homeland Security
the assessment specified in IDHS’s required format and within IDHS’s required
time frame for submission.
      9.   The Director shall provide to the Indiana Department of Homeland
Security Executive Director annual reports and documentation as mandated.
      10.   The Director shall competently manage the department’s various
functions, including all financial, personnel, and logistic functions.
      11.   The Director shall timely obey the directives of superior state
authorities.
      12.   The Director shall ensure that the activities of the Department at
all times comport with Indiana Code 10-14-3 and other applicable statutes,
rules and county ordinances.
      13.   The Director shall develop an emergency operating center (“EOC”) as
a site from which key officials can direct and control operations during a
disaster or emergency.
      14.   The Director shall serve as the county’s representative to the
media for public information, public relations, and public education regarding
all phases of emergency management.
      15.   The Director shall assure coordination between county officials and
departments for all emergency management activities.
      16.   The Director shall maintain liaison and coordinate with all other
affected agencies, public and private.
      17.   The Director shall coordinate the recruitment and training of
volunteer personnel and agencies as needed to augment the personnel and
facilities of the county for emergency management purposes.
      18.   The Director shall seek, negotiate and recommend to the County
Commissioners mutual aid agreements with other public and private agencies for
emergency management purposes to ensure that the county will have access to the
resources and personnel that may be needed during an emergency or disaster..
The Director shall also take all required steps in accordance with such
agreements to facilitate the necessary requests for mutual aid or responses to
requests for mutual aid from the other parties to those agreements.
      19.   On behalf of the county, the Director may accept any offer of the
Federal Government to provide for the use of the county any services,
equipment, supplies, materials, or funds for emergency management purposes by
way of gift, grant or loan, when the Governor has approved such offer.
      20.   On behalf of the county, the Director may seek and accept from any
person, firm or corporation, any gratuitous offers to provide services,
equipment, supplies, materials, funds, or licenses or privileges to use real
estate or other premises, to the county for emergency management purposes.
      21.   The Director shall issue proper insignia and papers to emergency
management workers and other people directly concerned with emergency
management.
      22.   The Director shall coordinate the activities of emergency
management volunteers during emergency and non-emergency situations. The
Director shall ensure that all volunteers meet the criteria set forth in §
30.15 prior to accepting them as members of the Department.
      23.   The Director shall make rapid and accurate assessment of:
         (a)   Property damage;
         (b)   Personal injuries;
         (c)   Fatalities;
         (d)   Basic needs; and
         (e)   Special needs
      as soon as an emergency or disaster declaration has been made.
      24.   In addition to the powers and duties expressly provided above, the
Director shall be construed to have all powers and duties of a local emergency
management Director as provided under Indiana Code 10-14-3.
      25.   The Director shall write grant proposals and/or assist with the
writing of grant proposals to promote emergency management, public safety, and
homeland security objectives.
D.   Department Of Emergency Management: Establishment; Staffing; Oath; And
Prohibition of Political Activity
      1.   There is hereby established a Department of Emergency Management
within the executive branch of the county government for the purpose of
utilizing to the fullest extent possible the personnel and facilities of
existing county departments and agencies to prepare for and meet any disaster
as defined in §
30.15. The Director of Emergency Management shall be responsible for its
organization, administration and operation.
      2.   In the event of an emergency, the Department shall be assisted by
the employees, equipment and facilities of any other county departments or
agencies required under the Emergency Plan to participate in emergency
management activities at the request of the Director. The Department shall
consist of the following:
      (a)   The Director of Emergency Management.
      (b)   A Deputy Director appointed by the Director with the approval of
the Advisory Council. The Deputy Director shall fulfill the duties of the
Director in the absence or incapacity of the Director to serve; and assist the
Director in the performance of Director’s duties.
      (c)   During responses to an emergency, the Department will also consist
of Emergency management volunteers, as deemed necessary and appointed by the
Director. In addition to the other requirements in this Section, the Director
shall ensure that all volunteer personnel meet the following qualifications
before being placed on the roster as a member of the Department:
         (i)   Be at least eighteen (18) years of age or older;
         (ii)   Not be convicted of a felony; and
         (iii)   Have completed and have on file with the Department an
application form.
      (d)   Staff officers with responsibility for Communications and Warning,
Radiological, Health and Medical Care, Law Enforcement, Fire and Search and
Rescue, Public Works and Public Information in accordance with the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
      (e)   Such assistants, clerical help, and other employees as deemed
necessary as deemed necessary and appointed by the Director in accordance with
the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
      3.   Pursuant to Indiana Code 10-14-3-27(a), no person shall be employed
or associated in any capacity in any emergency management organization
established under §
30.15 who:
      (a)   Advocates a change by force or violence in the constitutional form
of the government of the United States or the overthrow of any government in
the United States by force or violence; or
      (b)   Has been convicted of or is under indictment or information
charging any subversive act against the United States.
      4.   Pursuant to Indiana Code 10-14-3-27(b), each individual who is
appointed to serve in an organization for emergency management shall, before
entering upon the individual’s duties, take a Loyalty Oath, in writing, before
a person authorized to administer oaths in Indiana.
      (a)   The loyalty oath shall be substantially as follows:
         “I,                                         do solemnly swear (or
affirm) that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States
and the Constitution of the State of Indiana against all enemies, foreign and
domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take
this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion;
and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about
to enter. And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I a
member of any political party or organization that advocates, the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this state by force or violence; and
that during such time as I am a member of the County Department of Emergency
Management I will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United
States or of this state by force or violence.”
      (b)   In accordance with Indiana Code 10-14-3-27(c), the Executive
Director of the Indiana Department of Homeland Security and the County
Emergency Management Director may administer this Loyalty Oath and may delegate
the authority to administer the Loyalty Oath to designated deputies and
assistants approved by the Executive Director of the Indiana Department of
Homeland Security.
      5.   Pursuant to Indiana Code 10-14-3-26, the Department shall not
participate in any form of political activity or be employed directly or
indirectly for political purposes. Political qualifications may not be a
consideration for appointment to the agency or a cause for dismissal except for
the subversive activities described in I.C. 10-14-3-27. Full-time employees of
the Department may not participate in political activities.
      6.   The County Council shall not have any power of approval over
particular candidates for any position within the Department, but the County
Council shall have general statutory powers to determine the numbers of
officers, deputies, and employees of county departments, classify positions,
and adopt schedules of compensation pursuant to Indiana Code 36-2-5-3(a).
Notwithstanding any other provision of §
30.15, with the exception of the Director, a compensated position may not be
established within the Department of Emergency Management nor shall any person
be appointed to such position without authorization and sufficient funding from
the County Council.
E.   Department Of Emergency Management: Duties
   The Department, subject to the direction and control of the Director, shall
prepare and implement the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, including
the following specific duties:
      1.   Prepare and distribute to all appropriate officials a clear and
complete written statement of the emergency responsibilities of all local
agencies and officials and the disaster chain of command in accordance with
Indiana Code 10-14-3-17(i).
      2.   Work closely with officers and employees of incorporated and
unincorporated areas of the county to develop a hazard mitigation program to
eliminate or reduce potential hazards.
      3.   Write, implement and make distribution of the County Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan, which shall conform to the guidelines contained in
the most current state and federal guidance documents and the requirements
established in §
30.15. As part of the preparation of this Plan, the Department shall:
      (a)    Identify and analyze the effects of hazards that threaten the
county.
      (b)   Inventory manpower and material resources from governmental and
private sector sources that would be available in a disaster or emergency.
      (c)   Establish a system to alert key officials in event of a disaster or
emergency.
      (d)   Identify resource deficiencies and work with appropriate officials
on measures to correct them.
      (e)   Develop and maintain an emergency communications system, thus
assuring proper functioning of emergency communications throughout the county,
including all cities and towns.
      (f)   Take all actions necessary to ensure the continuity of government
procedures and systems in the event of a disaster.
      (g)   Establish and maintain a shelter and reception and care system for
both people and animals.
      (h)   Develop a training program for emergency response personnel
ensuring that mitigation, training and exercising have been performed for all
such personnel.
      (i)   Coordinate with industry to develop and maintain industrial
emergency plans and capabilities in support of the Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan.
      4.   Update the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan as needed to keep
it current, as required by Indiana Code 10-14-3-17(h).
      5.   Develop a program to periodically test and exercise the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
F.   Department Of Emergency Management: Budget And Finance
      1.   The Emergency Management Advisory Council and the County
Commissioners shall advise the Director in the preparation of the Department’s
budget. The Emergency Management Advisory
Council is the appropriate forum for discussions with cities and towns
concerning their respective obligations to allocate portions of their budgets
toward these expenses.
      2.   The County Council shall appropriate such funds, as it may deem
necessary for the purpose of emergency management. Any funding received by the
county from cities and towns within the county for the budget of the Department
shall be deposited in the County General Fund.
      3.   All funds appropriated or otherwise available to the Department of
Emergency Management shall be administered by the Director.
G.   Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan: Formulation; Content And Adoption
      1.   A County Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, referred to as the
interjurisdictional disaster emergency plan by Indiana Code 10-14-3-17(h),
shall be adopted by resolution of the County Board of Commissioners. In the
preparation of this Plan, as it pertains to county organizations, it is the
intent that the services, equipment, facilities and personnel of all existing
departments and agencies shall be utilized to the fullest extent possible.
      2.   The Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan shall include, at
minimum, the following:
      (a)   An Administrative Section which includes
         (i)   Authorities and Directives.
         (ii)   Terms and Definitions.
         (iii)   Acronyms/Abbreviations.
         (iv)   Financial Management.
      (b)   A Hazards Specific Section which includes:
         (i)   Unique hazards.
         (ii)   Special Events.
      (c)   An Operations Section which includes:
         (i)   Coordination and Control Emergency Support Function
         (ii)   Communications and Warning Emergency Support Function
         (iii)   Public Information Emergency Support Function
         (iv)   Resource Management Emergency Support Function
         (v)   Information and Planning Emergency Support Function
      (d)   An Emergency Services Section which includes:
         (i)   Military Emergency Support Function
         (ii)   Law Enforcement Emergency Support Function
         (iii)   Firefighting Emergency Support Function
         (iv)   Transportation Emergency Support Function
         (v)   Health and Medical Emergency Support Function
         (vi)   Search and Rescue Emergency Support Function
         (vii)   Public Works/Engineering Emergency Support Function
      (e)   A Consequent Effects Section which includes:
         (i)   Evacuation Emergency Support function
         (ii)   Shelter/Mass Care Emergency Support Function
         (iii)   Damage Assessment Emergency Support Function
         (iv)   Hazardous Materials Emergency Support Function
         (v)   Radiological Protection Emergency Support Function
         (vi)   Energy Emergency Support Function
      3.   In addition, all emergency services departments within the county
shall:
      (a)   Develop Standard Operating Procedures, Standard Operating Guides
and checklists that are drafted subject to the requirements of the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
      (b)   Coordinate Standard Operating Procedures, Standard Operating Guides
and checklists with the Department of Emergency Management;
      (c)   Assure inclusion of the Standard Operating Procedures, Standard
Operating Guides and checklists within the county Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan;
      (d)   Perform the functions and duties assigned by the County
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
      (e)   Maintain their portion of the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan in a current state of readiness at all times.
H.   Jurisdiction: Department Of Emergency Management; County Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan; And Political Subdivisions
      1.   Except as provided by Sections 2.C. and 2.D., the jurisdiction of
the County Department of Emergency Management shall be comprehensive and
inclusive Countywide and effective in both the incorporated and unincorporated
areas of the county.
      2.   The jurisdiction and applicability of the County Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan, as adopted pursuant to Section 3.G., and the
exercise of any powers of the Principal Executive Officer of the County and of
the County Board of Commissioners under Section 4, shall be comprehensive and
inclusive countywide and effective in both the incorporated and unincorporated
areas of the county.
      3.   All political subdivisions in the county shall:
      (a)   If they develop an Emergency Management plan for their political
subdivision:
         (i)   Ensure that the plan is consistent with the requirements of the
County Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
         (ii)   Coordinate the development of the plan with the Department of
Emergency Management; and
         (iii)   Ensure inclusion of their plan as an Annex within the County
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
      (b)   Perform the functions and duties assigned by the County
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
      (c)   Maintain their portion of the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan in a current state of readiness at all times.
I.   Tests Of The Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; Other Emergency
Tests
      1.   Tests of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan may be
conducted at any time with or without prior notification to persons other than
the Director.
      2.   All emergency management tests, training or exercises conducted by
county officials shall be coordinated in advance with the Department.
J.   County Board Of Commissioners: General Administrative Powers And Duties
   In time of normal county operations, powers and duties of the County
Commissioners pertaining to emergency management shall be:
      1.   Maintaining general supervision over the planning and administration
for the Department;
      2.   Adopting the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
      3.   Coordinating emergency management activities consistent with the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
      4.   Making assignments of county personnel to emergency management
activities consistent with the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
      5.   Making assignments of county personnel to emergency management
duties in order to meet situations not covered in the normal duties and powers
of such agencies consistent with the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
      6.   Taking all necessary action in coordination with the Department to
conduct tests of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
      7.   Educating themselves as to their responsibilities under the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
SECTION 4   COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM: EMERGENCY POWERS, REGULATIONS
AND PROCEDURES
A.    Applicability Of Section
   This Section shall apply whenever:
      1.   The Governor, pursuant to Indiana Code 10-14-3-12 has declared a
disaster emergency affecting all or part of the county,
      2.   The Principal Executive Officer of the County, pursuant to Indiana
Code 10-14-3-29(a) and Section 4.C. hereof, is preparing to, or has declared a
local disaster emergency affecting all or part of the county, or
      3.   The County Board of Commissioners has implemented a test of the
County’s Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan and procedures in accordance
with and to the extent necessary or dispensable to such test.
B.   Special Emergency Powers And Duties Of Principal Executive Officer:
Declaration Of Local Disaster Emergency
      1.   In the event of an actual or threatened disaster emergency affecting
the county, if feasible, the Principal Executive Officer of the County shall
seek the advice and input of the Director as to the advisability of declaring a
local disaster emergency.
      2.   If the County Board of Commissioners, acting as the Principal
Executive Officer of the county, is the entity declaring the local disaster
emergency, then the statutory requirements contained in Indiana Code 36-2-2-
8 and Indiana Code 5-14-1.5-5(d) regarding special and emergency meetings of
the County Board of Commissioner must be met.
      3.   The Principal Executive Officer of the County may, in the event of
an actual or threatened disaster emergency affecting the county declare a local
disaster emergency, pursuant to Indiana Code 10-14-3-29(a). This declaration
shall:
      (a)   Be in writing.
      (b)   State the nature of the disaster.
      (c)   State the conditions that have brought the disaster about.
      (d)   State the area or areas threatened.
      (e)   State the area or areas to which the local disaster emergency
declaration applies (this may include the entire county or only designated
parts thereof).
      (f)   State the effective period of the local disaster emergency
declaration. The disaster declaration shall not be continued or renewed for a
period in excess of seven (7) days except by or with the consent of the County
Board of Commissioners.
      4.   The declaration of a local disaster emergency, as well as any
continuation or termination of such declaration shall be:
      (a)   Announced or disseminated to the general public by the best means
available,
      (b)   Filed promptly in the offices of the County Clerk; the County
Auditor, and the Clerk of any city or town located in the declared disaster
area, and
      (c)   Promptly transmitted to the State Emergency Operations Center
      5.   The declaration shall not be invalidated or rendered ineffective if
any of the filing and dissemination requirements cannot be complied with due to
the prevailing adverse circumstances.
      6.   Upon a declaration, the County’s Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan or such component parts thereof as may be relevant to the emergency shall
be activated and implemented.
C.   County Board Of Commissioners; Convention of Special Emergency Meeting
      1.   As allowed by Indiana Code 36-2-2-8 and Indiana Code 5-14-1.5-5(d),
a special meeting of the County Board of Commissioners shall be called as soon
as possible after the disaster emergency that affects the county has been
declared, either by the Governor or by the Principal Executive Officer of the
County, to perform their legislative and administrative functions as the
situation may demand.
      2.   As required by Indiana Code 36-2-2-8(b) and Indiana Code 5-14-1.5-5
(d), the following conditions must be met for this meeting:
      (a)   The notice for the meeting must include a specific statement of the
purpose of the meeting.
      (b)   News media that have requested notice of meetings must be given the
same notice as is given the members of the County Board of Commissioners.
      (c)   The public must be notified of this meeting by posting a copy of
the notice at the principal office of the County Board of Commissioners, or if
no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is to be held.
      (d)   The County Board of Commissioners may not conduct any business at
this meeting that is unrelated to the disaster emergency declaration.
      (e)   All other such requirements, applicable to a meeting called to deal
with an emergency.
      3.   In addition, such a meeting may:
      (a)   Be held in any convenient and available place.
      (b)   Continue without adjournment for the duration of the disaster
emergency.
      (c)   Be recessed for reasonable periods of time as necessary and
permitted by the circumstances.
D.   Principal Executive Officer: Special Emergency Powers And Duties
      1.   In the event that a disaster emergency has been declared that
affects all or part of the county, and a quorum of the County Board of
Commissioners cannot be assembled for purposes of the meeting needed under
Section 4.C., the Principal Executive Officer of the County shall have, on an
interim basis, all powers of the County Board of Commissioners and may take all
such actions with respect to the disaster emergency declaration that the County
Board of Commissioners would have been authorized to take.
      2.   When a quorum of the County Board of Commissioners is assembled,
these interim powers of the Principal Executive Officer of the County shall
cease.
E.   County Board of Commissioners: Special Emergency Powers And Duties
      1.   At the meeting convened under Section 4.C., the County Board of
Commissioners may exercise any of their normal executive and legislative powers
to the extent necessary to respond to the emergency.
      2.   In addition to the powers enumerated in Section 4.E. 1., the Board
may also exercise any of the following special and extraordinary powers:
      (a)   The County Board of Commissioners may extend the period of a local
disaster emergency declared by the Principal Executive Officer of the County,
pursuant to Section 4.B., to last more than 7 days, if necessary.
      (b)   The County Board of Commissioners may terminate the local disaster
emergency.
      (c)   The County Board of Commissioners may assemble and utilize the
County’s emergency management resources, including:
         (i)   Personnel of the Department of Emergency Management;
         (ii)   Participating emergency services; and
         (iii)   Any other County Department’s personnel and resources.
      (d)   The County Board of Commissioners may order volunteer forces which
have been activated pursuant to the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan to
the aid of the county, state or political subdivisions thereof as soon as
practicable. These volunteer forces shall be under the direction of the
Department of Emergency Management, who shall have the responsibility of
recommending such activation to the Board of Commissioners and recommending
when such activation of volunteer forces is no longer necessary.
      (e)   In order to successfully meet disaster emergencies, the County
Board of Commissioners may authorize the temporary emergency use of privately
owned equipment, facilities, supplies or other property, but only to the extent
permitted by Indiana Code 10-14-3-31 and subject to its provisions, including
its requirements for compensation.
      (f)   The County Board of Commissioners may order the evacuation of all
or part of the population from stricken areas of the county, and prescribe:
         (i)   Authorized and restricted routes of travel;
         (ii)   Authorized and restricted days, times and modes of
transportation; and
         (iii)   Authorized evacuation destinations.
      (g)   The County Board of Commissioners may make provision for
availability and use of temporary emergency housing, which housing need not
necessarily comply with any minimum housing standards, building or zoning
regulations, etc., which would govern the use and location of premises for
housing purposes during normal times.
      (h)   Except in accordance with Section 4.E.2.(i), the County Board of
Commissioners shall not suspend any provisions of ordinances or procedures,
which are mandated by statute.
      (i)   In the event of a disaster emergency that has been declared by the
Governor, the County Board of Commissioners, in accordance with Indiana Code
10-14-3-17(j)(5), may waive any procedures or requirements of statute or of
county ordinances reflecting statutory requirements and mandates, pertaining
to:
         (i)   The performance of public works.
         (ii)   The entering into contracts.
         (iii)   The incurring of obligations.
         (iv)   The employment of permanent and temporary workers.
         (v)   The utilization of volunteer workers.
         (vi)   The rental of equipment.
         (vii)   The purchase and distribution of supplies, materials and
facilities.
         (viii)   The appropriation and expenditure of public funds.
      (j)   During the disaster emergency, the County Board of Commissioners
may assign any emergency duties and functions to any county:
         (i)   Offices;
         (ii)   Departments; and
           (iii)   Agencies.
      (k)   Any unexpended and unencumbered monies budgeted and appropriated
but not otherwise dedicated by law to different purposes may, within the scope
of each major budget and appropriation category (major object classification),
be utilized and expended for the purpose of carrying out such special emergency
duties and functions.
      (l)   Pursuant to Indiana Code 10-14-3-22, the County Board of
Commissioners may make, amend, and rescind such orders, rules, and regulations
as may be necessary for emergency management purposes and to supplement the
carrying out of the provisions of §
30.15. Such orders, rules, and regulations:
         (i)   Cannot be inconsistent with any orders, rules, or regulations
promulgated by the Governor or by any State agency exercising a power delegated
to it by the Governor.
         (ii)   Cannot be inconsistent with the County’s emergency management
program or Emergency Plan.
         (iii)   Shall have full force and effect of law when filed in the
office of the County Clerk;
         (iv)   Are enforceable by any local or state law enforcing authority
in accordance with Indiana Code 10-14-3-24.
      (m)   The County Board of Commissioners or the County Emergency
Management Director may, in accordance with the County Emergency Management
Plan, request the State or the United States or their agencies and political
subdivisions to send aid (including financial assistance) if the situation is
beyond the control of the regular and emergency county forces and resources.
      3.    All actions taken by the County Board of Commissioners under this
Section shall be:
      (a)   Adopted by ordinance or resolution pursuant Indiana Code 10-14-3-
22;
      (b)   Consistent with, and subordinate to, any actions, orders, or
regulations made by the Governor or a state agency implementing the State
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
F.   Officers And Employees Of Incorporated And Unincorporated Areas Of The
County: General Duties During Emergency
   During a declared disaster emergency, all officers and employees of
incorporated and unincorporated areas of the County shall:
      1.   Cooperate with and give active support to the County Board of
Commissioners and the County Emergency Management Director.
      2.   Comply with all orders, rules and regulations issued pursuant to §
30.15 by the County Board of Commissioners or the County Emergency Management
Director.
G.   Noncompliance With Emergency Orders, Rules And Regulations: Obstruction Or
Impersonation Of Emergency Management Authorities; Penalties And Enforcement
      1.   Whenever §
30.15 applies, it shall be unlawful and a penal ordinance violation for any
person to:
      (a)   Willfully obstruct, hinder or delay the County Board of
Commissioners, the Director of Emergency Management, participating emergency
services, authorized emergency management volunteers or other authorities from
implementing, carrying out and enforcing the Emergency Plan;
      (b)   Fail to observe, abide by, and comply with any emergency management
duties, orders, regulations and procedures as made applicable to such person by
the appropriate authorities; or
      (c)   Falsely wear or carry identification as a member of the County
Department of Emergency Management or to otherwise falsely identify or purport
to be a county emergency management authority.
      2.   Any person who commits an offense as described above shall be liable
to a fine of $500.00 for each such offense.
      3.   Any regular or reserve police officer of Indiana or any of its
political subdivisions is hereby empowered to issue and serve a civil citation
against any person found to be committing or to have committed an offense
described above.
H.   Limitation Of Liability During Disaster Emergency Or Emergency Or
Emergency Management Tests
   During a declared disaster emergency, the county, the county’s assigned
personnel, participating emergency services, and rostered emergency management
volunteers shall be immune from liability to the full extent provided by
Indiana Code 10-14-3-15 and any other applicable law.
I.   Compensation for Property Commandeered Or Used During Disaster Emergency
   Pursuant to Indiana Code 10-14-3-31, compensation for property shall be paid
only if the property was commandeered or otherwise used in coping with a
disaster emergency and its use or destruction was ordered by the Governor or a
member of the disaster emergency forces of Indiana. Any person claiming
compensation for the use, damage, loss, or destruction of such property shall
make a claim for it. This claim shall be filed and adjudicated as provided in
Indiana Code 32-24.
SECTION 6:   COUNTY WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY POWERS, REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES
A.   Application and Definitions
   Application:   Section 30.15 shall apply to users of water in White County
including all persons, firms, partnerships, corporations, companies or
organizations using private wells located within White County and to all
persons, firms, partnerships, corporations, companies or organizations
connected to any municipal water system or using water therefrom (hereafter,
users).
   Definitions:
   “Demand-side mitigation and response strategies” focus on actions that
utilities or withdrawal facilities can take to promote or enforce reductions in
customer water demands.
   “Drought Advisory” is the lowest level of water shortage where conditions
exist under which voluntary conservation measures may become appropriate due to
decreased supplies in reservoirs or other circumstances that have reduced the
amount of treated water available to customers.
   “Drought Watch” is the next higher level of water shortage where worsening
conditions exist under which voluntary conservation measures become necessary
due to decreased supplies in reservoirs or other circumstances that have more
severely reduced the amount of treated water available to customers.
   “Drought Warning” is the next higher level of water shortage where
conditions exist under which voluntary conservation measures are no longer
adequate and mandatory water conservation measures are appropriate due to
severely decreased supplies in reservoirs or other more severe circumstances
that have reduced the amount of treated water available to customers.
   “Drought Emergency” is the highest level of water shortage. It means
conditions exists under which more restrictive mandatory conservation measures
are clearly necessary to protect the health, safety and well-being of citizens
due to levels in the reservoirs having been reduced to less than their designed
drawdown curves, and where groundwater wells are no longer functioning properly
due to reduced groundwater levels or the existence of other circumstances that
have severely reduced the amount of treated water available to customers.
   “Drought mitigation activities” refer to actions taken in advance of a
drought that reduce potential drought-related impacts when the event occurs.
   “Mandatory Conservation” means compliance with the mandatory imposition of
water use restrictions designed to reduce certain kinds and types of water use.
   “Treated Water” means water treated in a manner that it is suitable for
human consumption or for another designated use.
   “Water Rationing” means compliance with the county’s imposition of
restrictions that will reduce demand for water to a maximum allowable quantity
within a finite time interval (e.g.; gallons per person per day).
   “Water Management Strategy” refers to a plan adopted by the county together
with its water resource manager or utility to reduce the demand upon both raw
water supply and treated or finished water.
   “Voluntary Conservation” means compliance with the county’s request to its
citizens to reduce water use.
B.   Levels of Water Shortage
   There are four, increasingly severe levels of the County’s Water Shortage
Program, with Level IV being the least severe and Level I being the most
severe. The County’s Water Shortage Program provides for a stair-step approach
to drought mitigation and water shortage planning and response efforts. Before
they are implemented, measures to conserve water and reduce unnecessary water
use will be carefully considered by decision makers for technical feasibility,
effectiveness, cost effectiveness, the overall impact to the environment and
public acceptance. These levels are described below with those interim response
measures identified as most appropriate for each level of water shortage.
      1.   Level IV: Drought Advisory
      a.   During a declared Drought Advisory, drought monitoring and
assessment efforts begin with questionnaires and surveys being provided by
appropriate county officials to water facilities. This information will assist
decision makers to decide whether additional response measures are required and
whether it is appropriate for decision makers to declare an increase or
decrease in the current level of water shortage.
      b.   During a declared Drought Advisory, surface and groundwater
monitoring begins with monthly well reports being collected by municipal water
utilities in White County. This information will be used to assist decision
makers to decide whether additional response measures are required and whether
it is appropriate to move from this level (Drought Advisory) to the next level
(Drought Watch)
      c.   During a declared Drought Advisory, county officials shall implement
a public awareness plan, in cooperation with local media outlets.
      d.   During a declared Drought Advisory, county officials will determine
which areas of the county are most vulnerable.
      e.   During a declared Drought Advisory, county officials may request
voluntary conservation of essential and domestic water use by 5%.
      f.   During a declared Drought Advisory, utilities or water withdrawal
facilities may employ demand-side mitigation and response strategies to promote
or enforce reductions in customer water demands.
      2.   Level III: Drought Watch
      a.   During a declared Drought Watch, county officials will identify any
resource deficiencies that may aggravate the effects of the drought and any
corrective actions that may be taken now to ameliorate those adverse effects.
      b.   During a declared Drought Watch, county officials will continue
surface and groundwater monitoring efforts and will continue to require bi-
weekly well reports. This information will be used to assist county decision
makers in deciding whether additional response measures are required and
whether to move from this level (Drought Watch) to the next level (Drought
Warning).
      c.   During a declared Drought Watch, county officials will monitor and
assess the potential impacts on the county’s agriculture, economy,
environmental and natural resources.
      d.   During a declared Drought Watch, county officials will increase the
effort to inform the public of the potential water shortage problem and its
potential impact on water users.
      e.   During a declared Drought Watch, county officials may institute
Voluntary Conservation Measures, including:
      1.   Setting overall water conservation goals.
      2.   Reduce Operating hours of swimming pools, car washes and
recreational activities involving water.
      3.   Limit outdoor watering to the hours of 6:00 p.m.— 9:00 a.m.
      4.   Limit irrigation of fairways on any golf course and all ball/
athletic fields restrict to sprinkling/irrigation to the hours of 12:01 a.m. —
5:00 a.m.
      5.   Normally scheduled fire hydrant testing is restricted to 50% of the
schedule.
      6.   Request voluntary conservation to achieve 10-15% reduction in
consumption.
      7.   Prohibit certain water usage at anytime, i.e. Washing sidewalks,
driveways, parking areas, tennis courts, or any hard surfaces except for
sanitary or safety purposes.
      8.   Filling or re-filling of swimming pools.
      9.   Analyze benefits to additional surcharges (where applicable) for
water usage above certain predetermined percentages.
      3.   Level II: Drought Warning
      a.   During a declared Drought Warning, county officials may initiate
steps to modify reservoir releases to enhance stream flows during critical
recreational times of the day.
      b.   During a declared Drought Warning, county officials will continue
surface and groundwater monitoring and may require weekly well reports. This
information will be used to assist county decision makers to consider whether
to move from this level (Drought Warning) to the next level (Drought
Emergency).
      c.   During a declared Drought Warning, county officials may activate the
County Emergency Operations Center and/or a JIC to inform the public of water
use restrictions.
      d.   During a declared Drought Warning, county officials may impose
mandatory Conservation Measures including:
         i.   More stringent conservation goals of 20-25%
      1.   Water served for drinking purposes at restaurants are restricted to
be served only as requested by customer.
      2.   Residents asked to forego installation of new sod, seeding, and
other landscapes.
         ii.   Prohibit certain water usage at any time:
      1.   Residential watering of trees, shrubs, lawns or flower gardens.
      2.   Washing of personal vehicles except at a commercial car wash.
      3.   Watering of golf course fairways.
      4.   All non-state mandated line flushing by utilities and fire
departments.
         iii.   Implement drought surcharges for all customer classes
(residential/commercial/industrial).
      4.   Level I: Drought Emergency
      a.   During a declared Drought Emergency, the County Emergency Management
Director may activate the County Emergency Operations Center and/or a JIC to
inform the public of restrictions, if not done previously.
      b.   During a declared Drought Emergency, the County Emergency Management
Director will continue surface and groundwater monitoring and continue to
require well reports every 48 hours.
      c.   During a declared Drought Emergency, the County Commissioners may
impose mandatory conservation measures designed to obtain a 25% or greater
reduction in water usage.
      d.   When a local utility faces an imminent threat of running short of
water for essential purposes, a local emergency may be declared under I.C. 10-
14-3-29 due to the threat to human and animal lives.
      e.   During a declared Drought Emergency, the County Commissioners may
impose rationing of water to obtain a 25% or greater reduction in water usage.
C.   Voluntary Conservation
   During a Drought Advisory or a Drought Watch, as declared by the County
Emergency Management Director and as communicated to the public through the
media, users of water shall be requested to reduce water consumption by
practicing voluntary conservation measures.
   Voluntary Conservation Measures
   Practices that conserve water should be observed at all times and should
become increasingly followed during a drought watch or a drought advisory.
Examples of conservation measures include:
      a.   Judiciously sprinkling, watering, or irrigating shrubbery, trees,
grass, ground covers, plants, vines gardens, vegetables, or any other
vegetation; Eliminating wasteful sprinkling of impervious surfaces, such as
streets and sidewalks;
      b.   Limiting water use while washing trucks, trailers, mobile homes,
railroad cars or any other type of mobile equipment;
      c.   Limiting water use while cleaning sidewalks, driveways, paved areas,
or other outdoor surfaces;
      d.   Repairing or replacing leaking water fixtures and service lines;
      e.   Using appliances such as clothes washers and dishwashers only when
they are full;
      f.   Turning off the water while brushing teeth or shaving;
      g.   Using a higher lawnmower setting to provide natural ground shade and
promote the soil’s water retention;
      h.   Washing cars with a bucket of soapy water and using a nozzle to stop
the flow of water from the hose between rinsing; and
      i.   Covering swimming pools when not in use to reduce evaporation.
D.   Declaration of Need and Authorized Officials
   Upon determining that the public water system is in a condition of a Drought
Advisory, the County Emergency Management Director shall declare a Drought
Advisory to establish and announce the appropriate voluntary response,
reporting requirements and conservation measures. Such declaration shall be
provided to all available media outlets and shall identify or contain the
duration thereof. The duration may be identified as “until a modification or
completion of the existing water shortage condition has been declared.”
   Upon determining that the public water system is in a condition of a Drought
Watch, the County Commissioners shall declare a Drought Watch to establish and
announce the appropriate voluntary response and conservation measures during
the Drought Watch condition. Such declaration shall identify or contain the
duration thereof. The duration may be identified as “until a modification or
completion of the existing water shortage condition has been declared.”
   Upon determining that the public water system is in a condition of a Drought
Warning, the County Commissioners shall declare a Drought Warning to establish
and announce the appropriate mandatory response and conservation measures
during the Drought Warning condition. Such declaration shall identify or
contain the duration thereof. The duration may be identified as “until a
modification or completion of the existing water shortage condition has been
declared.”
   Upon determining that the public water system is in a condition of a Drought
Emergency, the County Commissioners shall declare a Drought Emergency, in
accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-29, to establish the appropriate mandatory
response and conservation measures during the emergency. The Drought Emergency
declaration shall identify or contain the duration thereof in accordance with
I.C. 10-14-3-29.
E.   Mandatory Conservation
   During a Drought Warning or a Drought Emergency, users shall be prohibited
from selected water uses subject to such reasonable terms, times and conditions
as the County Commissioners shall adopt in the implementing declaration. During
a Drought Emergency, any water utility provider with operations and customers
in this county may also implement price surcharges and/or conservation pricing
policies, in consultation with elected officials.
F.   Rationing
   In addition to the aforesaid mandatory conservation measures, during a
Drought Emergency, public water systems located in this county are authorized
to limit residential, business, commercial, agricultural and industrial
customers to the average daily amount of water they used during the same month
last year less 25 percent, in consultation with elected officials.
G.   Exceptions
   When rationing is imposed, the County Commissioners may, within the Drought
Emergency Declaration, establish such rationing exemptions as are necessary to
provide for the maintenance of adequate health, safety, and sanitary
conditions.
H.   Notice
   During a Drought Advisory or a Drought Watch, notice of the need for
voluntary conservation measures shall be issued by the County Emergency
Management Director to a local newspaper of general circulation and by other
means such as radio and television as deemed appropriate by the County
Emergency Management Director. Notice shall be effective upon issuance.
   During a Drought Warning or a Drought Emergency, notice of mandatory
conservation or rationing shall be issued by the County Emergency Management
Director to a local newspaper of general circulation and by other means such as
radio and television as deemed appropriate by the County Emergency Management
Director. Notice shall be effective upon publication.
I.   Enforcement
   Any user who violates Section 6E or 6F of this appendix may be punished by a
fine of not more than $ 100.00 for the first offense, $200.00 for the second
offense and $500.00 for each subsequent offense during the same Drought Warning
or Drought Emergency in accordance with I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B). Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
SECTION 6:   COUNTY TRAVEL RESTRICTION PROGRAM, POWERS AND PROCEDURES
A.   Application
   Section 30.15 shall be known as the Local Disaster Emergency Declaration
Ordinance of White County, Indiana and shall apply to all roads, highways or
right-of-way maintained by the county highway department (“Roads”). The
mandatory provisions of the ordinance and of any Local Disaster Emergency
issued pursuant to the ordinance, including the prohibitions on travel and the
penalties for violating those prohibitions shall not apply to streets
maintained by a city or town within the county nor to a state highway
maintained by the Indiana Department of Transportation nor to a federal
interstate highway situated within the county.
B.   Procedure
   The Board, after consultation with:
      a.   The County Emergency Management Advisory Council;
      b.   The County Sheriff;
      c.   The County Emergency Management/ Homeland Security Director; and
      d.   The County Highway Superintendent, if available, or the respective
representative designated by each as the person to consult in his/her absence
for the purpose of recommending a declaration of local disaster emergency, may
declare a local disaster emergency which may also contain a “warning level”
travel advisory by executive order when, in the Board’s judgment, by majority
rule, such order would be appropriate under I.C. 10-14-3-29 and in the best
interest of the public safety and welfare of the residents of White County,
Indiana.
   If only one member of the Board is available to sign the declaration of
local disaster emergency, he/she can declare a local disaster emergency if he
or she has obtained and documented the verbal or written concurrence of at
least one other board member.
   If, with or without the issuance of a declaration of local disaster
emergency, the Board or the Emergency Management Agency Director determines
that conditions require an “Advisory” or “Watch” level of travel advisor)”, the
Board, by majority rule or the Emergency Management Agency Director, upon
written notice to the Board may issue and “advisory” or a “watch” travel
advisory.
   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29.5, a “warning” level travel advisory may be
issued only after or as a part of a declaration of local disaster emergency.
Such emergency shall continue in effect until the above mentioned Board members
and/or Officials or their respective designees who declared the emergency
thereafter determine an emergency no longer exists and terminate the emergency
order.
   The Board may declare a “warning” level travel advisory upon its
determination that the conditions are appropriate for the issuance of a local
disaster emergency under I.C. 10-14-3-29, and the further determination that
the criteria set forth in Section C, below, have been met:
C.   Local Travel Advisories
   A local travel advisory shall be declared in accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-
29.5 and §
30.15. The purpose of a local travel advisory is to keep the residents of White
County, Indiana informed of the weather and county road conditions, and to
assist the White County Highway Department in the clearing of the county
roadways by eliminating stranded vehicles:
      C.1   Advisory Level Travel Advisory
      This level may be declared when routine travel or activities may be
restricted in areas of the county because of a hazardous situation; citizens
should use caution or avoid these areas. Schools and businesses may begin to
implement their emergency action plans.
      C.2   Watch Level Travel Advisory
      This level may be declared when conditions are threatening to the safety
of the public. Only essential travel is recommended (i.e. to and from work,
emergency situations, etc.). At this
level, emergency action plans should be implemented by businesses, schools,
government agencies and other organizations.
      C.3   Warning Level Travel Advisory
      This level may be declared when roads have become impassable and the
White County Highway Department is not able to keep the roadways cleared due to
extreme weather conditions such as a severe snow fall, high drifts or blizzard
like conditions are present. Travel may be restricted to emergency management
workers ONLY and essential emergency travel by members of the public as the
Board may further direct, such as privately employed health care workers.
Further restrictions that the Board deems necessary may be included within the
local disaster declaration.
D.   Publication
   Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing, or terminating a local
disaster emergency shall be given prompt and general publicity and shall be
filed promptly in the office of the clerk of the political subdivision pursuant
to I.C. 10-14-3-22(b)(2). Publication and broadcast of an Advisory, Watch or
Warning Level Travel advisory shall be made or caused to be made by the Board
or other officials designating the level of travel advisory using a press
release to all law enforcement agencies fire departments, hospitals and news
media in the county. The declaration shall be promptly forwarded to the Indiana
Department of Homeland Security and shall be kept on file by the White County
Emergency Management Agency/Department of Homeland Security, County Clerk and
County Auditor.
E.   Exemptions
   Vehicles which shall be exempt from the travel and parking restrictions
imposed in a travel advisory pursuant to §
30.15 shall include medical assistance, law enforcement, fire department,
emergency management, public utility, and fuel hauling vehicles, and employees
of any of the above exempt services, if engaged in performing their respective
duties. Any other vehicles violating §
30.15 or any of the parking restrictions contained in local declaration of
disaster emergency or a “warning” travel advisory are subject to removal by
towing or other means at the expense of the owner of the vehicle, when such
towing and/or removal is deemed necessary by a duly authorized representative
of any one or more of the following; the County Highway Department, the County
Sheriffs Department, a State Conservation Officer, or the Indiana State Police.
F.   Penalties
   Any persons violating any provisions of §
30.15 or the vehicle use or parking restrictions contained in a local
declaration of disaster emergency or a “warning” travel advisory shall be
guilty of the commission of an infraction and may be fined any sum not to
exceed $100.00 and such shall be enforceable in any court of law, duly
authorized by Indiana state law, and in addition to such fine the court shall
be authorized to direct the violator to repay the county any monetary losses or
expenses incurred in the incident.
(Ord. 13-07-01-01, passed 7-1-2013)
APPENDIX B: NOTICE UNDER THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT
   In accordance with the requirements of Title II of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 (“ADA”), White County, Indiana, will not discriminate
against qualified individuals with disabilities on the basis of disability in
its services, programs, or activities.
   Employment: White County does not discriminate on the basis of disability in
its hiring or employment practices and complies with all regulations
promulgated by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission under Title I
of the ADA.
   Effective Communication: White County will generally, upon request, provide
appropriate aids and services leading to effective communication for qualified
persons with disabilities so they can participate equally in White County
programs, services, and activities, including qualified sign language
interpreters, documents in Braille, and other ways of making information and
communications accessible to people who have speech, hearing, or vision
impairments.
   Modifications to Policies and Procedures: White County will make all
reasonable modifications to policies and programs to ensure that people with
disabilities have an equal opportunity to enjoy all of its programs, services,
and activities. For example, individuals with service animals are welcomed in
White County offices, even where pets are generally prohibited.
   Anyone who requires an auxiliary aid or service for effective communication,
or a modification of policies or procedures to participate in a program,
service, or activity of White County should contact the office of the ADA
Coordinator, Michael Kyburz at 219-984-5851 or 574-870-1435, as soon as
possible but no later than one week before the scheduled event.
   The ADA does not require White County to take any action that would
fundamentally alter the nature of its programs or services, or impose an undue
financial or administrative burden.
   Complaints that a program, service, or activity of White County is not
accessible to persons with disabilities should be directed to the ADA
Coordinator, Michael Kyburz at 219-984-5851 or 574-870-1435.
   White County will not place a surcharge on a particular individual with a
disability or any group of individuals with disabilities to cover the cost of
providing auxiliary aids/services or reasonable modifications of policy, such
as retrieving items from locations that are open to the public but are not
accessible to persons who use wheelchairs.
(Ord. 12-12-17-01, passed 12-17-2012)
Appendix C: Grievance Procedure
This Grievance Procedure is established to meet the requirements of the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (“ADA”). It may be used by anyone who
wishes to file a complaint alleging discrimination on the basis of disability
in the provision of services, activities, programs, or benefits by White
County, Indiana. White County's Personal Policy governs employment-related
complaints of disability discrimination.
The complaint should be in writing and contain information about the alleged
discrimination such as name, address, phone number of complainant and location,
date, and description of the problem. Alternative means of filing complaints,
such as personal interviews or a tape recording of the complaint will be made
available for persons with disabilities upon request.
The complaint should be submitted by the grievant and/or his/her designee as
soon as possible but no later than 60 calendar days after the alleged violation
to:
Michael Kyburz
ADA Coordinator
White County, Indiana
P.O. Box 6
Reynolds, Indiana 47980
219-984-5851 Office; or 574-870-1435 Cell
Within 15 calendar days after receipt of the complaint, the ADA Coordinator or
his designee will meet with the complainant to discuss the complaint and the
possible resolutions. Within 15 calendar days of the meeting, the ADA
Coordinator or his designee will respond in writing, and where appropriate, in
a format accessible to the complainant, such as large print, Braille, or audio
tape. The response will explain the position of White County and offer options
for substantive resolution of the complaint.
If the response by ADA Coordinator or his designee does not satisfactorily
resolve the issue, the complainant and/or his/her designee may appeal the
decision within 15 calendar days after receipt of the response to the White
County Commissioners, or their designee.
Within 15 days after receipt of the appeal, the White County Commissioners will
meet with the complainant to discuss the complaint and possible resolutions.
Within 15 calendar days after the meeting the White County Commissioners will
respond in writing, and, where appropriate, in a format accessible to the
complainant, with a final resolution of the complaint.
All written complaints received by the ADA Coordinator or his designee, appeals
to the White County Commissioners, and responses from these two offices will be
retained by the White County Commissioners for at least three (3) years.
(Ord. 12-12-17-01, passed 12-17-2012)
CHAPTER 31: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
   
31.01   Credit cards
   
31.02   Innkeeper’s tax
   
31.03   Pre-payment procedures
   
31.04   Copy fees
   
31.05   Purchasing agency and agents
   
31.06   Dishonored checks
   
31.07   Police vehicle inspections
   
31.08   Firearms qualifications training fees
   
31.09   Investment policy
   
31.10   Internal control standards
   
31.11   Real estate document transfer fee
   
31.12   County adjusted gross income tax (CAGIT)
   
31.13   Capital improvement plan
   
31.14   Economic development
   
31.15   Purchasing rules and policies
   
31.16   Grant management process
§ 31.01 CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes the usage of county
purchasing cards.
   (B)   All purchasing card holders shall receive and acknowledge in writing
the terms of the Purchasing Card Policy and Procedure Manual. Per the manual,
the Purchasing Card Coordinator may withdraw authorization to use the county
purchasing card and require the return of the county purchasing card at any
time for any reason.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners hereby authorizes claim payment in advance
of Board allowance for payment for purchases within the regulations of the
county’s Purchasing Card Policy and Procedure Manual.
   (D)   This section shall be effective upon its passage.
(Ord. 13-06-03-01, passed 6-3-2013)
§ 31.02 INNKEEPER’S TAX.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established a White County Innkeeper's
Tax.
   (B)   Tax on lodging authorized; rate. A gross innkeeper's tax of 5% shall
be imposed upon every person engaged in the business of renting or furnishing
any room or rooms, lodgings or accommodations in any of the following in the
county in which lodging is regularly furnished for a consideration. The gross
innkeeper's tax shall be collected on rentals for periods of less than 30 days.
      (1)   Hotel;
      (2)   Motel;
      (3)   Inn;
      (4)   Tourist cabin;
      (5)   Campground space (both primitive and improved);
      (6)   Resort; or
      (7)   Other building or structure.
   (C)   Collection. The tax shall be collected and remitted to the County
Treasurer on a monthly basis. The tax shall be paid to the County Treasurer not
more than 20 days after the end of the month the tax is collected.
   (D)   Retention, distribution. The tax levy will be imposed and the revenues
from the levy will be retained by the county. The County Council and Board of
Commissioners shall establish a County Promotion Fund and a separate Lake
Enhancement Fund. The County Treasurer shall deposit all monies received from
the county innkeeper's tax into said County Promotion Fund and Lake Enhancement
Fund in a manner and proportions as set forth in I.C. 6-9-10.5-7 and 6-9-10.5-
8.
   (E)   Failure to collect, penalties. Failure to collect and remit tax shall
be enforceable with the same penalties as failure to collect and remit state
sales tax, which include, but are not limited to, personal liability, penalties
and interest, and criminal penalties.
   (F)   Records, inspections. All records of a person or entity that have
collected or that should have collected the innkeeper's tax shall be kept open
for examination at any reasonable time by the Innkeeper's Tax Commission or the
Commission's agent(s) or designated representative(s).
(Ord. 19-0-19-05, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 31.03 PRE-PAYMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The following categories are designated for pre-approved or pre-
payment procedures:
      (1)   License or permit fees;
      (2)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (3)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (4)   Payroll;
      (5)   State or federal taxes;
      (6)   Conference registrations approved by the Board of Commissioners;
and
      (7)   Postage.
   (B)   Pursuant to Indiana Code, each payment must be fully itemized and each
invoice or bill certified by the County Auditor. The pre-approved or pre-paid
claim must be advertised and approved at the next scheduled meeting of the
County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 02-04-01-01, passed 4-1-2002)
§ 31.04 COPY FEES.
   (A)   Uniform fee for xerographic copies. All offices of the county (not
otherwise covered by statute or ordinance) shall henceforth charge a uniform
fee for standard size (eight and one-half inches by 11 inches) photocopies of
public records; the fee shall be $0.10, as adjusted from time to time by the
appropriate board(s), for each page. The per page fee shall be $0.15 for legal
size (eight and one-half inches by 14 inches) photocopies and $0.25, as
adjusted from time to time by the appropriate board(s), for double size (11
inches by 17 inches) photocopies.
   (B)   Blueprint or oversized photocopies of public records.
      (1)   The fees are as follows:
 
Blueprint 18 x 24 inch $0.50, as adjusted from time to time by the appropriate
                       board(s)
Blueprint 24 x 36 inch $1, as adjusted from time to time by the appropriate
                       board(s)
Photocopy 18 x 24 inch $0.75, as adjusted from time to time by the appropriate
                       board(s)
Photocopy 24 x 36 inch $1.50, as adjusted from time to time by the appropriate
                       board(s)
 
      (2)   Other oversized photocopies and blueprints at $0.25 per square
foot, as adjusted from time to time by the appropriate board(s).
   (C)   Other copies.
      (1)   For copies produced in a format other than photocopies, including,
but not limited to, computer tapes, disks, CDs or microfilm, the fee shall be
equal to the actual cost of copying the record, as charged by the third party
provider.
      (2)   Certification fees for copies of public records shall be in
addition to copy fees.
   (D)   Postage fees. Those requests for copies from an office subject to this
section received through the U.S. mail shall be charged postage for the return
of those items requested at the prevailing rate per ounce established by the
U.S. Postal Service for first class postage, along with the fee for the number
of pages requested. If the requester provides the appropriate amount of postage
in advance with the copy request, then no postage shall be assessed upon the
request for copies.
   (E)   Reasonable response time to request.
      (1)   The county office/department from which the request for xerographic
copies is made shall have reasonable opportunity to provide the requested
information and shall make a reasonable effort to do so taking into account the
following factors: (for example, but not limited to) available staffing,
equipment and the volume of information requested. Compilation and copying of
public documents may not unreasonably interfere with the business of the public
agency. Depending upon the types of information sought, such office/department
may permit individuals requesting information to make its own search for
documents and to make its own xerographic copies of such information; however,
in such cases, the fee outlined in division (A) above shall be charged.
      (2)   No request for records may be denied because the person making such
request refuses to state the purpose of the request, unless an applicable state
or federal statute requires such condition.
   (F)   Basis of charges for booklets, pamphlets and folded maps. In the event
any county department provides information in booklet or pamphlet or folded map
form, the booklet or pamphlet or folded map shall be provided to the public at
the actual unit price or for the printing of the booklet or pamphlet or folded
map, rounded to the next even dollar.
   (G)   Copy fees for booklet and pamphlets. Xerographic copy fees or fees
collected for booklets, pamphlets or folded maps, as required by this section,
shall be deposited with the County Auditor not less than monthly; and
accordingly, all such collected fees shall be deposited into the General Fund
of the county.
   (H)   Facsimile copies.
      (1)   For use of fax machine, to send, the cost shall be $1 for the first
five pages and $0.50 thereafter, as adjusted from time to time by the
appropriate board(s).
      (2)   To send to 800, 888, 877 or any other toll-free numbers, the cost
shall be $0.10 per page, as adjusted from time to time by the appropriate board
(s). To receive, the cost shall be $0.10 per page, as adjusted from time to
time by the appropriate board(s).
   (I)   Passage. This section shall be in full force and effect upon passage
and any publication that may be required of the same by law.
(Ord. 99-11-15-2, passed 11-15-1999)
§ 31.05 PURCHASING AGENCY AND AGENTS.
   (A)   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States. Supplies
manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all county purchases
and shall be purchased unless the county determines that:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceed
by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparable priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
   (B)   Offers.
      (1)   Protection of offers; status of documents as public records.
         (a)   Protection of offers prior to opening. The purchasing agent
shall deliver all offers to the County Auditor, who shall retain all offers
received in a secure location prior to the date and time at which offer will be
opened in order to prevent disclosure of the contents prior to the opening of
the offers.
         (b)   Unobstructed evaluation of offers. After offers have been
opened, the County Auditor shall be responsible for maintaining the offers in
such a manner as to permit evaluation of the offers by the persons responsible
for evaluating the offers.
         (c)   Public records status of bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be available for public inspection and coping after
the time of the bid opening. The County Auditor shall maintain a record for
each invitation to bid which shall contain the name and address of each bidder,
the amount of each bid and any other information by required by I.C. 5-22 and
the rules adopted by the purchasing agency.
         (d)   Register of proposals. The County Auditor shall prepare a
register of proposals for each request for proposals issued which shall contain
information concerning the proposals available for public inspection and
copying. Proposals may not be disclosed.
      (2)   Discussions with offerors responding to a request for proposals.
The purchasing agent may conduct discussions with, and best and final offers
may be obtained from responsible offerors who submit proposals determined to be
reasonably susceptible of being selected for a contract award.
      (3)   Delay of opening offers. When the Board of Commissioners makes a
written determination that it is the county’s best interests, offers may be
opened after the time stated in the solicitation. The date, time and place of
rescheduled opening must be announced at the time and place of the originally
scheduled opening.
      (4)   Evidence of financial responsibility.
         (a)   Purchases less than $25,000. The purchasing agent may not
require evidence of financial responsibility when the estimated cost of a
purchase is less than $25,000.
         (b)   Purchases between $25,000 and $100,000. The solicitation may
include a requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial
responsibility. If evidence of financial responsibility is required, the
solicitation must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a
bond or certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated
cost of the purchase.
         (c)   Purchases over $100,000. The solicitation shall include a
requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility and
must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or
certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated costs of
the purchase.
         (d)   Small business set-asides. The purchasing agent may determine
that no evidence of financial responsibility shall be required for a small
business set-aside purchase.
      (5)   Use of RFP for purchases of designated types of supplies.
         (a)   The county determines that:
            1.   It is either not practicable or not advantageous to purchase
certain types of supplies by sealed competitive bidding; and
            2.   Receiving proposals is the preferred method for purchasing
certain types of supplies;
         (b)   The purchasing agency may, from time to time, determine in
writing the type of supplies which may be purchased by receiving proposals.
      (6)   Modification and termination of contracts.
         (a)   Price adjustments. The purchasing agent may include provisions
to permit price adjustments in a purchase contract. The following provisions
for price adjustments may included:
            1.   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement on a fixed
price adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon
after the beginning of performance as possible;
            2.   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices specified in
the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
            3.   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to
the events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee,
all as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
            4.   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contracting parties may mutually agreed upon; or
            5.   In the absence of agreement by the parties, price adjustments
must be computed by a unilateral determination by the governmental body of the
costs attributable to the events or situations under such clauses with
adjustment of profit or fee, all as computed by the governmental body in
accordance with applicable rules adopted by the governmental body.
         (b)   Adjustments in time of performance. The purchasing agent may
include provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of
performance under the contract.
         (c)   Unilateral rights of county. The purchasing agent may include in
a purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of the county
to order changes in the work within the scope of the contract or to order
temporary work stoppage or delays in time of performance.
         (d)   Quantity variations.
            1.   The purchasing agent may include in a purchase contract
provisions dealing with variations between the estimated quantities of work in
a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
            2.   The county determines that each county agency, department and
office and elected county official may purchase services where the contract
amount is less than $5,000 in whatever manner the purchaser determines to be
reasonable.
            3.   Each county agency, department, office and county official
shall invite quotes to be submitted to the county purchasing agency for all
purchases of services where the contract price is expected to exceed $5,000,
unless the purchasing agency determines, in writing, that no quote is necessary
or makes a determination that an alternate method should be used.
   (C)   Purchasing agency.
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners hereby determines that it is the
purchasing agency for the county.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners hereby designates the following persons
to serve as purchasing agents for the county:
         (a)   Each elected county official;
         (b)   Each Circuit and Superior Court Judge;
         (c)   The County Highway Superintendent; and
         (d)   Such county employees as are designated from time to time, in
writing.
      (3)   This section was effective upon passage and signing by the
presiding officer.
(Ord. 96-6-15-98-2, passed 6-15-1998; Ord. 91-6-15-98-3, passed 6-15-1998; Ord.
01-03-05-01, passed 6-15-1998)
§ 31.06 DISHONORED CHECKS.
   (A)   The Prosecuting Attorney of the county is hereby authorized and
directed to collect a service charge on each collection of a dishonored or bad
check handled by said Prosecutor’s office, which may not exceed the greater of
$20 or 5% (but not more than $250), as adjusted from time to time by the
appropriate board(s), of the amount due, pursuant to state law.
   (B)   Said service charge shall become the property of, and income to, the
county.
   (C)   Said Prosecuting Attorney is to act for, and make distribution to the
Treasurer of the county, such service charge collected out of said Prosecutor’s
office within ten days following the end of each calendar month.
   (D)   This section was in full force and effect from and after its due
publication as required by law and passage of the Commissioners of the county.
(Ord. 92-5-19-97-1, passed 5-19-1997)
§ 31.07 POLICE VEHICLE INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to state law, there is hereby established a fee in the sum of
$5, as adjusted from time to time by the appropriate board(s), for each and all
vehicle inspections required under state law, which are performed by officers
of the County Sheriff’s Department.
   (B)   The revenue from such fees shall be submitted to the Auditor of the
county and shall be deposited into a special Vehicle Inspection Fund.
   (C)   All moneys collected from such inspections and deposited into said
Fund shall be appropriated for law enforcement purposes only by the County
Sheriff’s Department.
   (D)   This section was in full force and effect from and after its passage
and adoption.
(Ord. 91-02-01, passed 2-1-1991)
§ 31.08 FIREARMS QUALIFICATIONS TRAINING FEES.
   (A)   The White County Sheriff is authorized to provide firearms
qualifications training for retried law enforcement officers, pursuant to I.C.
35-47-15 et seq., and 926C of the United States Code.
   (B)   The White County Sheriff shall charge a service fee of $25 per firearm
per trainee. However, such service fee shall be waived for any such officer
retired from the White County Sheriffs Department.
   (C)   All such service fees received by the Sheriff for such training shall
be deposited to the White County Sheriff's Firearms Training Fund (#31 -1000-9-
99)
(Res. 14-11-17-02, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 31.09 INVESTMENT POLICY.
   The County Council of White County Indiana, hereby, adopts the White County
Investment Policy attached to Ordinance 2015-01 as Exhibit A, incorporated by
reference as if fully set forth herein, and approves the investment of White
County public funds by the White County Treasurer in investments lasting more
than two years and not more than five years, so long as the total amount of
such investments outstanding do not exceed 25% of the total portfolio of public
funds invested by White County, including balances in transaction accounts.
(Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 31.10 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   The Internal Control Standards as established by I.C. 5-11-1-27(e) are
hereby adopted and shall be in full force and effect from and after the passage
of this section and shall supersede and repeal existing oral or written
personnel policies and procedures.
(Ord. 16-06-06-02, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 31.11 REAL ESTATE DOCUMENT TRANSFER FEE.
   (A)   The White County Auditor is authorized and directed to collect a fee
of $10 for each legal description of each parcel contained in the deed for
which the Auditor makes a real property endorsement. A DEED is defined as a
signed and usually sealed instrument containing some legal transfer, bargain or
contract. This fee is in addition to any other fee provided by law.
   (B)   The Auditor shall place the revenue received under this section in a
county fund dedicated for use in maintaining plat books.
(Ord. 17-11-06-01, passed 11-6-2017; Ord. 19-06-03-02, passed 6-3-2019)
§ 31.12 COUNTY ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME TAX (CAGIT).
   The county adjusted gross income tax as provided in the County Adjusted
Gross Income Tax law is hereby adopted for and on behalf of the county at the
rate of 1% for resident county taxpayers and one-fourth of 1% for all other
county taxpayers in the county.
(Ord. 10-73, passed 5-29-1973)
§ 31.13 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   The county hereby states that revenues received from economic development
income taxes shall be deposited in the county's Economic Development Income Tax
Fund and that revenues may be used as follows:
   (A)   For capital projects, for paying notwithstanding any other law under a
written agreement to be used to finance a capital project or which constitute
government services.
   (B)   For:
      (1)   The construction or acquisition of, or remedial action with respect
to, a capital project for which the unit is empowered to issue general
obligation bonds or establish a fund under any statute for a capital project;
      (2)   The payment of lease rentals under any statute for a capital
project;
      (3)   Contract payments to a nonprofit corporation whose primary
corporate purpose is to assist government in planning and implementing capital
development projects;
      (4)   Operating expenses of a governmental entity that plans or
implements capital development projects;
      (5)   Funding substance removal or remedial action in a designated unit;
      (6)   Joint funding of a capital project with another governmental unit;
and
      (7)   Government services: any lawful purpose for which money in any of
the County of White’s other funds may be used.
   (C)   That said funds shall include the following capital projects which are
hereby determined by the County of White:
      (1)   Identification of general description of each project funded by the
county economic development revenue or other available funds such as SLFRF
government services funds:
         (a)   Funding of the collaborative Water Agreement Project between the
Town of Remington, Jasper County and the County of White to provide water to
the White County Mid-America Commerce Park;
         (b)   To repurpose and renovate an existing building to house
education, Veterans’ Affairs, and Coroner activities, including housing the
expired citizens of White County during the autopsy process and the ability to
preserve and protect the chain of evidence when necessary;
         (c)   Emergency Management Agency functions, including strategic
planning during all county emergencies to protect the general health and
welfare of White County citizens;
         (d)   Funding to repair and construct proper drainage to and from the
White County Courthouse and complete the expansion of the Courthouse Plaza to
allow for greater spacing for outdoor events such as festivals;
         (e)   Funding the purchase and renovation of an existing building to
house Community Corrections Work Release Program members and provide mental
health programs to the community at large;
         (f)   Assist a local municipality (Town of Monon) in the remedy of
waste water treatment to remove an ongoing sewer ban and allow for the growth
of the community and increased workforce housing; and
         (g)   Any lawful government services for which any public funds may be
used as approved by the White County Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   Estimated total cost of each project:
         (a)   Remington Water Agreement - $1,776,124.
         (b)   Repurpose and renovate building - $875,000.
         (c)   Courthouse stormwater - $383,000.
         (d)   Work release mental health building - $4,500,000.
         (e)   WWTP in Monon - $663,0000.
         (f)   Any other lawful government services as approved by the White
County Board of Commissioners - TBD.
      (3)   Sources of funds expected to be used for stated projects:
         (a)   Wind farm economic development funds;
         (b)   Solar farm economic development funds;
         (c)   American Rescue Plan Act funds;
         (d)   Solid waste operating and reserve funds;
         (e)   Rainy day funds; and
         (f)   Cumulative capital development funds.
      (4)   The planning, development and construction schedule of each
project:
         (a)   In progress:
            1.   Remington Water Agreement;
            2.   Repurpose and renovate;
            3.   Courthouse stormwater;
            4.   Purchase and renovate;
            5.   Town of Monon WWTP; or
            6.   Calendar years 2022 and 2023 funding.
         (b)   Any other purpose: calendar years 2022, 2023 and 2024 funding.
(Res. 20-03-16–01, passed 3-3-2020; Res. 22-05-16-01, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 31.14 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The Council hereby establishes a revolving fund pursuant to I.C. 5-1-
14-14(b) (the "Act", to be designated as the White County Economic Development
Revolving Fund (the "Economic Development Fund"). The county may loan the money
in the Economic Development Fund to any borrower if the Council finds that the
loan will be used by the borrower for one or more of the following economic
development purposes. The proceeds of such loan shall be used by the borrower
for such purposes are authorized by the Act.
      (1)   Promoting significant opportunities for the gainful employment of
the municipality's residents;
      (2)   Attracting a major new business enterprise to the county; and
      (3)   Retaining or expanding a significant enterprise in the county.
   (B)   The Economic Development Fund shall be initially funded with monies on
deposit in the EDIT Fund in the amount of $250,000, and the County Auditor is
hereby directed to cause such amount to be transferred from the EDIT Fund to
the Economic Development Fund.
   (C)   The Council shall prepare borrower's loan application forms, loan
agreements, promissory notes, and such other related necessary instruments and
documents.
   (D)   The term of all such loans shall be for a fixed period of two years,
shall bear interest the rate of 1% per annum and shall be due and payable in
full on the maturity date; provided however, so long as the borrower has
satisfied its covenants as set forth in the loan agreement and promissory note
executed by the borrower, the repayment of the loan will be forgiven on the
maturity date and there shall
be no obligation of the borrower to repay the loan, the consideration for the
loan being the retention and continued operation of the borrower's business
enterprise during the term of the loan and the resulting economic benefits to
the county.
   (E)   Eligibility shall be limited to businesses operating within the
corporate limits of the county, which are current on all taxes, not in
violation of any federal, state, or local code or ordinance, and such other
criteria as determined by the Council including credit-worthiness.
   (F)   Approved uses of borrowed funds include financial business hardships
incurred due to COVID-19, such as capital needs, payroll expenses, preventing
staffing reductions, and other critical business expenditures which shall be
detailed within the borrower's loan application.
   (G)   Loan applicants shall apply to the County Auditor, and may be required
to execute affidavits of eligibility, and a credit check may apply. Upon review
and approval by the Council, the Auditor and borrower shall execute loan
agreements, promissory notes, and other documents and instruments to effectuate
the loan.
(Res. 2020-05-18-01, passed 5-18-2020)
§ 31.15 PURCHASING RULES AND POLICIES.
   (A)   Definitions. The definitions contained in I.C. 5-22-2 are incorporated
herein and made a part hereof by reference, including the following:
      PURCHASE. Includes buy, procure, rent, lease, or otherwise acquire. The
term includes the following activities:
         (a)   Description of requirements;
         (b)   Solicitation or selection of sources;
         (c)   Preparation and award of contract;
         (d)   All phases of contract administration; and
         (e)   All functions that pertain to purchasing.
      SUPPLIES. Any property. The term includes equipment, goods, and
materials. The term does not include an interest in real property.
   (B)   Purchasing agency and agents.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-22-2-25, the Board of Commissioners is
designated as the authorized purchasing agency for White County.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-22-2-26, the following individuals are
authorized to act as purchasing agents for the purchasing agency in the
administration of the duties of the purchasing agency for the county:
         (a)   The Board of Commissioners and each elected county official;
         (b)   The Circuit and Superior Court judges and County Prosecutor; and
         (c)   All county department heads appointed by the Board of
Commissioners, or by other county boards or commissions.
   (C)   Restrictions on authority of purchasing agents.
      (1)   Any purchase with an estimated cost of $ 10,000 or more must be
approved by the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   Any purchasing agent may make purchases with an estimated cost of
less than $10,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes and
without the prior approval of the Board of Commissioners; provided however,
that those purchases must otherwise comply with these rules and applicable
state law; and provided further that no department may make a purchase which,
together with other expenditures, exceeds the budget for that department.
      (3)   The cost of a single purchase may not be divided into two or more
purchases for the purpose of avoiding this restriction on the purchasing
agent’s authority.
   (D)   Purchases of $10,000 to $150,000.
      (1)   For purchases of more than $10,000 and less than $150,000, a
purchasing agent must invite quotes from at least three persons or entities
known to deal in the lines or classes of supplies to be purchased.
      (2)   The purchasing agent must mail an invitation to quote to the
persons or entities described in division (D)(1) at least seven days before the
time fixed for receiving quotes.
      (3)   If the purchasing agent receives a satisfactory quote, the
purchasing agent may award a contract to the lowest responsible and responsive
offeror for each line or class of supplies required, but only after approval of
the contract by the Board of Commissioners.
      (4)   The purchasing agent may reject all quotes.
   (E)   Purchases of $150,000 or more (I.C. 5-22-7).
      (1)   For purchases that will cost $150,000 or more, the purchasing agent
shall issue invitation for bids which must contain at a minimum:
         (a)   The description of the purchase;
         (b)   All contractual terms and conditions that apply to the purchase;
         (c)   A statement of the evaluation criteria that will be used,
including any inspection, testing, quality, workmanship, delivery, suitability
for a particular purchase, and the requirements imposed upon offers submitted
by trusts under I.C. 5-22-3-5;
         (d)   The time and place for opening the bids by the Board of
Commissioners;
         (e)   A statement concerning whether the bid must be accompanied by a
certified check or other evidence of financial responsibility that may be
imposed by the Board of Commissioners; and
         (f)   A statement concerning the conditions under which a bid may be
canceled or rejected in whole or in part if the purchasing agent or the Board
of Commissioners determines it is the best interests of the county, in which
case such reasons must be made a part of the contract file.
      (2)   The county shall give notice of the invitation for bids in the
manner required by I.C. 5-3-1, by publishing two times, at least one week
apart, with the last notice to appear at least seven days prior to bid opening.
      (3)   All bids received shall be opened publicly at the time and place
designated in the invitation for bids.
      (4)   A contract must be awarded with reasonable promptness to the lowest
responsible and responsive bidder. If the contract is not awarded to the lowest
bidder, reasons for doing so must be stated in the minutes of the Board of
Commissioners. All bids may be rejected and new bids may be solicited. In the
event no valid bids are received, the purchasing agent may go to the open
market without further advertisement in order to make a purchase, subject to
the approval of the Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   Request for specifications. If a purchasing agent determines that
development of specifications by the purchasing agent for a purchase of
supplies is not feasible, the purchasing agent may issue a request for
specifications in accordance with I.C. 5-22-5-5.
   (G)   Request for proposals (I.C. 5-22-9). If the Board of Commissioners
determines that it is either not practicable or not advantageous to purchase
certain types of supplies by sealed competitive bidding; and that receiving
proposals is the preferred method for purchasing certain types of supplies,
then:
      (1)   Subject to the restrictions on authority of purchasing agents set
forth in this section, a purchasing agent may award a contract using the
procedure for solicitation of proposals set forth in I.C. 5-22-9.
      (2)   Each purchasing agent shall prepare and file with the White County
Auditor, a register of proposals in accordance with I.C. 5-22-9-4 whenever a
request for proposals is issued by the purchasing agent.
   (H)   Cooperative purchasing (I.C. 36-1-7-12). The Board of Commissioners
may authorize the purchase of supplies, without notice, jointly with another
governmental entity which has complied with the applicable statutes governing
public bids, under the conditions of I.C. 36-1-7-12.
   (I)   Publication of notices. All notices of invitation for bids, request
for specifications, or requests for proposals shall be published in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Monticello Herald Journal and the News and Review. The
purchasing agent shall schedule the publication of notice to provide a
reasonable amount of time for preparation and submission of bids. The notice
will be published two times, at least one week apart. The second publication
must occur at least seven days prior to the date the bids, specifications, or
proposals will be opened.
   (J)   Evidence of financial responsibility.
      (1)   Purchases less than $10,000. The purchasing agent may not require
evidence of financial responsibility when the estimated cost of a purchase is
less than $10,000.
      (2)   Purchases between $10,000 and $150,000. The solicitation may
include a requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial
responsibility. If evidence of financial responsibility is required, the
solicitation must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a
bond or certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated
cost of purchase.
      (3)   Purchases over $150,000. The solicitation shall include a
requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility and
must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or
certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the
purchase.
   (K)   Special purchasing methods (I.C. 5-22-10).
      (1)   A purchasing agent, with the approval of the Board of Commissioners
for purchases of more than $10,000, may make special a purchase under I.C. 5-
22-10 without soliciting bids or proposals, if the Board of Commissioners
determines that:
         (a)   Emergency conditions, or a threat to public health, welfare, or
safety exists (I.C. 5-22-10-4);
         (b)   There exists a unique opportunity to obtain supplies at a
substantial savings to the county (I.C. 5-22-10-5);
         (c)   The supplies may be purchased at auction (I.C. 5-22-10-6);
         (d)   Only one source meets the county's reasonable requirements for
data processing or license agreements pertaining to software programs (I.C. 5-
22-10-7);
         (e)   Only one source meets the county’s reasonable requirements for a
purchase when the compatibility of equipment, accessories, or replacement parts
is a substantial consideration in the purchase (I.C. 5-22-10-8);
         (f)   Other required purchasing methods would seriously impair the
functioning of the county (I.C. 5-22-10-9);
         (g)   The county has solicited the purchase under another required
purchasing method and has not received a responsive offer (I.C. 5-22-10-10);
         (h)   The conditions exist under I.C. 5-22-10-11 for the evaluation of
supplies;
         (i)   A government discount is available under I.C. 5-22-10-12;
         (j)   There is only one source of supply, subject to the conditions in
I.C. 5-22-10-13;
         (k)   Efficiency and economic advantages exist, under the conditions
of I.C. 5-22-10-14;
         (l)   The purchase is made from the federal government, under I.C. 5-
22-10-15 or 5-22-10-16;
         (m)   The supplies can be acquired by gift (I.C. 5-22-10-17);
         (n)   The purchase is from a public utility under the conditions of
I.C. 5-22-10-19; or
         (o)   Under any other circumstances pursuant to I.C. 5-22-10, as
amended.
      (2)   The White County Auditor shall maintain a separate contract record
file for all special purchases, and maintain a written determination for the
basis for the special purchase and the selection of the contractor. A record
listing all contracts made for special purchases shall be maintained for a
minimum of five years, and shall contain each contractor’
   (L)   Contract terms adjustments.
      (1)   Purchase adjustments. The purchasing agent may include provisions
to permit price adjustments in a purchase contract. The following provisions
for price adjustments may be included:
         (a)   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement of a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon after
the beginning of performance as possible;
         (b)   Price adjustment must be computed by unit prices specified in
the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
         (c)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all
as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
         (d)   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contracting parties may mutually agree upon; or
         (e)   In the absence of agreement by the parties, price adjustments
must be computed by a unilateral determination by the county of the costs
attributable to the events or situations under such clauses with adjustment of
profit or fee, all as computed by the county in accordance with applicable
rules adopted by the governmental body.
      (2)   Adjustments in time of performance. The purchasing agent may
include provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of
performance under the contract.
      (3)   Unilateral right of county. The purchasing agent may include in a
purchasing contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of the county
to order changes in the contract terms in order to deal with temporary work or
supply shortages or delays in the time of performance of the purchase contract,
or in any public works contracts related thereto.
      (4)   Quantity variations. The purchasing agent may include in a purchase
contract provisions dealing with variations between the estimated quantities of
work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
   (M)   Adoption of supplemental policies. Under I.C. 5-22-2-21, the Board of
Commissioners may adopt further written policies pertaining to purchasing
procedure or purchasing purposes to effectuate the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 21-11-15-01, passed 11-15-2021)
§ 31.16 GRANT MANAGEMENT PROCESS.
   (A)   Establishment. This grant management process is established for county
government for all grants of any type or character, including federal, state,
local, or private foundations.
   (B)   Grant application review.
      (1)   Prior to applying for a new grant or a grant renewal, the
department will present the available documentation for the grant opportunity
and the proposed project/program at a public meeting of the Board of
Commissioners. Advanced notice to the Commissioners by the department of any
grant request is preferred and will allow opportunity for a timely decision.
However, it is understood that the discovery of grant opportunities, grant
cycles, and proposal deadlines may not allow for the preferred timeframe in
every situation. The grant application review process requires, at a minimum,
that the following information be provided by the department:
         (a)   A description of the proposed project, program, or capital to be
funded by the grant;
         (b)   An estimation of the county funding needed to support the grant;
and
         (c)   An examination of the impact of the grant to county government,
to citizens of the county, and to other like services provided by public and
private agencies in the county.
      (2)   The grant application review process is designed to meet the
following goals:
         (a)   To ascertain the requirements needed to fulfill the objectives
of the grant;
         (b)   To assure that grant-funded projects, programs, and capital are
not duplicative or counterproductive to other projects, programs, and capital;
         (c)   To assure that all grant programs are within the confines of the
governmental services needed to be provided by county government; and
         (d)   To examine the proposed grant's impact on current and future
county government funding and programming.
      (3)   The County Commissioners will review all grant applications and act
on the grant request as deemed appropriate. The grant application will be
signed by the County Commissioners or by the designee authorized by the County
Commissioners. The County Commissioners reserve the right to appoint a grant
committee to undertake the review process and make recommendations to the
County Commissioners with respect to grant requests. Final action taken on
grant requests will be provided to the County Council.
   (C)   Grant appropriations. Following grant approval and a grant award
announcement, the grantee must notify the County Commissioners and County
Council to request the appropriation of the grant funds and any additional
matching funds. The County Commissioners, County Council, and County Auditor
may request any additional supporting documentation in connection with the
appropriation request.
   (D)   Grant recordkeeping.
      (1)   The County Auditor will establish a separate fund and file for each
grant. The grantee will provide the Auditor’s office with the following:
         (a)   Grant application;
         (b)   Grant award letter and agreement;
         (c)   Claim vouchers and invoices;
         (d)   Reports with supporting documentation; and
         (e)   Any other documentation relevant to the grant.
      (2)   The Auditor's office will compile information to be entered into
Gateway obtained from the financial records and grant files. This report will
be reviewed for accuracy and signed by the Auditor and a deputy prior to entry
into Gateway. The grantee/department will also maintain a grant file with all
grant documents that have been remitted to the Auditor. Reports detailing
receipts, disbursements, and balances of the grant funds will be provided by
the Auditor to the grantee/department.
   (E)   Grant management.
      (1)   The grantee/department is responsible for the overall management of
their grants. This includes:
         (a)   Managing the grant budget and grant fund;
         (b)   Reporting to the granting agency;
         (c)   Retaining all necessary records for reporting as required by the
grant agreement;
         (d)   Retaining all necessary records for county and individual
department audits;
         (e)   Managing unspent funds; and
         (f)   Communicating with the granting agency with respect to the grant
funds, planning and designing of the grant program or project, implementing and
executing the grant program or project, and closing out the grant.
      (2)   The grantee/department is also responsible for the management of
grant-funded positions and personnel.
         (a)   Prior to grant funds being fully expended or the end of the
grant cycle, grantees/departments must eliminate grant-funded positions,
transition grant-funded personnel into open positions, or transition grant-
funded personnel into a permanent position, following county procedures.
         (b)   The Auditor's office must be notified of payroll fund
adjustments for personnel prior to grant cycle conclusion or exhaustion of
grant funds.
         (c)   To ensure complete and accurate fund management and record
maintenance for reporting and audit purposes, the submission of all
documentation and information above is required. Failure to comply may result
in a delay or denial of the establishment of a fund number, receipt of grant
funds, payment of claims, or approval of future grant application requests.
(Ord. 23-05-15-02, passed 5-15-2023)
CHAPTER 32: GENERAL POLICIES
Section
   
32.01   Travel advisories
   
32.02   County-owned property
   
32.03   Multi-hazard mitigation plan
   
32.04   Birth/death certificates
   
32.05   No smoking policy
   
32.06   GIS data sharing
   
32.07   Materiality policies and procedures
   
32.08   Establishing and adopting a conflict of interest policy
   
32.09   Restricting possession of weapons on county property
   
32.10   Title VI Implementation Plan
   
32.11   Electronic meetings policy
   
32.12   Travel policy
   
32.13   ADA Transition Plan for Public Facilities
   
32.14   County Community Corrections policies and procedures
 
   
32.99   Penalty
§ 32.01 TRAVEL ADVISORIES.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known as the “Local Disaster Emergency
Declaration Ordinance of White County, Indiana”, and shall apply to all roads,
highways or rights-of-way maintained by the County Highway Department
(“Roads”). The mandatory provisions of the section and of any local disaster
emergency issued pursuant to the ordinance, including the prohibitions on
travel and the penalties for violating those prohibitions shall not apply to
streets maintained by a city or town within the county, nor to a state highway
maintained by the State Department of Transportation, nor to a federal
interstate highway situated within the county.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   The Board, after consultation with the following if available, or
the respective representative designated by each as the person to consult in
his or her absence for the purpose of recommending a declaration of local
disaster emergency, may declare a local disaster emergency which may also
contain a “warning level” travel advisory by executive order when, in the
Board’s judgment, by majority rule, such order would be appropriate under I.C.
10-14-3-29 and in the best interest of the public safety and welfare of the
residents of the county:
         (a)   The County Emergency Management Advisory Council;
         (b)   County Sheriff;
         (c)   County Emergency Management/Homeland Security Director; and
         (d)   County Highway Superintendent.
      (2)   If only one member of the Board is available to sign the
declaration of local disaster emergency, he or she can declare a local disaster
emergency if he or she has obtained and documented the verbal or written
concurrence of at least one other Board member.
      (3)   If, with or without the issuance of a declaration of local disaster
emergency, the Board or the Emergency Management Agency Director determines
that conditions require an advisory or watch level of travel advisory, the
Board, by majority rule, or the Emergency Management Agency Director, upon
written notice to the Board may issue an advisory or a watch travel advisory.
      (4)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3, a warning level travel advisory may be
issued only after or as a part of a declaration of local disaster emergency.
Such emergency shall continue in effect until the above mentioned Board members
and/or officials or their respective designees who declared the emergency
thereafter determine an emergency no longer exists and terminate the emergency
order.
      (5)   The Board may declare a warning level travel advisory upon its
determination that the conditions are appropriate for the issuance of a local
disaster emergency under I.C. 10-14-3-29, and the further determination that
the criteria set forth in division (C) below, have been met.
   (C)   Local travel advisories. A local travel advisory shall be declared in
accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-29.5 and this section. The purpose of a local
travel advisory is to keep the residents of county informed of the weather and
county road conditions, and to assist the County Highway Department in the
clearing of the county roadways by eliminating stranded vehicles.
      (1)   Advisory level travel advisory. This level may be declared when
routine travel or activities may be restricted in areas of the county because
of a hazardous situation; citizens should use caution or avoid these areas.
Schools and businesses may begin to implement their emergency action plans.
      (2)   Watch level travel advisory. This level may be declared when
conditions are threatening to the safety of the public. Only essential travel
is recommended (i.e., to and from work, emergency situations and the like). At
this level, emergency action plans should be implemented by businesses,
schools, government agencies and other organizations.
      (3)   Warning level travel advisory. This level may be declared when
roads have become impassable and the County Highway Department is not able to
keep the roadways cleared due to extreme weather conditions such as a severe
snow fall, high drifts or blizzard-like conditions are present. Travel may be
restricted to emergency management workers only and essential emergency travel
by members of the public as the Board may further direct, such as privately
employed health care workers. Further restrictions that the Board deems
necessary may be included within the local disaster declaration.
   (D)   Publication. Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing or
terminating a local disaster emergency shall be given prompt and general
publicity and shall be filed promptly in the office of the County Clerk
pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-22(b)(2). Publication and broadcast of an advisory,
watch or warning level travel advisory shall be made or caused to be made by
the Board or other officials designating the level of travel advisory using a
press release to all law enforcement agencies fire departments, hospitals and
news media in the county. The declaration shall be promptly forwarded to the
State Department of Homeland Security and shall be kept on file by the County
Emergency Management Agency/Department of Homeland Security, County Clerk and
Auditor.
   (E)   Exemptions. Vehicles which shall be exempt from the travel and parking
restrictions imposed in a travel advisory pursuant to this section shall
include medical assistance, law enforcement, fire department, emergency
management, public utility and fuel hauling vehicles, and employees of any of
the above exempt services, if engaged in performing their respective duties.
Any other vehicles violating this section or any of the parking restrictions
contained in local declaration of disaster emergency or a warning travel
advisory are subject to removal by towing or other means at the expense of the
owner of the vehicle, when such towing and/or removal is deemed necessary by a
duly authorized representative of any one or more of the following: the County
Highway Department, the County Sheriff’s Department, a State Conservation
Officer or the State Police.
   (F)   Effectiveness. This section was effective immediately upon passage and
repeals any prior local disaster emergency ordinance.
(Ord. 12-01-17-01, passed 1-17-2012) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.02 COUNTY-OWNED PROPERTY.
   (A)   County-owned vehicles.
      (1)   The following employees are provided a county-owned vehicle who are
required to commute and use the vehicle for official county business purposes
only:
         (a)   Sheriff;
         (b)   Community Corrections;
         (c)   Sheriff’s Chief Deputy;
         (d)   Building Inspector;
         (e)   Sheriff’s Merit Deputies;
         (f)   Prosecutor’s investigator;
         (g)   Sheriff’s Community Service Officer;
         (h)   Veteran’s Service Officer;
         (i)   County Environmental Officer;
         (j)   County Recycling;
         (k)   County Assessor;
         (l)   Coroner;
         (m)   Highway Department;
         (n)   County Surveyor;
         (o)   Emergency Management; and
         (p)   Information Technologies.
      (2)   Except for a county employee's use of a qualified non-personal use
vehicle, all employees of the county shall not use or permit the use of any
county-owned vehicle for any purpose other than official county business or de
minimis personal use. For purposes of this section, a QUALIFIED NON-PERSONAL
USE VEHICLE is a vehicle the employee is not likely to use more than a minimal
amount for personal purposes because of its design. The IRS has determined, in
its regulations, which vehicles are qualified non-personal use vehicles.
Employees who drive qualified non-personal use vehicles are exempt from the IRS
vehicle fringe reporting requirements and are exempt from including their use
of the vehicles in gross income when the conditions for that vehicle type are
met:
         (a)   Clearly marked police and fire vehicles, when the employee is
required to use the vehicle for commuting and is on call at all times. Personal
use (other than commuting), if allowed, must be permitted for and confined to
within the physical jurisdiction of the police officer's arrest powers or
firefighter's obligation to respond to an emergency. A police or fire vehicle
is clearly marked if painted insignia or words (other than mere markings on a
license plate) make it readily apparent as a police or fire vehicle.
         (b)   1.   Unmarked law enforcement vehicles used by law enforcement
officers when any personal use, including commuting, is authorized by the state
and incident to law enforcement functions, such as reporting directly from home
to a stakeout, surveillance site, or an emergency situation. Recreation and
vacation trips do not qualify as authorized use.
            2.   A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER is an individual who:
               a.   Is a full-time employee of a governmental unit that is
responsible for preventing or investigating crimes involving injury to persons
or property;
               b.   Is authorized to carry firearms, execute warrants, and make
arrests; and
               c.   Regularly carries firearms (except when it is not possible
to do so because of the requirements of undercover work).
         (c)   Ambulances and hearses used for those purposes.
         (d)   Certain cargo and specialized heavy vehicles, including only:
            1.   Any vehicle designed to carry cargo with a loaded gross
vehicle weight over 14,000 pounds;
            2.   Bucket trucks ("cherry pickers");
            3.   Cement mixers;
            4.   Combines;
            5.   Cranes and derricks;
            6.   Dump trucks (including garbage trucks);
            7.   Flatbed trucks;
            8.   Forklifts;
            9.   Refrigerated trucks; and
            10.   Qualified moving vans, limited to any truck or van used by a
professional moving company in the trade or business of moving household or
business goods and for which personal use is not authorized or permitted except
under specialized circumstances.
         (e)   Delivery trucks with seating only for the driver, or only for
the driver plus a folding jump seat.
         (f)   Buses, but only the driver (and not any passenger) of a bus is
exempt from reporting and including their use of the vehicle in gross income.
Buses means only:
            1.   Passenger buses with a capacity of at least 20 passengers and
used for that purpose; or
            2.   School buses.
         (g)   Qualified specialized utility repair trucks (not including any
van or pick-up truck) specially designed and used to carry heavy tools, testing
equipment parts if both of the following conditions are also met:
            1.   The truck has permanent interior construction (such as shelves
or racks) which have been installed to carry and store the heavy items and it
is unlikely the truck will be used for more than minimal personal use; and
            2.   The state requires the employee to drive the truck home in
order to be able to respond to emergency situations regarding utility repair.
         (h)   Tractors and other special-purpose farm vehicles.
         (i)   Pick-up trucks.
            1.   A pick-up truck with a loaded gross vehicle weight of 14,000
pounds or less is qualified non-personal use vehicle if it has been specially
modified so that it is not likely to be used more than minimally for personal
purposes. For example, a pick-up truck qualifies if it is clearly marked with
permanently affixed decals, special painting, or other advertising associated
with your trade, business, or function and meets either of the following
requirements:
            2.   It is equipped with at least one of the following items:
               a.   A hydraulic lift gate;
               b.   Permanent tanks or drums;
               c.   Permanent sideboards or panels that materially raise the
level of the sides of the truck bed; or
               d.   Other heavy equipment (such as an electric generator,
welder, boom, or crane used to tow automobiles and other vehicles).
         (j)   Vans. A van with a loaded gross vehicle weight of 14,000 pounds
or less is qualified non-personal-use vehicle if it has been specially modified
so it is not likely to be used more than minimally for personal purposes. For
example, a van qualifies if it is clearly marked with permanently affixed
deals, special painting, or other advertising associated with your trade,
business, or function and has a seat for the driver only (or the driver and one
other person) and either of the following items:
            1.   Permanent shelving that fills most of the cargo area; or
            2.   An open cargo area and the van always carry merchandise,
material, or equipment used in your trade, business, or function.
         (k)   Clearly marked public safety officer vehicles, when the employee
is required to use the vehicle for commuting and is on call at all times. A
public safety officer vehicle is clearly marked if, through painted insignia or
words, it is readily apparent that the vehicle is a public safety officer
vehicle.
      (3)   For county employees provided a county-owned vehicle, other than
those provided a qualified non-personal use vehicle, personal use (other than
commuting and de minimis personal use) of county-owned vehicles is prohibited.
      (4)   Other than commuting, personal use of a clearly marked police or
fire county-owned qualified non-personal use vehicle is prohibited outside the
jurisdiction of the County Sheriffs Department, which jurisdiction is White
County, Indiana, and all adjacent counties.
      (5)   Except for qualified non-personal use vehicles, $1.50 per one-way
commute (home-to-work or work-to-home) shall be includable in the gross income
of any county employee commuting to/from work in a county-owned vehicle.
      (6)   All county-owned vehicles, other than unmarked law-enforcement
vehicles, shall be clearly marked and identified as an official county vehicle.
   (B)   Uniforms.
      (1)   Personal use of county-owned uniforms for other than official
county related business and while commuting to and from work is prohibited.
      (2)   If any required clothing or equipment is adaptable to general usage
as ordinary clothing and equipment, then such county-provided clothing or
equipment is considered a taxable benefit to the employee and subject to all
employment taxes. Such items are not taxable if they are considered by the IRS
to be a de minimis fringe benefit. The IRS has ruled previously in a particular
case that items with a value exceeding $100 could not be considered de minimis,
as updated by the IRS March 29, 2022.
      (3)   Work clothing provided by the county is not taxable to the employee
if the employee must wear the clothing as a condition of employment and the
clothes are not suitable for everyday wear. Such clothing includes work clothes
for law enforcement officers.
      (4)   Clothing allowances, if permitted and used are a taxable fringe
benefit and are subject to all employment taxes.
   (C)   Tools, supplies, cell phones and all equipment.
      (1)   County employees personal use of county-owned tools, supplies, and
all other equipment or property of any kind is prohibited. However, county
employees may use cell phones provided to or paid for by the county for
personal use as long as such personal use does not in any way interfere with or
compromise the duties of the employee for the county, nor violate and federal,
state or county laws, rule, ordinances or policies. Such personal use shall not
result in an increase in the cost to the county to its cell phone service
provider, and, in such event the employee shall be responsible for payment of
any additional cost incurred as a result of any personal use.
      (2)   Personal use of county-owned facilities (offices, garages, grounds,
etc.) during work or non-work hours by county employees is prohibited.
      (3)   To ensure compliance with the Internal Revenue Code, Indiana State
Code and this section, the County Auditor shall establish and county department
heads shall implement and monitor internal controls, including, but not limited
to, requiring acknowledgments signed by all employees confirming their
knowledge and compliance with the requirements of this section as a condition
of their employment.
   (D)   Effective date. This section was in full force and effect from and
after its passage and adoption, retroactively to 1-1-2010.
(Ord. 10-02-16-01, passed 2-16-2010; Ord. 12-02-06-01, passed 2-6-2012; Ord.
22-12-05-01, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 32.03 MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   (A)   The county participated jointly in the planning process with the other
local units of government within the county to prepare a multi-hazard
mitigation plan.
   (B)   The County Emergency Management Agency will submit on behalf of the
participating municipalities the adopted multi-hazard mitigation plan to the
State Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency Management
Agency for final review and approval.
(Res. 10-06-07-01, passed 6-7-2010; Res., passed 4-4-2022)
§ 32.04 BIRTH/DEATH CERTIFICATES.
   The County Health Department shall be authorized to charge $10, as adjusted
from time to time by the appropriate board(s), for certified birth certificates
and death certificates, effective 8-6-2007.
(Ord. 08-06-07-01, passed 8-6-2007)
§ 32.05 NO SMOKING POLICY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section SMOKING shall be defined as in I.C.
7.1-5-12-3.
   (B)   Smoking shall be prohibited in or upon all county-owned or leased
buildings, property and vehicles. Warning signs shall be conspicuously posted
throughout every building that prohibit smoking. In every county office that
issues county vehicles a sign shall be posted that reads "Smoking Inside County
Vehicles is Prohibited".
   (C)   Each county elected official and department head shall ask any person
found smoking, in or upon any county-owned or leased property or vehicle under
his or her direct supervision, to immediately refrain from smoking or leave the
property or vehicle.
   (D)   Any person refusing a request to refrain from smoking in violation of
this section may be subject to a fine in the sum of $300. A county employee
violating this section may also be subject to discipline under the White County
Personnel Policies.
   (E)   Copies of this section shall be distributed by the Auditor to all
employees and elected officials of White County.
(Ord. 16-06-06-03, passed 6-6-2026)
§ 32.06 GIS DATA SHARING.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      APPLICATION. White County Government Electronic Map Data Share
Application.
      COUNTY. White County, Indiana.
      ELECTRONIC MAP DATA. Copyrighted layer or layers of data provided by a
public agency from an electronic geographic information system. Also referred
to as GIS DATA.
      ENTITY. A person, public agency, partnership or corporation.
      GIS. The White County Geographic Information System.
   (B)   Purpose and intent. This section shall provide the means of regulating
and administering GIS data usage by outside parties, as contained in, or a
component of, the county GIS map filing system. Any agreement covered by this
section shall be for GIS data usage only and shall not to be considered a sale
of said information. Usage of this information is subject to the restrictions
and limitations as provided in this section.
   (C)   Application, fees and approval.
      (1)   Any entity requesting GIS data sharing must present a completed
application to the Area Plan Office, along with the required usage fee, for
consideration. The application shall be for a provisional data usage agreement,
and is not an agreement to purchase data.
      (2)   Fees shall be charged according to the fee schedule included within
the application.
      (3)   Fees charged by White County shall be used for maintenance,
upgrading and enhancing the county GIS service provider. Some GIS data may be
provided directly by the White County Area Plan Office or White County IT
Department.
      (4)   Inquiries for application shall be made to the White County Area
Plan Department.
      (5)   The White County Council shall approve and establish by ordinance
the fees charged and the fund for deposit and use of such funds, including
those collected for duplication of electronic map data.
   (D)   Restrictions, limitations, and permitted uses.
      (1)   No entity, other than those authorized by the White County
Commissioners, may reproduce, store, grant access, deliver, or sell any
information obtained from, the county GIS provider or any county department or
office to any other entity.
      (2)   Any entity receiving GIS data from the county GIS provider, or any
county department or office, shall not use such data for generating mailing
lists, address lists or other database for the purpose of selling, advertising,
or soliciting the purchase of merchandise, goods or services, or to sell, loan,
give away or otherwise deliver the information obtained by the request to any
other person.
   (E)   Terms.
      (1)   Only data layers that are included on the application and which
have been approved by the White County Commissioners shall be available for
data sharing. The application shall list the currently available or anticipated
layers.
      (2)   Payment is required for GIS data prior to the time of delivery of
data.
   (F)   Disclaimer of warranties. County GIS data shall remain the property of
White County. All GIS data supplied from county-owned records is not warranted
for content or accuracy. Data may be omitted or be inaccurate and is subject to
modification and/or changes. The county shall not be liable for errors or
incomplete data. By using GIS data, the recipient is agreeing to protect, hold
harmless and indemnify White County, its employees and officers from any and
all liability for alleged direct or consequential damages or costs of any kind.
(Ord. 16-01-19-02, passed 1-19-2016)
§ 32.07 MATERIALITY POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   White County hereby establishes the materiality threshold at which
point the County shall report incidents of material variances, losses, or
shortages to the State Board of Accounts to be a $100,000 or more one-time cash
loss, or a value of $50,000 or more for a one-time loss of assets.
   (B)   Any county public official, department head or employee with actual
knowledge or reasonable cause to believe that there has been a misappropriation
of public funds or assets shall immediately send written notice of such
misappropriation to the White County Commissioners and the White County
Prosecuting Attorney, regardless of the amount or value.
(Ord. 16-12-05-02, passed 12-5-2016)
§ 32.08 ESTABLISHING AND ADOPTING A CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY.
   (A)   The following paragraphs apply to all public officials and employees
of White County, Indiana.
   (B)   No officers or employees of the county shall neither solicit nor
accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from consultants,
potential consultants, or parties to sub-agreements, unless in accordance with
this conflict of interest policy. The aforementioned prohibition does not
include gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value under $555. Any
financial interest under $555 shall be considered not substantial in accordance
with the Code of Federal Regulations.
   (C)   This policy conforms to the standards set forth in the Code of Federal
Regulations and by the Indiana Department of Transportation. A "consultant" is
defined as an individual or firm providing engineering and design related
services as a party to a contract with a recipient or sub-recipient of Federal
assistance.
(Ord. 17-10-02-01, passed 10-2-2017)
Cross reference:
   Building permit issuance; conflict of interest, see §
150.20
§ 32.09 RESTRICTING POSSESSION OF WEAPONS ON COUNTY PROPERTY.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section, the term WEAPON includes, but is
not limited to any of the following:
      (1)   DEADLY WEAPON as defined by I.C. § 35-41-1-8;
      (2)   FIREARM as defined by I.C. § 35-47-1-5;
      (3)   ELECTRIC STUN WEAPON as defined by I.C. § 35-47-8-1;
      (4)   STUN GUN as defined by I.C. § 35-47-8-2;
      (5)   LASER as defined by I.C. § 35-47-8-3;
      (6)   Knife;
      (7)   EXPLOSIVE refers to any agent or substance tending or serving to
explode, including, but not limited to, gunpowder or dynamite;
      (8)   Club; or
      (9)   Any other object that in the manner in which it is used, or could
ordinarily be used, or is intended to be used, is readily capable of causing
SERIOUS BODILY INJURY (as defined by I.C. § 35-41-1-25) as determined by the
White County sheriff's officers.
   (B)   Restrictions. Except as provided in division (C), a person shall not
possess on or about his or her person a weapon at or upon the following
locations:
      (1)   Within the White County Government Building and surrounding White
County Courthouse premises or in the area immediately adjacent to the White
County Government Building, bounded on the east by the 100 block of North Main
Street, on the north by Court Street, on the west by the 100 block of North
Illinois Street, and on the south by the 100 block of West Broadway;
      (2)   Within the White County offices located at 120/124 N. Main Street,
Monticello, Indiana;
      (3)   Within the White County Annex and surrounding premises located at
315 N. Illinois Street, Monticello, Indiana; and
      (4)   Within the White County Sheriff's Department and surrounding
premises located at 915 W. Hanawalt Street, Monticello, Indiana; and
      (5)   Within the office building owned by White County located at 1017
O'Connor Blvd., Monticello, Indiana.
   (C)   Exceptions. The following persons are exempt from this order: law
enforcement officers under I.C. § 35-41-1-17, Indiana Department of Correction
Officers, County Environmental Officer, Community Correction officers, judicial
officers, and probation officers who are conducting official business and duly
authorized to carry deadly weapons. Employees of the Courthouse, Sheriff's
Department, and Annex who carry chemical spray devices for personal protection
are also exempt. The persons described as exempt under this section shall not
be exempt if they or any member of their family is a party to any proceeding
taking place in court, or are present in the White County Courthouse, Sheriff's
Department, Annex, or any White County offices described in division (B) for
personal matters for themselves or family members. The White County Sheriff may
provide reasonable temporary storage of prohibited weapons for persons
requesting such storage who are otherwise lawfully carrying such weapons into
the White County Government Building for the duration of such person's presence
in the White County Government Building.
   (D)   Penalty. Any person violating division (B) of this section shall be
subject to punishment for indirect contempt of court pursuant to I.C. § 34-47-
3 and a fine of $250. Any person violating divsion (B) of this section shall
also be subject to having the firearm or weapon forfeited and confiscated by
the proper law enforcement officials and thereafter destroyed.
(Ord. 18-05-21-02, passed 5-21-2018)
§ 32.10 TITLE VI IMPLEMENTATION PLAN.
   The White County Title VI Implementation Plan is hereby approved, adopted in
its entirety and incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 19-04-01-01, passed 4-1-2019; Ord. 22-07-05-01, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 32.11 ELECTRONIC MEETINGS POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   The provisions of I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 et seq., including
definitions, apply to this section.
      (2)   This section shall be known as the “Electronic Meetings Policy” of
the Commissioners and applies to the Commissioners and any committee appointed
directly by this Board of Commissioners or its presiding officer.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C) and (E), any member may participate in
a meeting by any electronic means of communication that:
         (a)   Allows all participating members of the governing body to
simultaneously communicate with each other; and
         (b)   Other than a meeting that is an executive session, allows the
public to simultaneously attend and observe the meeting.
      (2)   A member who participates by an electronic means of communication:
         (a)   Shall be considered present for purposes of establishing a
quorum; and
         (b)   May participate in final action only if the member can be seen
and heard.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
   (C)   (1)   At least 50% of the members must be physically present at a
meeting at which a member will participate by means of electronic
communication. Not more than 50% of the members may participate by an
electronic means of communication at that same meeting.
      (2)   A member may not attend more than 50% of the meetings in a calendar
year by an electronic means of communication, unless the member's electronic
participation is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
      (3)   A member may attend two consecutive meetings (a set of meetings) by
electronic communication. A member must attend in person at least one meeting
between sets of meetings that the member attends by electronic communication,
unless the member's absence is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
   (D)   The minutes or memoranda of a meeting at which any member participates
by electronic means of communication must:
      (1)   Identify each member who:
         (a)   Was physically present at the meeting;
         (b)   Participated in the meeting by electronic means of
communication; and
         (c)   Was absent; and
      (2)   Identify the electronic means of communication by which:
         (a)   Members participated in the meeting; and
         (b)   Members of the public attended and observed the meeting, if the
meeting was not an executive session.
   (E)   No member of the Board of Commissioners or County Council may
participate by means of electronic communication in a meeting at which the
Board of Commissioners or County Council may take final action to:
      (1)   Adopt a budget;
      (2)   Make a reduction in personnel;
      (3)   Initiate a referendum;
      (4)   Impose or increase a fee;
      (5)   Impose or increase a penalty;
      (6)   Exercise the Board of Commissioners' or County Council's power of
eminent domain; or
      (7)   Establish, impose, raise or renew a tax.
   (F)   (1)   If an emergency is declared by: (a) the Governor under I.C. 10-
14-3-12; or (b) The Board of Commissioners or Council of White County under
I.C. 10-14-3-29, members are not required to be physically present for a
meeting until the emergency is terminated.
      (2)   Members may participate in a meeting by any means of communication
provided that:
         (a)   At least a quorum of the members participate in the meeting by
means of electronic communication or in person;
         (b)   The public may simultaneously attend and observe the meeting
unless the meeting is an executive session; and
         (c)   The minutes or memoranda of the meeting must comply with
division (D) above.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
   (G)   This section shall be effective from and after adoption by this Board
of Commissioners and compliance with I.C. 36-2-4-8.
(Res. 21-05-17-02, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 32.12 TRAVEL POLICY.
   (A)   Reimbursements.
      (1)   Lodging. Reimbursement amount allowed will be the rate determined
by the state or association within the block of rooms secured by the state or
association; if no block room rate is provided by the association,
reimbursement will be at the rate established for state employees or the actual
cost, whichever is less. Lodging costs will be reimbursed only if the session
is being held a distance of at least 50 miles from the White County building
and only for each night preceding the session.
      (2)   Subsistence.
         (a)   Allowance for meals for each day in attendance will be
reimbursed at the actual cost, not to exceed $50 per day including gratuity.
Detailed receipts must be submitted for reimbursement. Alcoholic beverages will
not be reimbursed. If a White County employee charges their meal to a county
purchasing card and the employee exceeds the daily allowance or purchases
alcohol, the employee must reimburse the county for the costs not covered. The
county meal allowance is a reimbursement for actual expenditures incurred, not
a per diem.
         (b)   If a White County employee claims a per diem offered by an
association, that per diem will be paid through the county payroll and will be
reported as taxable income on the employee's year-end tax statement (W-2). The
per diem will be in lieu of a meal allowance. The employee will not receive
both.
      (3)   Mileage. Reimbursement for mileage while driving your personal
vehicle on county business, as established by the White County Council, will be
reimbursed at the rate allowed for state employees as determined semi-annually
by the Indiana Department of Administration Travel Services and the State
Budget Agency; currently $0.41 per mile. Mileage should be calculated from the
employee's county building location or the employee's home, whichever is
closer, to the destination by the shortest route.
      (4)   Parking. The reimbursement allowance shall be equal to the cost of
parking for the meeting site or the actual cost, whichever is less. A receipt
is required for reimbursement.
   (B)   General rules.
      (1)   Follow the state rulings set in the state call letter (if
applicable).
      (2)   Make room reservations as quickly as possible to avoid missing out
on the block room rate. The employee will be reimbursed only for the block room
rate or the actual cost, whichever is lower.
      (3)   Take the county ST-105 form to receive exemption from sales tax on
lodging.
      (4)   If more than one person is being transported, only one mileage
allowance will be paid to the employee or official providing the conveyance.
Carpooling is required whenever possible.
      (5)   Reimbursement for state called conferences for elected officials
and newly elected officials shall be made in the manner provided by law on a
duly verified claim or voucher to which shall be attached the call letter of
the State Board of Accounts and the certificate showing proof of the number of
days attended and any other allowable reimbursements being claimed such as
meals and mileage. All payments shall be made from the general fund from money
not otherwise appropriated. Such claim may not be denied by the body
responsible for the approval of claims if the claim complies with I.C. 5-11-10-
1.6, I.C. 5-11-14-1 and this section.
      (6)   Reimbursement for training that is not state called for Auditor,
Treasurer, County Clerk, Recorder or Surveyor can be reimbursed from the
Elected Officials Training Fund if there is enough appropriation in the budget
to cover the reimbursement; if not, it will be paid from the department’s
budget or other applicable department fund.
      (7)   Reimbursement for all other employees for business travel will be
out of that department’s budget or other applicable department fund.
   (C)   Out-of-state travel. Out-of-state travel is expressly prohibited
without the prior approval of the Board of Commissioners. Rules stated in
division (B) above apply.
   (D)   General guidelines. All travel upgrades require pre-approval of the
Board of Commissioners. Transportation costs to and from an airport shall be
reimbursed at the rate of the most economical option offered by the site.
   (E)   Companion traveling. County business travel with a companion is
allowed within the following rules:
      (1)   Lodging. The county will pay only the single room rate; the
employee is responsible for charges in excess of single occupancy.
      (2)   Meals. The county will reimburse employee meals only.
      (3)   Any allowed reimbursable expenditures will be paid by the county
for the employee only. No companion expenses will be reimbursed.
      (4)   Please refer to the White County personnel policy for further
instruction.
(Ord. 21-11-01-01, passed 11-1-2021; Ord. 22-03-07-01, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 32.13 ADA TRANSITION PLAN FOR PUBLIC FACILITIES.
   The “White County Americans with Disabilities (ADA) Transition Plan for
Public Facilities” is hereby approved and adopted in its entirety, and is
incorporated by reference herein as if fully recited as a part of this section.
(Ord. 22-07-05-02, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 32.14 COUNTY COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section’s policy and administrative
procedure is to establish guidelines for issuing firearms, the safe and legal
carrying of firearms, firearm maintenance, and firearms training. This policy
does not apply to issues related to the use of firearms that are addressed in
the use of force policy.
   (B)   Policy statement. This policy of the County Community Corrections is
to equip the Director and other authorized staff members with firearms to
address the risks posed to the public and staff members by violent and
sometimes well armed persons.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions are presented:
      QUALIFIED FIREARMS INSTRUCTOR. An individual certified by a competent
government or standards setting organization.
   (D)   Firearm standards.
      (1)   The County Community Corrections will ensure that firearms are
appropriate and in good working order and that relevant training is provided.
      (2)   No staff member of the County Community Corrections shall be
permitted to carry a firearm in the performance of their duties, unless said
staff member meets all the conditions of this policy.
      (3)   All staff member shall be provided a copy of this policy and will
sign a statement indicating that they have read and agreed to adhere to this
policy.
   (E)   Authorized firearms, ammunition, and other weapons.
      (1)   Staff members shall only use firearms that are issued and/or
approved by the County Community Corrections and have been thoroughly inspected
by a qualified firearms instructor. Except in the event of an emergency or as
permitted by the Director, no firearm shall be carried by a staff member who
has not qualified with said firearm at an authorized range.
      (2)   Any and all other weapons not provided by the County Community
Corrections, including but not limited to: edged weapons, chemical or
electronic weapons, impact weapons, or any weapon prohibited or restricted by
law or any weapon that is not otherwise permitted under the County Community
Corrections policy, may not be carried by staff members in the performance of
their official duties without the express written authorization of the
Director. This exclusion does not apply to the carrying of a single folding
pocketknife tool that is not otherwise prohibited by law.
   (F)   Handguns. The authorized department issued handgun will be of a make
and model that is chosen and approved by the Director.
   (G)   Ammunition. Staff members shall only carry the County Community
Corrections authorized ammunition. Staff members shall be issued fresh duty
ammunition in the specified quantity for each the County Community Corrections
issued firearm during the staff member's firearms qualification. Replacements
for unserviceable or depleted ammunition issued by the County Community
Corrections shall be dispensed by the Director or designee, as needed, and in
accordance with established policy.
   (H)   Off-duty carry. The carrying of the County Community Corrections
issued firearms while off duty is permitted but may be rescinded by the
Director at any time.
   (I)   Equipment. Firearms carried while on or off duty shall be maintained
in a clean, serviceable condition.
   (J)   Repairs or modifications.
      (1)   Each staff member shall be responsible for promptly reporting any
damage or malfunction of an assigned firearm to the Director or the qualified
firearms instructor.
       (2)   Firearms that are the property of the County Community Corrections
may be repaired or modified only by a person who is County Community
Corrections approved and certified as an armorer or gunsmith in the repair of
the specific firearm. Such modification or repair must be authorized in advance
by the Director or authorized designee.
   (K)   Holsters. Only County Community Corrections approved holsters shall be
used and worn by staff members. Staff members shall periodically inspect their
holsters to make sure they are serviceable and provide the proper security and
retention of the handgun.
   (L)   Safe handling, inspection, and storage. Staff members shall maintain
the highest level of safety when handling firearms shall consider the
following:
      (1)   Staff members shall not unnecessarily display or handle any
firearm.
      (2)   Staff members shall be governed by all rules and regulations
pertaining to the use of the range and shall obey all orders issued by the
qualified firearms instructor. Staff members shall not dry fire or practice
quick draws expect as instructed by the qualified firearms instructor or
another firearms training staff member.
      (3)   Staff members shall not place or store any firearm or other weapons
on the County Community Corrections premises except where the place of storage
is locked. No staff member shall carry firearms into a secure jail or
correctional facility, or any part thereof, but shall instead place firearms
into a secured location prior to entering.
      (4)   Any firearm that is authorized by the County Community Corrections
to be carried and that is determined to be malfunctioning or in need of service
or repair, shall cease being carried. It shall be promptly presented to the
Director or qualified firearms instructor for inspection and repair. Any
firearm that is deemed in need of repair or service by the qualified firearms
instructor shall be immediately removed from service. If the firearm is the
staff member's primary duty firearm, a replacement firearm will be issued to
the staff member until the primary duty firearm is serviceable.
      (5)   Firearms shall be inspected regularly and upon access or possession
by another person. The staff member shall ensure that the firearm is carried in
the proper condition and loaded with the approved ammunition. All firearms
shall be pointed in a safe direction or into clearing barrels.
      (6)   The County Community Corrections owned firearms shall be stored in
the appropriate equipment storage location. Firearms may remain loaded if they
are secured in an appropriate holster.
   (M)   Storage at home.
      (1)   Staff members shall ensure that all firearms and ammunition are
locked and secured while in their home, vehicle, or any other area under their
control, and in a manner that will keep them inaccessible to children and other
persons that should not have access.
      (2)   Staff members shall not permit County Community Corrections
firearms to be handled by anyone not authorized by the County Community
Corrections to do so.
      (3)   Staff members should acknowledge that negligent storage of a
firearm could result in criminal or civil liability.
   (N)   Alcohol and drugs. Firearms shall not be carried by any staff member,
while on or off duty, that has consumed any amount of an alcoholic beverage,
drugs. medication, or a combination thereof, that may cause adverse effects to
the staff member's senses or judgement.
   (O)   Firearms training and qualifications.
      (1)   Any staff member that carries a firearm while on duty shall be
required to successfully complete training biannually with said firearm. In
addition to biannual training, each staff member shall qualify at least
annually with their duty firearm. Training and qualifications must be conducted
by a qualified firearms instructor.
      (2)   Any staff member that carries a firearm while on duty is required
to successfully complete approved training which shall include:
         (a)   A minimum of four hours of firearm training annually; and
         (b)   A minimum of two hours of use of force/physical tactics training
      (3)   At least annually, staff members which carry a firearm shall
receive practical training on firearm safety as well as training that is
designed to simulate field situations including low-light shooting.
   (P)   Non-certification or non-qualification.
      (1)   If any staff member fails to meet minimum standards for firearms
training or qualification for any reason, including injury, illness, duty
status or scheduling conflict, that staff member shall submit a memorandum to
the Director prior to the end of the required training or qualification period.
      (2)   Staff members that fail to meet minimum standards or fail to
qualify on their first shooting attempt shall be provided remedial training and
will be subject to the following requirements:
         (a)   Additional range assignments may be scheduled to assist the
staff member in demonstrating consistent firearm proficiency.
         (b)   Staff members shall be given credit for a range training or
qualification when obtaining a qualifying score or meeting standards after
remedial training.
         (c)   No range credit will be given for the following:
            1.   Unauthorized range make-up; or
            2.   Failure to meet minimum standards or qualify after remedial
training.
      (3)   Staff members that repeatedly fail to meet minimum standards will
not be authorized to carry a firearm.
   (Q)   Firearm discharge.
      (1)   Except during training or recreational use, any staff member that
discharges a firearm intentionally or unintentionally, while on or off duty,
shall make a verbal report to local law enforcement and the Director as soon as
circumstances permit. If the discharge of a firearm occurs in a jurisdiction
outside that of the County Community Corrections, the law enforcement agency
with jurisdiction shall be notified. If the discharge results in injury or
death to another person, additional statements and reports shall be made in
accordance with the use of force policy. lf a firearm is discharged as a use of
force, the involved member shall adhere to the additional reporting
requirements set forth in the use of force policy.
      (2)   In all other cases, written reports shall be made as follows:
         (a)   If on duty at the time of the incident, the staff member shall
submit a written report to the Director or provide a recorded statement to
investigators prior to the end of shift, unless otherwise directed.
         (b)   If off duty at the time of the incident, the staff member shall
submit a written report or a recorded statement no later than the end of the
next regularly scheduled shift, unless otherwise directed by the Director.
      (3)   In the event of a firearm discharge; the Director shall notify the
County Community Corrections Advisory Board.
   (R)   Destruction of animals.
      (1)   Staff members are authorized to use firearms to stop an animal in
circumstances where the animal reasonably appears to pose an imminent threat to
human safety and when alternative methods are not reasonably available or would
likely be ineffective.
      (2)   In circumstances where there is sufficient advance notice that a
potentially dangerous animal may be encountered, staff members should develop
reasonable contingency plans for dealing with the animal, such as the use of
TASER, oleoresin capsicum (OC) spray, or animal control officers. Nothing in
this section shall prohibit any staff member from shooting a dangerous animal
if circumstances reasonably dictate that a contingency plan has failed or
become impractical.
   (S)   Warning and other shots. Warning shots are strictly prohibited.
Firearms may not be discharged for the purpose of summoning aid, unless the
staff member reasonably believes that they appear necessary, effective, and
reasonably safe.
   (T)   Applicability. This section is applicable to any County Community
Corrections staff members that are authorized and have chosen to carry
firearms.
(Res. 24-08-05-01, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any persons violating any provisions of §
32.01 of this chapter or the vehicle use or parking restrictions contained in a
local declaration of disaster emergency or a warning travel advisory shall be
guilty of the commission of an infraction and may be fined any sum not to
exceed $100 and such shall be enforceable in the County Superior Court of law
and, in addition to such fine, the Court shall be authorized to direct the
violator to repay the county any monetary losses or expenses incurred in the
incident.
(Ord. 12-01-17-01, passed 1-17-2012)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
Solid Waste Planning Fee
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Fee imposed
   
50.03   Responsibility for collections; remittance
   
50.04   Records
   
50.05   Conversion; factors
   
50.06   Application of fee
   
50.07   Solid Waste Planning Fund
   
50.08   Effective date
SOLID WASTE PLANNING FEE
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The White County Board of Commissioners.
   COUNTY AUDITOR. The Auditor of White County.
   FINAL DISPOSAL FACILITY. Has the meaning prescribed at I.C. 13-11-2-82.
   SOLID WASTE. Has the meaning prescribed at I.C. 13-11-2-205.
(Ord. 4-1990, passed 12-17-1990)
§ 50.02 FEE IMPOSED.
   (A)   A county solid waste planning fee is imposed at the rate of $1 per
ton, as adjusted from time to time by the appropriate board(s), on each ton of
solid waste disposed of at a final disposal facility in the county.
   (B)   The fee imposed under this subchapter may not be imposed after the
earlier of:
      (1)   The date on which the county is either designated a county district
or joins into a joint district; or
      (2)   12-31-1992.
(Ord. 4-1990, passed 12-17-1990)
§ 50.03 RESPONSIBILITY FOR COLLECTIONS; REMITTANCE.
   (A)   The owner or operator of a final disposal facility located in the
county is responsible for collecting the county solid waste planning fee
imposed under §
50.02(A) of this chapter from persons delivering solid waste to the final
disposal facility. The disposal facility owner or operator may deduct an amount
equal to 1% of the fees collected and may retain this amount as compensation
for collecting and remitting the fees.
   (B)   The remainder of the fees collected each month under division (A)
above shall be remitted to the County Auditor within ten days after the last
day of the month in which the fees are collected.
(Ord. 4-1990, passed 12-17-1990)
§ 50.04 RECORDS.
   The owner or operator of a final disposal facility shall make necessary
records available to an employee designated by the Board of Commissioners for
the purpose of verifying the amount of solid waste disposed of and the amount
of fees being collected and remitted to the County Auditor.
(Ord. 4-1990, passed 12-17-1990)
§ 50.05 CONVERSION; FACTORS.
   (A)   The owner or operator of a final disposal facility that does not have
a scale suitable for solid waste may determine the weight of the solid waste by
conversion from the volume of the solid waste.
   (B)   In making this conversion, an owner or operator shall use the
following conversion factors:
      (1)   Three and three-tenths cubic yards of compacted solid waste equals
one ton of solid waste; and
      (2)   Six cubic yards of uncompacted solid waste equals one ton of solid
waste.
(Ord. 4-1990, passed 12-17-1990)
§ 50.06 APPLICATION OF FEE.
   (A)   (1)   The fee imposed under §
50.02(A) of this chapter does not apply to solid waste that is received at a
final disposal facility pursuant to a contract entered into before 1-1-1990,
unless the contract contains a pass-through provision by which the transporter
of solid waste may recover the fees from the transporter’s client.
      (2)   (a)   Any solid waste for which an exemption under this section is
sought must be identified as to the particular contract which does not contain
the pass-through provision.
         (b)   A copy of any contract for which the owner or operator of a
final disposal facility desires to claim an exemption under this section must
be filed with the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The fee imposed under §
50.02(A) of this chapter does not apply to solid waste disposed of at a final
disposal facility by a person that:
      (1)   Generated the solid waste; and
      (2)   Disposes of the solid waste at final disposal facility that is
owned by that person and is limited, for the purposes of the disposal of solid
waste, to use by that person for the disposal of solid waste generated by that
person.
(Ord. 4-1990, passed 12-17-1990)
§ 50.07 SOLID WASTE PLANNING FUND.
   (A)   The County Auditor shall establish a fund to be known as the “White
County Solid Waste Planning Fund”. The Fund shall be administered in the same
manner as all other county funds.
   (B)   (1)   Money in the Fund may be used only for the following purposes:
         (a)   To pay expenses of administering the Fund; and
         (b)   To pay costs associated with the development of a district solid
waste management plan, including costs to develop information to enable the
county to determine whether its plan should be prepared for a county or joint
solid waste district.
      (2)   A description of the activities to be undertaken, together with an
estimate of the costs of such activities, is attached to the ordinance codified
herein as Exhibit A and is incorporated by reference herein as if set out in
full.
(Ord. 4-1990, passed 12-17-1990)
§ 50.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter took effect 1-1-1991, after adoption and compliance with
I.C. 36-2-4-8.
(Ord. 4-1990, passed 12-17-1990)
CHAPTER 51: EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM
Section
   
51.01   Enhanced emergency telephone system fee
§ 51.01 ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM FEE.
   (A)   There is created, under the authority of and subject to I.C. 36-8-16,
an emergency telephone system to serve the county. This fee shall be collected
from the telephone service users of the county and administered in accordance
with the following terms.
   (B)   A monthly fee of $2.20, as adjusted from time to time by the
appropriate board(s), per telephone access line or other exchange access
facility will be collected by the service supplier to pay the lease, purchase
or maintenance and operation of enhanced emergency telephone equipment,
including necessary computer hardware, software, database provisioning and
other costs; and the rates associated with the service suppliers’ enhanced
emergency telephone system network services.
   (C)   The service suppliers shall be entitled to retain an administrative
fee of 3% of the monthly fees collected as compensation for collecting the
fees.
   (D)   All monthly fees collected, except for the 3% administration fee,
shall be remitted to Treasurer of the county, within 20 days after the last day
of the calendar year quarter. With the fee remittal, the service supplier shall
provide a fee collection report on a form provided by the Treasurer.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall deposit the remitted fees in a separate fund named
the “White County Emergency Telephone System Fund”. The Treasurer may invest
moneys in the Fund in the same manner that other moneys of the county are
invested with the interest earned from such investment to be deposited in that
Fund.
   (F)   During January of each year, each service supplier that collects the
enhanced emergency telephone system fee for the county shall provide a
delinquent fee report to the Treasurer. The report shall list the name, address
and amount due for each service user who is two or more months delinquent in
paying the fee.
   (G)   Each service supplier shall commence collecting the enhanced emergency
telephone system fee from its service users in the month of January, 1997.
   (H)   This section was in full force and effect on the first day of the
second month after its passage by the County Council.
(Council Ord. 91-12-16-96, passed 12-16-1996)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
Water Wells
   
52.01   Inclusions and definitions
   
52.02   Permits and inspection
   
52.03   Pump installation
   
52.04   Use of wells for drainage purpose
   
52.05   Disinfection, samples and reports
   
52.06   Temporary wells and abandoning wells
   
52.07   Powers for inspection; enforcement; service of notices and orders;
hearings
   
52.08   Enforcement interpretation
   
52.09   Effective date
 
   
52.99   Penalty
WATER WELLS
§ 52.01 INCLUSIONS AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The minimum standards and requirements of said Bulletin No. S.E. 15
and said Bulletin No. S.E. 13 are adopted as those of said county and the
provisions thereof pertaining or adaptable to the subject matter and intents of
this subchapter are expressly incorporated hereby reference.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AQUIFER. A water-bearing formation or stratum.
      CASING. Steel or wrought iron pipe, type K cooper or other material
approved by the Health Officer, to exclude unwanted solids or liquids from the
interior of the well.
      CEMENT GROUT. A thorough mixture consisting of one bag of portland cement
(94 pounds) with five or six gallons of clean water. When such mixture cannot
be placed effectively, additives may be used provided shrinkage is held to a
minimum and the mixture will form a water-tight seal throughout the entire
depth required to prevent objectionable waters from entering the hole.
      FLUSHING. The act of causing a rapid flow of water from a well by
pumping, bailing or similar operation.
      GROUND WATER. Any water in natural state below the surface of the ground.
      HEALTH OFFICER. The duly appointed, qualified and acting Health Officer
of the county, or his or her authorized representative.
      NON-RESIDENTIAL WELL. Any well drilled for the use of one or two dwelling
units.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, cooperation, institution,
school, unit of government or officer or employee of any of the foregoing.
      POLLUTION. Such contamination or other alternation of the physical,
chemical or biological properties of water as to render such water harmful,
detrimental or injurious to public health or safety.
      POTABLE WATER. Water suitable for drinking or culinary purposes in its
natural state or through conditioning.
      PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY. One or more sources of ground water, including
facilities for conveyance thereof, such as wells, springs and pumps, other than
those serving a municipality or those operating as a public utility under the
rules of the State Public Service Commission.
      PUMP INSTALLER. Any individual, partnership, firm or corporation that
installs a pump in a well or opens the well to service a pump.
      RESIDENTIAL WELL. Any well drilled for the use of one or two dwelling
units.
      STUFFING BOX. An approved receptacle in which packing may be compressed
to form a water-tight or air-tight junction between two objects.
      TUBING. Metal, fiber or plastic pipe, used to withdraw water from a well.
A jet-type pump may require two strings of TUBING.
      WATER TABLE. The top surface or upper limit of the ground water zone.
      WELL. Any excavation, whether drilled, bored, driven, jetted or dug, for
the purpose of obtaining water from the ground or returning water to the ground
or for the purpose of testing the quantity or quality of such water or for
lowering (either temporarily or permanently) the ground water level or water
table.
      WELL DRILLER. Any individual, partnership, firm or cooperation that
produces, or contracts to construct, a well.
      WELL DRILLING. Any operation which produces a well.
      WELL SEAL. An approved removable arrangement or device used to cap a well
or to establish and maintain a water-tight junction between the casing or
curbing of a well and the piping or equipment installed therein, so as to
prevent unwanted water, or other contaminating material, from entering the well
at the upper terminal.
      WELL OWNER. Any legal owner of the real estate containing a well site.
      WELL VENT. An opening or outlet at the upper end of the well casing to
allow equalization of air pressure in the well.
      YIELD. The quantity of water per unit of time, which may flow or be
pumped from a well, when water level is remained stabilized for one hour or
longer.
(Ord. 1-78, passed 7-3-1978)
§ 52.02 PERMITS AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   Before commencement of construction of a well, an owner shall obtain a
written permit signed by the Health Officer, and the permit shall be posted in
a conspicuous place on the premises prior to the commencement of work
thereunder. No person shall perform any work on such project until such permit
is obtained and posted on the premises. The application for such a permit shall
be made on a form provided by the Health Department of said county, which
applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other information
as deemed necessary by the Health Officer. A permit and inspection as deemed
necessary by the Health Officer. A permit and inspection fee determined by the
County Board of Health shall be paid to said Health Department at the time the
application is filed. Such permit shall be void if the installation is not
completed in one year. In emergency situations, the well driller may drill the
well prior to obtaining his or her permit, but the water from such well shall
not be used for human consumption until the application for the permit has been
filed, the permit secured and the well inspected and approved. In such
emergency situations, the applicant for the well permit shall be obtained
within 24 hours of the regular scheduled work day after the start of the
emergency installation.
   (B)   The Health Officer shall be allowed to inspect the well installation
at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit
shall notify the Health Officer when the work is completed or of his or her
intention to abandon the well, all in compliance with this subchapter. The
inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of notice by the Health
Officer. Days not considered regular working days shall not be considered part
of the 48 hours’ notice.
   (C)   The Health Officer shall be allowed to inspect the pump installation
at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit
shall notify the Health Officer when the work will be ready for final
inspection at least four scheduled work hours before any underground portions
are covered. Such scheduled work hours shall be the work hours of said Health
Department.
(Ord. 1-78, passed 7-3-1978)
§ 52.03 PUMP INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Hand pumps. All hand pumps, stands or similar devices shall be
installed so that no unprotected opening connecting with the interior of the
pump exists. The pump spout shall be bolted to a mounting flange securely
fastened to the well casing. The top of the casing shall extend at least one
inch above the face of the flange.
   (B)   Power driven pumps. All power-driven pumps located over wells shall be
mounted on the well casing, a pump foundation or a pump, stand so as to provide
an effective well seal at the top of the well. Extension of the casing at least
one inch into the pump base will be considered an effective seal; provided, the
pump is mounted on a base plate or foundation in such manner to exclude dust
and insects and the top of the well casing is at an elevation at least two feet
above any known flood water level. Where the pump unit is not located over the
well and the pump deliver or suction pipe emerges from the top thereof, a
water-tight expanding gasket or equivalent well seal shall be provided between
the well casing and piping. A similar water-tight seal shall be provided at the
terminal of a conduit containing a cable for a submersible pump. All
submersible pumps should have one check valve located on the discharge line
above the pump and inside the casing. If the discharge pipe is at least 12
inches above the ground and sloped to drain into the well, the check valve may
be located in the house.
   (C)   Materials prohibited.
      (1)   No material will be used in the well or pump installation that will
result in the delivered water being toxic or having an objectionable taste or
odor.
      (2)   All metallic and non-metallic materials shall have sufficient
structural strength an of the properties to accomplish the purpose for which
installed. Flexible or non-rigid plastic pipe shall not be used for suspending
submersible pumps, unless having the physical properties to withstand the
torque and load to which it is subjected. Plastic pipe shall not be used unless
bearing the approval of the National Sanitation Foundation and unless having
the physical properties to withstand the torque and load to which it is
subjected.
(Ord. 1-78, passed 7-3-1978) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 USE OF WELLS FOR DRAINAGE PURPOSE.
   The use of a well for disposal of sewage or other material which may pollute
the potable underground water is prohibited.
(Ord. 1-78, passed 7-3-1978) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 DISINFECTION, SAMPLES AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Disinfections. To prevent contamination of the well or aquifer, the
casing pipe shall be thoroughly swabbed to remove oil, grease and joint dope,
using alkalis if necessary to obtain clean metal surfaces. The well or other
ground water development equipment, including the pumping equipment and gravel
used in gravel well construction, shall be disinfected with a solution
containing enough chlorine to leave a residual, or 25 parts per million, in the
well after a period at least 24 hours.
   (B)   Water samples. After pumping the well to remove all the disinfectant,
water samples, when deemed necessary by the Health Officer, shall be collected
from the installation and shall, by laboratory analysis, indicate the water to
be satisfactory before such installation shall be placed in service and water
samples shall be collected by the Health Office when deemed necessary.
(Ord. 1-78, passed 7-3-1978) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 TEMPORARY WELLS AND ABANDONING WELLS.
   A well to be temporarily abandoned, but which the owner intends to equip and
use at some future time, shall be temporarily sealed at the surface by a welded
or threaded cap or, in the case of a dug well, in a manner satisfactory to the
Health Officer.
(Ord. 1-78, passed 7-3-1978) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 POWERS FOR INSPECTION; ENFORCEMENT; SERVICE OF NOTICES AND ORDERS;
HEARINGS.
   (A)   The Health Officer, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter upon all properties at proper times for the purpose
of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing necessary to
carry out the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Whenever the Health Officer determines that there are reasonable
grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provisions of this
subchapter, he or she shall give notice of such alleged violation to the person
or persons responsible therefor, and to any known agent of such person, as
hereinafter provided. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be put in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of reasons why it is being issued;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;
      (4)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent, or the occupant, as
the case may require; provide that, such notice shall be deemed to be properly
served upon such owner or agent, or upon such occupant, of a copy thereof is
sent by certified mail to his or her last known address, or if a copy therefore
is posted in a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling affected by the
notice, or if he or she is served with such notice by any other method
authorized or required under the laws of this state; and
      (5)   Such notice must contain an outline or remedial action, which if
taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Any person affected by any such notice issued by the Health Officer
may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before said officer;
provided that, such person shall file in the office of the latter within ten
days after service of the forth a brief statement of the grounds therefor. Upon
receipt of such petition, the Health Officer shall arrange a time and place for
such hearing and shall give the petitioner written notice thereof. Such hearing
shall be held as soon as practicable after the receipt of request therefor. At
such hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be heard and to
show cause why such notice should not be complied with.
   (D)   After such hearing, the Health Officer shall sustain, modify or
withdraw the notice, depending upon his or her findings as to whether the
provisions of this subchapter have been complied with. If the Health Officer
shall sustain or modify such notice, it shall be deemed to be an order. Any
notice served pursuant to division (B) above shall automatically become an
order if a Health Officer within ten days after such notice is served. After a
hearing in the case of any notice suspending any permit required by this
subchapter, when such notice has been sustained by the Health Officer, the
permit shall be deemed to have been revoked. Any such permit which has been
suspended by a notice shall be deemed to be automatically revoked if a petition
for hearing is not filed in the office of the Health Officer within ten days
after such notice is served.
   (E)   (1)   Whenever the Health Officer finds that an emergency exists which
requires immediate action to protect the public health, he or she may, without
notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such an emergency
and require that such action be taken as he or she deems necessary to meet the
emergency.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the other provisions of this subchapter, such order
shall be effective immediately, but, upon petition to the Health Officer, shall
be afforded a hearing as soon as possible, in the manner provided in division
(C) above.
      (3)   After such hearing, depending upon the finding as to whether the
provisions of this subchapter have been complied with, the Health Officer shall
continue such order in effect, modify it or revoke it.
(Ord. 1-78, passed 7-3-1978)
§ 52.08 ENFORCEMENT INTERPRETATION.
   The Health Officer may adopt such rules and regulations as he or she deems
necessary for proper enforcement and to carry out the purpose and intent of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 1-78, passed 7-3-1978)
§ 52.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter is in full force and effect on and after 7-3-1978, subject
to its passage by the Board of County Commissioners and compliance to all laws
pertaining thereto.
(Ord. 1-78, passed 7-3-1978)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
52.01 through
52.09 of this chapter, except §
52.02(A) or (B) of this chapter, shall be served by the Health Officer, with a
written order stating the nature of the violation and providing a time limit
for satisfactory correction thereof. Any person found to be violating §
52.02(A) or (B) of this chapter immediately shall be subject to prosecution
therefor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to the penalties set forth in
division (B)(2) below.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation of §§
52.01 through
52.09 of this chapter beyond the time limit provided for in division (B)(1)
above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. On conviction, the violator shall be
punished for the first offense by a penalty of not more than $500, as adjusted
from time to time by the appropriate board(s), for the second offense by a
penalty of not more than $1,000, as adjusted from time to time by the
appropriate board(s); and for the third and each subsequent offense by a
penalty of not more than $1,000, to which may be added imprisonment for any
determinate period not exceeding 90 days and, each day after the expiration of
the time limit for abating the violation, shall constitute a distinct and
separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
52.01 through
52.09 of this chapter shall become liable to said county for any expense, loss
or damage occasioned by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 1-78, passed 7-3-1978)
CHAPTER 53: SEWERS
Section
On-Site Sewage Disposal
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Connection with sewers; new construction
   
53.03   Requirement for a private on-site sewage disposal system
   
53.04   Permits for addition, alteration, installation or repair
   
53.05   Site evaluation and soil profile analysis
   
53.06   Installer certification
   
53.07   Construction, installation, maintenance, operation and repair
   
53.08   Inspections
   
53.09   Holding tank regulations
   
53.10   Existing on-site sewage disposal system inspections
   
53.11   Prohibited acts
   
53.12   Defects
   
53.13   Violation and enforcement procedures
   
53.14   Fee schedule
   
53.15   Incorporation by reference
 
   
53.99   Penalty
ON-SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEDROOM. Any room in a residence that could be used for sleeping and
contains an area of 70 square feet or more of floor space, an operable window
or exterior door for emergency egress and, for new construction, a closet.
   BUILDING LOTS. All areas legally approved for the location of residential,
business, recreational or other buildings.
   COMBINATION SEWER. A sewer which receives both sewage and surface water
runoff.
   COMMERCIAL FACILITY. Any building or place not used exclusively as a
residential one- or two-family unit or outbuildings associated with a one- or
two-family residential unit.
   DISTRIBUTION BOX. A structure designed to equally distribute septic tank
effluent to the soil absorption system.
   EFFLUENT. Sewage that has received treatment from a septic tank or other
means approved by the Department before treatment in the soil.
   FILL. Materials not indigenous to the soil horizon and not deposited by
natural means.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The County Health Department.
   HEALTH NUISANCE. Any condition, which may be detrimental to the public
health, may spread or promote disease, provide food, harborage or breeding
medium for insects or rodents, or be a potential contaminate for surface or
ground water.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer of the local Health Department, as
referred to in I.C. 16-20, or his or her duly authorized representative.
   HOLDING TANK. A self-contained, leak-proof, water-tight reservoir used for
the purpose of collecting and temporary storage of sewage prior to proper
disposal of the sewage at an approval disposal facility (i.e., municipal sewage
treatment plant) by a licensed IDEM septic tank cleaner. The HOLDING TANK shall
be constructed to meet the ISDH standards for on-site sewage disposal system
septic tanks and shall have all outlets adequately sealed and protected so as
to prevent leakage or access by rodents or insects.
   IDEM. The Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   ISDH. The Indiana State Department of Health Department.
   LIMITING LAYER. Any subsurface horizon, which has a loading rate determined
from the soil loading rate tables utilized by the ISDH, of less than one-
quarter gallon per square foot per day or more than one and one-fourth gallons
per square foot per day. LIMITING LAYERS include bedrock, fragipans and water
tables.
   LOADING RATE. The allowable rate of application of septic tank effluent to
the soil. The LOADING RATE is to be expressed in gallons per day per square
foot.
   MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT. A signed and notarized legally binding agreement for
maintenance between the property owners of the agents of the property owners
and a licensed ISDH septic cleaner, granting and conveying to the cleaner by
the owners or agent of the owners an easement in gross to come upon the land
for the purpose of inspecting, repairing or cleaning the sewage holding tank
connected to the on-site sewage disposal system and/or serving the property.
   ON-SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM or ON-SITE SYSTEM. All equipment and devices
necessary for on-site conduction, collection, storage and treatment of sewage
and absorption in the soil from a residence or commercial facility.
   ON-SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM FAILURE or FAILURE. An on-site sewage
disposal system that exhibits one or more of the following:
      (1)   Soil absorption field refuses to accept sewage at the rate of
application thereby interfering with the normal use of plumbing fixtures or
resulting in the discharge of effluent to the ground surface or surface waters;
      (2)   Failure of or damage to any component of the on-site systems
thereby interfering with the normal use of plumbing fixtures or resulting in
the discharge of effluent to the ground surface or surface waters; and
      (3)   Effluent discharged from the on-site system causing a contamination
of a potable water supply, ground water or surface water.
   OWNER. The person whose name appears as the titleholder in the county’s real
estate records to the property being referenced.
   PERIMETER DRAIN. A trench constructed for the purpose of intercepting and
diverting near surface and surface water away from the private sewage disposal
system.
   PERMIT. A written document issued by the Health Department authorizing a
person to install, construct, maintain, operate or repair an on-site sewage
disposal system as per an approved plan, design and specification complying
with the provisions of this subchapter, the incorporated materials and
amendments thereto.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, firm, society, holding
company, trust, trustee, school, school district, association, company, estate
or any other legal entity, its or their successors or assigns of agents of the
aforesaid.
   PRIVATE ON-SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any sewage disposal system not
constructed, installed, maintained, operated and owned by a municipality, a
taxing district or a corporation possessing a certificate of territorial
authority issued by the State Regulatory Commission or its predecessor State
Public Service Commission or IDEM permitted systems, and established for that
purpose.
   PUBLIC SEWER. Any conduit for sewage constructed, installed, maintained,
operated, owned or defined as such by a municipality, a taxing district or a
corporation possessing a certificate of territorial authority issued by the
State Regulatory Commission or its predecessor State Public Service Commission
and established for that purpose. A system of conduits installed for the
purpose of carrying surface water runoff and subsurface water drainage shall
not be considered a PUBLIC SEWER unless the public sewer in question had been
defined as a combination sewer by ISDH.
   REPAIR PERMIT. A permit issued by the Health Department for the purpose of
adding to, altering, repairing or installing a private sewage disposal system
on a property on which there is an existing structure from which sewage may be
discharged.
   RESIDENCE. A single structure used or intended to be used for permanent or
seasonal human habitation for sleeping one or two families.
   SANITARY PRIVY. A fly-tight rodent proof sewage disposal system for the
purpose of disposal of body waste as presented in the ISDH Bulletin S.E. 11 and
amendments thereto.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SCS. The United States of America Department of Agricultural Soil
Conservation Service.
   SECONDARY TREATMENT UNIT. Any biological, chemical or physical process or
system for improving sewage effluent, after primary treatment and prior to
discharge to a soil absorption field.
   SEWAGE. The water-carried waste derived from ordinary living processes
including, but not limited to, human excreta and waste water derived from water
closets, urinals, laundries, sinks, utensil washing machines, bathing
facilities or similar facilities or appliances.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage.
   SITE EVALUATION AND SOIL PROFILE ANALYSIS. A report documenting the physical
characteristics of the local topography, soil profile, depth to bedrock (where
discernable), limiting layers, ground water levels and any other local features
which might affect the suitability of the site for the installation and
operation of a on-site sewage disposal system. This report shall be prepared by
a soil scientist, as defined herein.
   SOIL. Natural, non-filled mineral or organic matter on the surface of the
earth that shows the effects of genetic and environmental factors. These
effects include structure, color, mottling, horizons and limiting layers.
   SOIL ABSORPTION FIELD. The portion of the on-site sewage disposal system
that discharges effluent for absorption into the soil field.
   SOIL SCIENTIST. An individual who is registered as a professional soil
scientist with the Indiana Registry of Soil Scientist (IRSS) as provided for
under I.C. 25-31.5.
   STATE OF CONSTRUCTION. Means, but is not limited to, site improvements
related to a residence or commercial facility and includes excavation or an
existing grade for a foundation or footings or delivery of manufactured
housing.
(Ord. 05-10-03-01, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 53.02 CONNECTION WITH SEWERS; NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   Any business, dwelling, recreational building or other structure on property
which abuts on any alley, easement, right-of-way or street in which there is
located a public combination or sanitary sewer, and from which sewage may
originate, must connect to the public sewer if the sewer is accessible within
300 feet of the business, dwelling, recreational building or other structure.
(Ord. 05-10-03-01, passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 REQUIREMENT FOR A PRIVATE ON-SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   All one- and two-family dwellings, and any related structures from
which sewage may originate, not served by public sewer shall be served by a on-
site sewage disposal system that is constructed, installed, maintained and
operated in compliance with the standards set forth in ISDH Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-
8.1 and any applicable sections of this code.
   (B)   For any business, recreational building or other structure that is not
intended as a one- or two-family dwelling from which sewage may originate and
that is situated within the county and no public sewer system is available for
use or extension, there shall be established, installed, constructed,
maintained, operated and, if necessary, repaired an on-site sewage disposal
system that shall comply with the standards of the ISDH as contained in
Bulletin No. S.E. 11 or other such manner as approved by ISDH.
   (C)   Any business, dwelling, recreational building or other structure on
property, which abuts on any alley, easement, right-of-way or street in which
there is located a public sewer and from which sewage may originate, may
utilize an existing sewage disposal system that is not connected to the public
sewer when the sewage disposal system has not been found by the Health
Department to be a health nuisance. It shall be properly abandoned within 90
days of the receipt of written notice to do so from the Health Officer and a
connect to the public sewer, approved and inspected by the County Health
Department, shall be made.
(Ord. 05-10-03-01, passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 PERMITS FOR ADDITION, ALTERATION, INSTALLATION OR REPAIR.
   (A)   The owner or agent of the owner shall obtain a written permit, signed
by the Health Officer, for construction of an on-site sewage disposal system
prior to:
      (1)   Start of construction of a residence or placement of a mobile home,
which will not be connected to the public sewer;
      (2)   Any replacement, reconstruction of, expansion or remolding of a
residence, which may increase the number of bedrooms;
      (3)   Any addition to, alteration of, repair of an existing on-site
sewage disposal system or any component thereof; and
      (4)   Start of construction of a commercial facility to which no public
sewer is available for use or extension and from which sewage may originate.
   (B)   The application for such permit shall be made on a form provided by
the Health Department and shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications
and other information as is deemed necessary by the Health Department.
   (C)   A permit and inspection fee in the amount specified in §
53.14 of this chapter shall be paid to the Department at the time the
application is filed.
   (D)   A permit issued for an on-site sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed in compliance with the standards
set forth in this subchapter and its incorporated references in the approved
design of the system. All such installations shall be made in accordance with
plans and specifications approved by the Health Department for that particular
installation.
   (E)   The permit issued for an on-site sewage disposal system shall be
posted in a conspicuous place at or near the building where the on-site sewage
disposal system is under construction.
   (F)   Permits are not transferable and shall expire one year from the date
of issuance, as noted on the permit. Should the permit expire before the start
of construction on the on-site sewage disposal system, the owner will be
required to apply for a new permit.
(Ord. 05-10-03-01, passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 SITE EVALUATION AND SOIL PROFILE ANALYSIS.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued for the installation of a new on-site sewage
disposal system or the alteration, addition to or replacement of an existing
on-site sewage disposal system unless a site evaluation and soil profile
analysis has been completed for the intended on-site system location and filed
with the Health Department. Soil evaluations will not be required to repair
system components.
   (B)   Soil evaluations shall be conducted, at the discretion of the
Department, by a soil scientist or by the Department.
   (C)   Soil evaluations shall be conducted in compliance with 410 I.A.C. 6-
8.1.
   (D)   All subdivisions not served by a public sewer shall have a site
evaluation and soil profile analysis completed for each individual building lot
prior to the Health Department endorsing the project for recording.
   (E)   When the applicant for a private sewage disposal permit decides to
engage the services of the Health Department for the purpose of performing the
site evaluation and soil profile analysis on the property for which the permit
is being applied, the Health Department shall attempt to complete the analysis
within ten working days when the project contains less than ten individual
lots. Time calculations begin when the prerequisites for performing the
analysis imposed by the Health Department have been fulfilled by the
responsible party (e.g., surveying, staking of the property and the like).
(Ord. 05-10-03-01, passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 INSTALLER CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (G) below, no person shall construct,
install, replace or repair an on-site sewage disposal system or any component
thereof in the county unless that person has been certified as an installer and
possess a valid installer certification certificate issued by the Indiana On-
Site Wastewater Professionals Association (IOWPA).
   (B)   In order to become certified, a person must:
      (1)   File an application for certification with the IOWPA;
      (2)   Present a certified of liability insurance issued by a company
registered in the state showing coverage for the entire term of the
certificate. The liability policy shall be sufficient to indemnify persons for
whom faulty work may be performed on a minimum of $100,000;
      (3)   Demonstrate knowledge of the applicable laws, rules, regulations
and codes governing on-site sewage disposal systems by passing a proficiency
examination conducted by the IOWPA; and
      (4)   Provide IOWPA with proof of attendance for at least one training,
workshop or other educational activities concerning on-site sewage disposal
systems annually.
   (C)   Certificates issued hereunder shall be valid for a term of one year
beginning January 1 and expiring December 31 of the same year. The
certification shall bear name and address of the certified installer and the
certificate’s expiration date. Certificates shall not be transferable.
   (D)   Certificates shall be renewed annually. If a certificate is not
renewed within one month of the expiration date, the installer must reapply for
certification and pass the proficiency examination to become recertified.
   (E)   The installer shall maintain, in his or her possession, a copy of the
certification at all times when constructing, installing, replacing or
repairing an on-site sewage disposal system or any component thereof in the
county.
   (F)   A certified installer shall be on-site at all times during
construction, installation, replacement or repair of an on-site sewage disposal
system or any component thereof in the county.
   (G)   Property owners are subject to the following.
      (1)   Property owners may only construct, install, replace or repair an
on-site sewage disposal system or any component thereof, which serves their own
residences.
      (2)   Property owners will be required to pass the proficiency
examination prior to receiving a permit.
      (3)   Property owners will not be required to become certified or show
proof of insurance.
      (4)   Property owners are subject to this subchapter and all codes
incorporated by this subchapter, except as noted in holding tank regulations.
   (H)   At the discretion of the Health Department, a certification may be
revoked for flagrant or repeated code violations.
(Ord. 05-10-03-01, passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07 CONSTRUCTION, INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE, OPERATION AND REPAIR.
   (A)   On-site sewage disposal systems shall be constructed, designed,
installed, maintained and repaired to ISDH standards set forth in ISDH Rule 410
I.A.C. 6-8.1, this subchapter and the incorporated materials.
   (B)   No portion of an on-site sewage disposal system shall be constructed
on property other than the property from which the sewage originates unless
easements, which grant permission for such construction and access for sewage
disposal system maintenance, have been obtained, approved and recorded for that
property by the proper authority or commission.
   (C)   All materials and components used in the construction of on-site
sewage disposal systems in the county or any area under the jurisdiction of the
Health Officer shall be of a type approved by the ISDH or have written approval
of the ISDH and the Health Department. This includes distributions boxes,
gravel, sewage pumps, septic tanks, sewers and all other parts of a sewage
disposal system.
   (D)   No on-site sewage disposal system may be installed at a time when soil
moisture content is great enough so that the normal construction practices may
cause smearing of polishing of the sides of the trenches in the absorption
field portion of a sewage disposal system. Installation during such times shall
be grounds for the rejection of the sewage disposal system by the Health
Department.
   (E)   Any on-site sewage disposal system, which is designed to serve a
residence and utilizes three or more one-half or full bathrooms or any other
devices, which may consume an exaggerated amount of water, utilized separately
or in combination, shall be required to be served by an expanded absorption
field. The required addition shall be that amount of square footage of
absorption area for one bedroom as determined by the ISDH Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-
8.1.
   (F)   The installation of any on-site sewage disposal system not described
in ISDH Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1, Bulletin No. S.E. 11, and Bulletin No. S.E. 13
or in regulations of the Health Department may be approved by the Health
Department if those plans have prior approval from the Sanitary Engineering
Division of the ISDH. These systems shall be designated as experimental and
should such an experimental system cause or create a health hazard or nuisance
as determined by the Health Department, that system shall be replaced with a
standard subsurface absorption field or other site suitable system within 90
days after the receipt of the official written notice from the Health Officer.
   (G)   The Health Department may require the system be designed by a
professional engineer licensed in the state.
   (H)   Any privy located within the county shall be of the sanitary type and
shall be constructed, installed, maintained and repaired to specifications set
forth in ISDH Bulletin No. S.E. 11. All privies shall be constructed,
installed, maintained, operated and, when necessary, repaired so as to prevent
contamination of surface and ground water, exclude rodents and insects,
preclude health nuisances and be located so as to not interfere with or detract
from the rights of adjoining or potentially aggrieved property owners.
   (I)   Holding tanks may, at the discretion of the Health Department, be
required where there is existing sewage generating business, dwelling,
recreational building or other structure and there are no means for on-site
sewage disposal, to connect to the public sewer or adequate repairs to
eliminate a health nuisance.
   (J)   Whenever additions, alterations or repairs must be made to an existing
system in order to comply with the court orders, laws, ordinances or
regulations the Health Officer may waive any of the requirements of this
subchapter and ISDH regulations, if by doing so a potential health hazard may
be eliminated and so long as prior approval for that variance on ISDH
regulations has been obtained by the Health Department from the ISDH.
   (K)   Perimeter drains shall be located so as to adequately protect the
septic tank absorption field from surface water and near surface ground water
and shall extend to a sufficient depth to lower the seasonal water table below
the center of the septic tank absorption field system.
   (L)   At the discretion of the Health Department, a secondary treatment unit
may be required.
   (M)   On-site sewage disposal systems shall be installed in fill.
   (N)   On-site sewage disposal systems shall not be installed below the 100-
year flood elevation.
   (O)   Septic tanks installed after the date of this subchapter shall be
fitted with effluent filters capable of screening out suspend particles of one-
sixteenth inch or greater and sized to accommodate the daily design flow.
(Ord. 05-10-03-01, passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Health Officer shall be allowed to inspect the system at any stage
of construction.
   (B)   The owner or agent of the owner shall provide the Department with any
requested information or documentation regarding the installation.
   (C)   The applicant for the permit shall notify the Health Department when
the on-site system is ready for partial or final inspection.
   (D)   The inspection and determination shall be made within two working days
of the receipt of notification that the on-site system is ready for final
inspection.
   (E)   The inspection shall be completed before any portion of the system has
been covered with soil, except when there are extenuating circumstances as
determined by the Health Department. The authorized representative of the
Health Department allowing for the covering of the system prior to a completed
inspection shall set forth the extenuating circumstances in writing, and the
report shall be kept on file at the Health Department.
   (F)   In the event that an on-site sewage disposal system is covered with
soil before it can be properly inspected and approved by the Health Department,
the Health Department may require that the on-site sewage disposal system be
unearthed for inspection before a final approval of the system is given by the
Health Department.
   (G)   (1)   In the event an installation or repair cannot be approved by the
Health Department due to violations of this subchapter or the incorporated
ordinances, the Health Officer shall issue a red tag notice.
      (2)   This notice shall state the reason(s) the installation or repair
cannot be approved. This notice shall be given to the applicant, the installer
and to the County Building Commissioner, either in person or by other suitable
means.
   (H)   If the violation which is resulted in the red tag notice being issued
are corrected, written notification will be delivered to the applicant, the
installer and to the County Building Commissioner, either in person or by other
suitable means.
(Ord. 05-10-03-01, passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.09 HOLDING TANK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The minimum size of any holding tank approved for installation in the
county shall be 2,000 gallons.
   (B)   The maximum distance from the primary access road to the holding tank
shall not exceed 100 feet.
   (C)   All holding tanks shall be located in accordance with the requirements
for septic tanks, dosing tanks and lift stations in Table II of ISDH Rule 410
I.A.C. 6-8.1 and shall be located so as to be conveniently accessible for the
removal of the sewage by the party with whom the maintenance agreement is
reached.
   (D)   No property in the county shall be served by a holding tank unless the
owner or the agent of the owner is currently legally bound to a maintenance
agreement.
   (E)   (1)   The Health Department shall be provided with proof of payment to
the party into which the maintenance agreement for the removal of sewage from
the holding tank is reached within five working days of a written request from
the Health Department.
      (2)   Proof shall be in the form of a signed and dated receipt of a
canceled check dated appropriately.
   (F)   (1)   Every company, corporation or person who removes, and/or hauls,
the sewage from a holding tank or septic tank located in the county or under
the jurisdiction of the Health Department must be licensed by the state (ISDH)
and must register with the Health Department. The registrant must notify the
Health Department of every maintenance agreement, which expires or is canceled,
suspended or terminated.
      (2)   The notification must be in writing, include the address of the
property for which the agreement was in effect at the time of cancellation and
be delivered to the Health Department within 14 days from the date of
cancellation, suspension or termination.
   (G)   Audio and visual alarms designed to monitor the liquid level within
the holding tank must be installed and maintained in working condition on all
holding tanks permitted by the Health Department.
   (H)   Holding tank construction thickness specifications shall conform to
the minimum thickness standards for private sewage disposal tanks as required
in ISDH Regulation 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1.
   (I)   No permit shall be issued for the installation of a holding tank in
the county until a site evaluation and soil profile analysis has been conducted
by the Health Department, except where the slope of the site precludes the
installation of any other ISDH or Health Department approved on-site sewage
disposal system.
   (J)   Permits for the installation of holding tanks and privies shall be
issued only after it has been shown by any analysis, testing and measurement
that the Health Department may require that the property for which the permit
is being applied cannot be served by some form of on-site sewage disposal
system that can be approved by the ISDH and the Health Department or cannot
access a public sewer. A signed and notarized maintenance agreement shall be
filed with the Health Department prior to the permitting of installation of a
holding tank.
(Ord. 05-10-03-01, passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.10 EXISTING ON-SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   An existing on-site sewage disposal system inspection shall consist of
a records review, a visual inspection of the on-site sewage disposal system
location and a dye test.
   (B)   Requests for existing on-site sewage disposal system inspections shall
be made on an application provided by the Department and signed by the owner of
the property or the agent of the owner.
   (C)   The dwelling must have been supplied with running water used as a
primary place of residence for at least four weeks prior to a dye test.
   (D)   Dye tests will only be scheduled for periods which allow a department
representative to inspect the location for five consecutive days as part of the
normal work week.
   (E)   The Department will not endorse any subdivision or parcelization that
contains an existing dwelling(s) without dye testing that dwelling.
   (F)   Anyone who attempts to alter the results or an existing on-site sewage
disposal system test shall be subject to the penalties outlined in section
violation penalty.
(Ord. 05-10-03-01, passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.11 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It is a violation of this subchapter for any person to deposit, place
or permit any human excrement or sewage to be deposited in an unsanitary manner
upon public or private property in the country or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the county or the Health Officer.
   (B)   It is a violation of this subchapter to add to, alter, install, repair
or replace any non-commercial, non-municipal private sewage disposal system in
the county or any area under the jurisdiction of the county or the Health
Officer without first obtaining a permit from the Health Department, unless a
permit has been issued for that procedure by the ISDH.
   (C)   It is a violation of this subchapter to construct, install, replace or
repair an on-site sewage disposal system or any component thereof in the county
unless that person has been certified as an installer and possesses a valid
installer certification certificate issued by the Health Department, except as
noted in §
53.06(G) of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-10-03-01, passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.12 DEFECTS.
   (A)   Should any defects exist or occur in any private sewage disposal
system or privy in the county or any area under the jurisdiction which would
cause said sewage disposal system or privy to fail and/or cause a health
nuisance or unsanitary condition, the defect shall be corrected by the owner,
or agent of the owner, or occupant, or agent of the occupant within the time
limit set by the Health Officer in a written order stating the nature of the
violation and establishing a time limit for the corrective action to be
completed.
   (B)   The Health Officer shall be permitted to enter upon all properties
under the jurisdiction of the Health Officer at the proper time for the purpose
of inspection, measurement, observation and testing necessary to assure
compliance with this subchapter or incorporated materials.
(Ord. 05-10-03-01, passed 10-3-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.13 VIOLATION AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Health Officer shall be permitted to enter upon all properties at
the proper time for purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing necessary to assure compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this subchapter may
be served by the Health Officer with a written order stating the nature of the
violation and the time limit for completion of the corrective actions necessary
to eliminate the violation.
   (C)   After receiving the written order outlined in division (B) above from
the Health Officer, the owner, the agent of the owner, occupant or agent of the
occupant of the property upon which the violation has originated shall comply
with the provisions of this subchapter and the incorporated materials within
the time limit set forth in the order.
   (D)   Upon failure of the responsible person, as notified in division (B)
above, to comply with the provisions of the order issued by the Health Officer,
the Health Officer may issue a citation for the violation to the responsible
party using the uniform traffic ticket or similar citation form which shall be
issued to them.
   (E)   At the discretion of the Health Officer, a violation of this
subchapter may be referred to the County Attorney for legal action without the
issuance of a citation.
(Ord. 05-10-03-01, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 53.14 FEE SCHEDULE.
 
Permits                          Fee
Commercial systems               $100, as adjusted from time to time by the
                                 appropriate board(s)
Dye test: non-compliant dye test $70, as adjusted from time to time by the
                                 appropriate board(s)
New systems                      $50, as adjusted from time to time by the
                                 appropriate board(s)
Repair systems                   $50, as adjusted from time to time by the
                                 appropriate board(s)
 
(Ord. 05-10-03-01, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 53.15 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The following are incorporated by reference into this subchapter:
      (1)   410 I.A.C. 6-8.1;
      (2)   Bulletin No. S.E. 11; and
      (3)   Bulletin No. S.E. 13.
   (B)   Any additional codes, laws, ordinances or rules promulgated by
superior agencies are also included by reference into this subchapter.
   (C)   Any citation of incorporated materials shall be read as if “and
amendments thereto” are included in the citation.
(Ord. 05-10-03-01, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
53.01 through
53.15 of this chapter shall be subject to a civil fine of not less than $10,
nor more than $2,500, as adjusted from time to time by the appropriate board
(s), for each violation under the rules and regulation of the County Board of
Health.
      (2)   Each day a violation exists shall be considered a separate
violation and a civil penalty may be assessed for each day the violation
exists.
      (3)   In addition to the civil penalties provided for herein, the Health
Department may pursue any and all other actions and remedies provided by law.
(Ord. 05-10-03-01, passed 10-3-2005)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Weight restrictions on county roads
   
70.02   Speed limits on county roads
   
70.03   Parking regulations
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS ON COUNTY ROADS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of 16,000 pounds
on the roadways within the county between the dates of February 1 and May 1,
where said highways and roadways are posted to prohibit overweight vehicles.
   (B)   The County Highway Department, by its Supervisor, has the power to
permit the operation of overweight vehicles by special written exception.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 2-3-1986) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 SPEED LIMITS ON COUNTY ROADS.
   The limits specified hereinafter shall be maximum legal speeds allowed for
travel on the roadways of the county: 55 mph, unless otherwise marked and
designated by signs placed by the County Highway Department.
(Ord. 1984-3, passed 11-5-1984; Ord. 16-06-06-01, passed 6-6-2016) Penalty, see
§
70.99
§ 70.03 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle in or upon
the traveled portion of any county highway.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle so that
any part thereof is located within five feet of either edge of the improved
portion of any county or public highway. Any police officer who shall find a
motor vehicle parked in violation of this section may cause said motor vehicle
to be towed away and placed in storage and all charges as and for towing,
removing and storing said motor vehicle shall be a lien upon said motor vehicle
in favor of the person towing, removing and storing said motor vehicle,
pursuant to the order or direction of any police officer.
   (C)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-7-1978) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 .PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of §
70.01 of this chapter shall be punished by fine of not more than $500, as
adjusted from time to time by the appropriate board(s), and the costs of repair
of highways or roadways damaged by the operation of overweight vehicles shall
be assessed against the violator.
   (C)   Any person who shall park any motor vehicle in violation of §
70.03 of this chapter may be fined in an amount not exceeding $100, as adjusted
from time to time by the appropriate board(s), for each violation.
(Ord. 1-1978, passed 8-7-1978; Ord. 1986-1, passed 2-3-1996)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   County highway system; acceptance
   
90.02   Public right-of-way occupation permit fees
 
   
90.99   Penalty
   Appendix A: Minimum Requirements for Acceptance into County Highway System
and Cross Section
Cross-reference:
   Emergency telephone system, see §
51.01
   Traffic Code, see Title VII
   Zoning, see
Ch. 151
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 COUNTY HIGHWAY SYSTEM; ACCEPTANCE.
   (A)   The minimum requirements for acceptance into the county highway system
shall be as set out in Appendix A, attached at the end of this chapter.
   (B)   All highways and roadways shall have a drainage plan, as approved by
the County Drainage Board.
   (C)   All specifications in the aforementioned Appendix A shall be
considered to be minimum specifications and, upon the advice and direction of
the Supervisor of the County Highway Department, additional requirements may be
placed upon the highways and roadways prior to acceptance by the Board of
Commissioners of the county.
(Ord. 4-1988, passed 1-3-1989)
§ 90.02 PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPATION PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Permit fees. Right-of-way occupancy permit fees shall be as adopted by
the White County Board of Commissioners in the fee schedule.
   (B)   Bond. No permit shall be issued unless the applicant has also filed
with the White County Highway Superintendent a bond, with lawful corporate
surety or an indemnity insurance policy, in the sum of not less than $50,000
payable to the White County Board of Commissioners, conditioned to indemnify
and hold the county harmless against any and all claims or injury or damage to
persons or property resulting from the performance of work contemplated or any
act done pursuant thereto; or against any loss or liability resulting from the
maintenance of any such cable, wire, conduit or other attachments or equipment
so installed, or against any costs of repairing or remediating any work
performed by the applicant. Such bond shall be a continuing blanket bond for a
period of five years from the time work is completed. However, the White County
Highway Superintendent shall have discretion of requiring a specific larger
bond for larger projects on a per project basis.
(Ord. 20-12-28-01, passed 12-28-2020)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity performing any above or underground occupation of a
county right-of-way without first procuring a permit required under §
90.02, or in any other way violating any provision of §
90.02 shall be subject to a civil penalty in the sum of $1,500 per violation,
per day.
(Ord. 20-12-28-01, passed 12-28-2020)
APPENDIX A: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCEPTANCE INTO COUNTY HIGHWAY SYSTEM AND
CROSS SECTION
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e9aca77101d721ea1c626b184e63ea6bafe895f8/
IMAGES/0-0-0-505.jpg]
 
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCEPTANCE INTO COUNTY HIGHWAY SYSTEM
   1.   Minimum right-of-way shall be forty (40) feet.
   2.   Road bed width shall be as shown on the above cross section.
   3.   Side slopes and crown shall be as shown on the above cross section.
   4.   Requirements for stone or gravel road: Twelve (12) inches compacted
base of #1OF or #63 stone or screened or processed gravel.
   5.    Requirements for penetration road: Base to be the same as listed in
Item 4. One prime coat of .5 shot of prime oil using 5,867 gallons per mile and
chipped with #9 stone using 150 tons per mile to be followed at least three (3)
days later with (2) coats of asphalt; first coat is .5 shot of HFRS-2 using
5,867 gallons per mile and chipped with #9 or #11 stone using 150 per mile,
second coat is .3 shot of HFRS-2 using 3,520 gallons per mile and chipped with
#12 stone using 100 tons per mile.
NOTE:   No asphalt work shall be done when temperatures are below 50 degrees.
Roads meeting the above requirements will be accepted in the County Highway
System and will be maintained in type as they were accepted.
White County Highway Department
(Ord. 4-1988, passed 1-3-1989)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
   
91.01   Definition
   
91.02   Illustrative enumeration
   
91.03   Enforcement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. The doing of an unlawful act, the omitting to perform a duty or
the suffering or permitting any condition to be or exist, which act, omission,
condition or thing either:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the health or safety of others;
      (2)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch or drainage;
      (3)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; and/or
      (4)   Violates the zoning ordinances of the county.
(Ord. 02-02-04-01, passed 2-4-2002)
§ 91.02 ILLUSTRATIVE ENUMERATION.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting to be or
remain on any public or private property of the following items, conditions or
actions are declared to be a constitution of a nuisance; provided, however,
that, this enumeration shall not be deemed or construed to be conclusive,
limiting or restrictive:
   (A)   Noxious weeds and other rank vegetation, including, but not limited
to, grass and weeds, living or dead, the height of which exceeds 24 inches
above ground level, in a residential zone. The failure by any property owner to
cut said grass and weeds, living or dead, on his or her property shall be
evidence that said property owner is maintaining a nuisance;
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk and other abandoned
materials;
   (C)   Any building, mobile home or other structure which is in such a
dilapidated condition that it is unfit for human habitation, kept in such
unsanitary condition that it is a menace to the health of the people residing
in the vicinity thereof, or presents a more than ordinarily dangerous fire
hazard in the vicinity where it is located;
   (D)   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a reasonable
time after death;
   (E)   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot
or piece of ground in residential area;
   (F)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot or cinders in unreasonable
quantities;
   (G)   The obstruction of any public street, road or sidewalk;
   (H)   The obstruction of a dedicated easement or right-of-way;
   (I)   The alteration of the flow of storm water to the detriment of
surrounding property;
   (J)   Any junk vehicle. For the purpose of this division (J), a JUNK VEHICLE
shall be defined as a motor vehicle, or a part or parts from a motor vehicle,
not located in a licensed junk yard, which meets any one of the following
qualifications:
      (1)   It does not carry the current state registration (license plate);
      (2)   It cannot be safely operated under its own power; and/or
      (3)   It is not carried on the most recent tax records of the County
Assessor’s office (trucks and RVs).
   (K)   The discharge of any liquid onto the property of other persons,
including, but not limited to, the discharge of any water as the result of the
draining of a swimming pool or the operation of a sump pump; and
   (L)   The dumping or placing of any rubbish, trash, refuse, junk and other
materials, metals, lumber or other debris on the property of another without
the property owner’s express consent.
(Ord. 02-02-04-01, passed 2-4-2002) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   Whenever a nuisance is found to exist within the county, the County
Environmental Officer or the Sheriff’s Department may proceed to enforce
compliance with this chapter:
   (A)   By giving written notice to all persons holding a substantial interest
in the property upon which such nuisance exists or upon the person causing or
maintaining the nuisance, containing the following:
      (1)   An order to abate the nuisance within a certain time, which time
shall be reasonable under the circumstances;
      (2)   The location of the nuisance, if the same is stationary;
      (3)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
      (4)   A statement of the acts necessary to abate the nuisance; and
      (5)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed, the
county may abate such nuisance and assess the cost thereof against such person
or property.
   (B)   Upon the failure of the person upon whom notice to abate a nuisance
was served pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, a duly designated
officer or employee of the county may proceed to take any and all action
necessary, including, but not limited to, entry onto any property where the
nuisance exists, to abate such nuisance and shall prepare a statement of the
costs incurred in the abatement thereof.
(Ord. 02-02-04-01, passed 2-4-2002)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject
to the following penalties:
      (1)   First offense. Fine of not more than $50, as adjusted from time to
time by the appropriate board(s), plus any cost incurred by the county pursuant
to §
91.03(B) of this chapter;
      (2)   Second offense. Fine of $200, as adjusted from time to time by the
appropriate board(s), plus any cost incurred by the county pursuant to §
91.03(B) of this chapter; and
      (3)   Third offense. Fine of $500, as adjusted from time to time by the
appropriate board(s), plus any cost incurred by the county pursuant to §
91.03(B) of this chapter.
   (B)   Each day that the nuisance remains following the deadline given in the
notice constitutes a separate violation.
(Ord. 02-02-04-01, passed 2-4-2002)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Policy statement
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful practice
   
92.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
92.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
92.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
92.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
92.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
92.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
92.10   Exemptions
   
92.11   Administrative enforcement
§ 92.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of White County, Indiana to provide, within
constitutional limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as
provided for under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the
federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-
9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 21-03-01-01, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-3).
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6 (I.C. 22-9.5-2-4).
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
92.04 through
92.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person's major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 IAC 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in § 802 of Title 21 of the
United States Code (910 IAC 2-3-2(14)); nor does the term HANDICAP include an
individual solely because that individual is a transvestite (910 IAC 2-3-2
(14)).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries (I.C. 22-9.5-2-11).
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant (I.C. 22-
9.5-2-13).
(Ord. 21-03-01-01, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 92.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
92.10 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
92.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
92.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24 month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
92.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 21-03-01-01, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 92.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
92.03 and except as exempted by §
92.03(B) and §
92.10, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin;
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person;
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person; or
   (H)   For purposes of this division, discrimination includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
            4.   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for
Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically
handicapped people (commonly cited as "ANSI A117.1”) suffices to satisfy the
requirements of division (H)(3)(c)3.
      (4)   Nothing in this division requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
of safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 21-03-01-01, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 92.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term residential real estate-related
transaction means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate; or
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 21-03-01-01, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 92.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 21-03-01-01, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 92.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by sections §§
92.03 through
92.06.
(Ord. 21-03-01-01, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 92.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing
any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 21-03-01-01, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 92.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3, the definition of
FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 21-03-01-01, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 92.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, "housing for
older persons" means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program); or
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 21-03-01-01, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 92.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioners as set forth
in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official of the
White County, Indiana.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, White County,
Indiana, because of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully
administer enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this
chapter, herein elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of this
chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6; and the Chief
Elected Official of the White County, Indiana, shall refer all said complaints
to the Commission as provided for under division (A) above to said Commission
for purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided
for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the White County, Indiana
shall administer their departments, programs and activities relating to housing
and urban development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this
chapter and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the
Commissioners to further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the White County, Indiana, or the Chief
Elected Official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to
any aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 21-03-01-01, passed 3-1-2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BODY PIERCING AND TATTOO ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: BODY PIERCING AND TATTOO ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
110.01   Sanitary operation
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Tattoo operator training responsibilities
   
110.04   Operator responsibilities
   
110.05   Operator policies
   
110.06   Patron records
   
110.07   Illness
   
110.08   Handwashing
   
110.09   Personal protective equipment
   
110.10   Tattooing equipment
   
110.11   Dyes or pigments or other objects placed under the skin
   
110.12   Work environment
   
110.13   Infectious waste; containment, treatment and transport
   
110.14   Permits and inspections
   
110.15   Prohibited acts
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 SANITARY OPERATION.
   All places, individuals and businesses that offer to affix any type of
permanent tattoo to a person or performs body piercing to any person shall be
regulated by this chapter and shall maintain the premises and equipment used in
a sanitary manner.
(Ord. 02-06-03-01, passed 6-3-2002)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOOD. Human blood.
   BLOOD-BORNE PATHOGENS. Pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human
blood and can cause disease in humans. These PATHOGENS include, but are not
limited to the following:
      (1)   HBC;
      (2)   HCV; and
      (3)   HIV.
   BODY PIERCER. A person who performs body piercing on any individual.
   BODY PIERCING. The perforation of any human body part, other than an
earlobe, for the purpose of inserting jewelry or other decoration or for some
other non-medical purpose.
   CLEANED. Removal of all visible dust, soil or any other foreign material.
   CONTAMINATED. The presence or reasonably anticipated presence of blood or
OPIM on an item or surface.
   DECONTAMINATED. The use of physical or chemical means to remove, inactivate
or destroy blood-borne pathogens on a surface or item which does not require
sterilization to the point where they are no longer capable of transmitting
infectious particles and the surface or item is rendered safe for handling, use
or disposal.
   DEPARTMENT. The White County Department of Health. The County Board of
Health shall be considered part of the DEPARTMENT, except for the purpose of
conducting any type of administrative hearing for the appeal of any decision of
the DEPARTMENT or Health Officer.
   HBV. The hepatitis B virus.
   HCV. The hepatitis C virus.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The duly appointed Health Officer as set forth in I.C. 16-
20-2-16. The COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER or designee shall be designated as the
official in charge of enforcing this chapter. The HEALTH OFFICER may designate
someone in the Health Department to perform those duties and responsibilities
of the HEALTH OFFICER.
   HIV. The human immunodeficiency virus.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. Waste that epidemiologic evidence indicates is capable of
transmitting a dangerous communicable disease. INFECTIOUS WASTE includes, but
is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Contaminated sharps or contaminated objects that could potentially
become contaminated sharps;
      (2)   Infectious biological cultures, infectious associated biological
and infectious agent stock;
      (3)   Pathological waste;
      (4)   Blood and blood products in liquid and semi-liquid form;
      (5)   Carcasses, body parts, blood and blood fluids in liquid and semi-
liquid form, and bedding or laboratory animals; and
      (6)   Other waste that has been intermingled with infectious waste.
   OTHER POTENTIALLY INFECTIOUS MATERIALS or OPIM means the following:
      (1)   Human body fluids as follows:
         (a)   Semen;
         (b)   Vaginal secretions;
         (c)   Cerebrospinal fluid;
         (d)   Synovial fluid;
         (e)   Pleural fluid;
         (f)   Pericardial fluid;
         (g)   Peritoneal fluid;
         (h)   Amniotic fluid;
         (i)   Saliva in dental procedures;
         (j)   Any body fluid that is visibly contaminated with blood; and
         (k)   All body fluids where it is difficult or impossible to
differentiate between body fluids.
      (2)   Any unfixed tissue or organ, other than intact skin, from a human,
living or dead; and/or
      (3)   HIV-containing cell or tissue cultures and HIV- or HBV-containing
culture medium or other solutions; and blood, organs or other tissues from
experimental animals infected with HIV or HBV.
   PARENTERAL. Piercing the mucous membranes or the skin barrier through such
events as needlesticks, human bites, cuts or abrasions.
   PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT. Specialized clothing or equipment worn for
protection against contact with blood or OPIM.
   SECURE AREA. An area that is designated and maintained to prevent the entry
of unauthorized persons.
   SEMI-LIQUID BLOOD, BLOOD PRODUCTS. Blood and blood products that have
intermediate fluid properties and are capable of flowing in a manner similar to
liquid.
   STERILIZE. The use of a physical or chemical procedure to destroy all
microbial life, including highly resistant bacterial endospores.
   STORE. The containment of infectious waste in such a manner as not to
constitute collection, treatment, transport or disposal.
   TATTOO.
      (1)   Any indelible design, letter, scroll, figure, symbol or other mark
placed with the aid of needles or other instruments; or
      (2)   Any design, letter, scroll, figure or symbol done by scarring upon
or under the skin.
   TATTOO ARTIST. Any person who provides a tattoo to an individual or who
performs any type of piercing the mucous membranes or the skin through which
needles or other objects are inserted for temporary or permanent placement.
   TATTOO PARLOR. Any room or space where tattooing is provided or where the
business of tattooing is conducted.
   TONGUE SPLITTING. A surgical procedure where a linear vertical incision is
made to the tongue from the tip to toward the base creating a bifurcation.
   UNIVERSAL PRECAUTIONS. An approach to infection control in which all human
blood and certain human body fluids are treated as if known to be infectious
for HIV, HBV, HCV and other blood-borne pathogens.
(Ord. 02-06-03-01, passed 6-3-2002; Ord. 09-06-15-01, passed 6-15-2009)
§ 110.03 TATTOO OPERATOR TRAINING RESPONSIBILITIES.
   An individual or entity that is a tattoo operator or body piercer shall
comply with the following:
   (A)   Ensure that the training described in the State Occupational Safety
and Health Administration’s blood-borne pathogens standard (as found in 29
C.F.R. § 1910.1030) is provided to all tattoo artists, anyone employed by the
tattoo parlor or anyone acting on behalf of the tattoo parlor who has a
reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane or parenteral
contact with blood or OPIM;
   (B)   Ensure that training on the handling of infectious waste is provided
to all tattoo artists, anyone employed by the tattoo parlor or anyone acting on
behalf of the tattoo parlor who has reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye,
mucous membrane or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM;
   (C)   Ensure that a record of training described in division (B) above is
maintained, as required under the State Occupational Safety and Health
Administration’s blood-borne pathogens standard (as found in 29 C.F.R. §
1910.1030) of an individual’s participation in the training that is provided.
The record shall be made available to the Department for inspection upon
request; and
   (D)   Ensure that a record of training is maintained.
(Ord. 02-06-03-01, passed 6-3-2002) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 OPERATOR RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   All tattoo artists, body piercers or anyone employed by the facility
shall ensure, who has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous
membrane or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM shall complete the training
program that is required under the requirements of the State Occupational
Safety and Health Administration’s blood-borne pathogen standard (as found in
29 C.F.R. § 1910.1030).
   (B)   The operator shall require tattoo artists, anyone employed by the
facility or anyone acting on behalf of the facility who has a reasonably
anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane or parenteral contact with
blood to provide evidence of compliance with the universal precautions
education requirements contained herein.
   (C)   The operator shall display a description of compliance with the
requirements contained in division (D) below.
   (D)   The operator shall display written materials prepared or approved by
the Department explaining universal precautions and patrons’ rights under this
rule. These materials shall include information on how to report violations of
universal precautions and shall include information regarding the Department’s
duties to investigate.
   (E)   The operator shall ensure that no illicit drugs or alcohol are
consumed or permitted in the facility.
   (F)   The operator shall ensure that no tattoo shall be affixed to any
person who appears to have any form of impaired judgment due to a congenital
condition, drug or alcohol intoxication or for any other reason.
   (G)   For minors receiving a tattoo and/or body piercing, the procedure
shall only be done with written permission by parental/custodial parent or
guardian and the parent/custodial parent or guardian must be present during
procedure.
(Ord. 02-06-03-01, passed 6-3-2002) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 OPERATOR POLICIES.
   The operator shall develop a written policy in compliance with this rule and
the requirements of the State Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s
blood-borne pathogen standard (as found in 29 C.F.R. § 1910.1030) that:
   (A)   Requires the use of universal precautions when performing tattooing or
body piercing and any activity or duty that includes any reasonably anticipated
skin, eye, mucous membrane or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM;
   (B)   Requires disinfection or sterilization of contaminated reusable items;
   (C)   Includes the safe handling of infectious waste; and
   (D)   Provides sanctions, including discipline and dismissal, if warranted,
for failure to use universal precautions or handle infectious waste safely, or
both.
(Ord. 02-06-03-01, passed 6-3-2002)
§ 110.06 PATRON RECORDS.
   (A)   Records of each patron shall be maintained by the operator for two
years.
   (B)   The record shall include the following, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Patron’s name;
      (2)   Address;
      (3)   Age;
      (4)   Date tattooed or body pierced;
      (5)   Design of the tattoo;
      (6)   Location of the tattoo or body piercing;
      (7)   Jewelry or other decoration used; and
      (8)   Name of the tattoo artist or body piercer.
(Ord. 02-06-03-01, passed 6-3-2002)
§ 110.07 ILLNESS.
   Tattoo artists or body piercers who are experiencing symptoms of acute
disease that include, but are not limited to, the following shall refrain from
providing tattoos or body piercing:
   (A)   Diarrhea;
   (B)   Vomiting;
   (C)   Fever;
   (D)   Rash;
   (E)   Productive cough;
   (F)   Jaundice; and/or
   (G)   Draining (or open) skin infections, boils, impetigo or scabies.
(Ord. 02-06-03-01, passed 6-3-2002) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 HANDWASHING.
   (A)   Handwashing facilities shall be readily accessible where tattooing or
body piercing, or both, is provided.
   (B)   Hands shall be washed with soap and running water immediately before
putting on gloves and after removal of gloves or other personal protective
equipment.
   (C)   Only single use towels shall be used.
(Ord. 02-06-03-01, passed 6-3-2002) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.09 PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT.
   Appropriate personal protective equipment shall be worn as follows.
   (A)   A clean protective clothing layer shall be worn whenever there is a
reasonably anticipated risk of contamination of clothing by blood or OPIM.
   (B)   Masks in combination with eye protection devices, such as goggles or
glasses with solid side shield, or chin length face shield, shall be worn
whenever splashes, spray, splatter or droplets of blood or OPIM may be
generated and eye, nose or mouth contamination may be reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   Disposable gloves, such as surgical or examination type, shall be worn
during the tattooing or body piercing process. Gloves shall be changed and
properly disposed of each time there is an interruption in the application of
the tattoo or body piercing, when the gloves become torn or punctured, or
whenever the ability to function as a barrier is compromised. Disposable gloves
shall not be reused.
   (D)   Gloves shall be worn when decontaminating environmental surfaces and
equipment.
(Ord. 02-06-03-01, passed 6-3-2002) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 TATTOOING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Only single-use razors shall be used to shave the area to be
tattooed.
      (2)   All stencils shall be properly disposed of after a single use.
      (3)   If the design is drawn directly onto the skin, it shall be applied
with a single-use article only.
   (B)   (1)   Needles shall be individually packaged and sterilized prior to
use.
      (2)   Needles shall be single-use only.
      (3)   Needles shall be discarded in sharps’ containers immediately after
use.
      (4)   Contaminated needles shall not be bent or broken or otherwise
manipulated by hand.
   (C)   (1)   Heating procedures capable of sterilization must be used when
heat stable, non-disposable equipment is sterilized.
      (2)   Equipment that is to be sterilized shall be put in single-use
packaging.
      (3)   Records must be maintained to document the following:
         (a)   Duration of sterilization technique;
         (b)   Determination of effective sterility, such as use of a
biological indicator, is performed monthly; and
         (c)   Equipment is maintained as recommended by the owner’s manual,
and proof is available that the owner’s manual recommendations are reviewed
monthly.
      (4)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall not be stored or processed in
a manner that requires any person to reach by hand into the containers where
these sharp items have been placed.
      (5)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall be:
         (a)   Placed in puncture-resistant containers;
         (b)   Labeled with the biohazard symbol;
         (c)   Leakproof on both sides and bottom; and
         (d)   Stored in a manner that does not require reaching by hand into
the container where the equipment is stored until cleaning prior to
sterilization.
      (6)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall be effectively cleaned prior
to sterilization or disinfection.
      (7)   Any reusable contaminated equipment that comes into direct contact,
or is likely to come into direct contact, with an instrument that penetrates
the skin, other than a piercing gun, shall be effectively cleaned and
sterilized prior to use.
      (8)   All sterilized equipment shall not be removed from wrappers or
sterilized packaging until immediately prior to use.
      (9)   Any reusable equipment that comes into contact with mucus membranes
shall be effectively cleaned and sterilized prior to use.
      (10)   Piercing guns shall be cleaned and undergo, at a minimum, high
level disinfection after use and whenever visibly contaminated.
      (11)   All reusable equipment that has contact with intact skin shall
undergo, at a minimum, intermediate level disinfection.
      (12)   All other equipment used during the tattooing or body piercing
procedure shall be single use, including corks.
      (13)   All body piercers and tattoo artists shall comply with all other
equipment manufacturer’s recommendations.
(Ord. 02-06-03-01, passed 6-3-2002) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.11 DYES OR PIGMENTS OR OTHER OBJECTS PLACED UNDER THE SKIN.
   (A)   All dyes or pigments used in tattooing shall be from professional
suppliers specifically providing dyes or pigments for the tattooing of human
skin.
   (B)   In preparing dyes or pigments to be used by tattoo artists, only non-
toxic, sterile materials shall be used. Single-use or individual portions of
dyes or pigments in clean, single-use containers shall be used for each patron.
   (C)   After tattooing, the remaining unused dye or pigment in single-use or
individual containers shall be discarded along with the container.
   (D)   Any object placed under the skin shall be sterile.
(Ord. 02-06-03-01, passed 6-3-2002) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 WORK ENVIRONMENT.
   (A)   No tattooing or body piercing shall be conducted in any room used as
living quarters or in any room that opens directly into living or sleeping
quarters.
   (B)   Live animals shall be excluded from areas where tattooing or body
piercing is being conducted. This exclusion does not apply to the following:
      (1)   Blind persons;
      (2)   Partially blind persons;
      (3)   Guide dog trainers; and
      (4)   Persons with impaired hearing.
   (C)   Eating, drinking, smoking, applying cosmetics or handling contact
lenses shall not be allowed in work areas where there is a likelihood of
exposure to blood or OPIM.
   (D)   Food and drink shall not be kept in areas where there is a reasonably
anticipated risk of exposure to blood or OPIM.
   (E)   All equipment and environmental surfaces shall be cleaned and
disinfected after contact with blood or OPIM.
   (F)   Environmental surfaces and equipment not requiring sterilization that
has been contaminated by blood shall be cleaned and disinfected.
   (G)   All work surfaces shall be non-absorbent, easily cleanable, smooth and
free of breaks, open seams, cracks, chips, pits and similar imperfections.
   (H)   Disinfectant solutions shall be:
      (1)   A hospital grade, tuberculocidal Environment Protection Agency
(EPA) registered disinfectant; and
      (2)   Sodium hypochlorite, 0.5% concentration, by volume (common
household bleach in 10% concentration in water); the solution shall be dated
and shall not be used if it is more than 24 hours old.
(Ord. 02-06-03-01, passed 6-3-2002) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.13 INFECTIOUS WASTE; CONTAINMENT, TREATMENT AND TRANSPORT.
   (A)   Containment. Contaminated disposable needles or instruments shall be:
      (1)   Stored in leak-resistant containers;
      (2)   Puncture-resistant containers;
      (3)   Tightly sealed to prevent expulsion;
      (4)   Effectively treated in accordance with this rule prior to being
stored in an unsecured area and sent for final disposal; and
      (5)   Infectious wastes that are not contaminated sharps or objects that
could potentially become contaminated sharps shall be placed in containers that
meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Impervious to moisture;
         (b)   Sufficient strength and thickness to prevent expulsion;
         (c)   Secured to prevent leakage expulsion;
         (d)   Labeled with the biohazard symbol; and
         (e)   Effectively treated in accordance with this rule prior to being
placed in an unsecured area and sent for final disposal.
   (B)   Treatment and transport.
      (1)   All operators shall ensure that infectious waste is either treated
on-site in accordance with this rule or transported off-site for treatment in
accordance with this rule.
      (2)   A treatment is effective if it reduces the pathogenic qualities of
infectious waste for safe handling, is designed for the specific waste involved
and is carried out in a manner consistent with this rule. Effective treatment
may include:
         (a)   Incineration in an incinerator designed to accommodate
infectious waste;
         (b)   Steam sterilization;
         (c)   Chemical disinfection under circumstances where safe handling of
the waste is assured;
         (d)   Thermal inactivation;
         (e)   Irradiation; and
         (f)   Discharge in a sanitary sewer or septic system that is properly
installed and operating in accordance with state and local laws.
      (3)   All persons subject to this rule shall:
         (a)   Transport infectious waste in a manner that reasonably protects
waste haulers and the public from contacting a dangerous communicable disease;
and
         (b)   Effectively treat infectious waste in accordance with this rule
before it is compacted.
(Ord. 02-06-03-01, passed 6-3-2002) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.14 PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Permits. Each operator shall obtain a permit from the County Health
Department. The permit shall provide the name and address of the owner of the
business and the name and address of each and every tattoo artist located at
each location. The cost for a tattoo operator shall be $250, as adjusted from
time to time by the appropriate board(s), and shall not be transferable. The
cost for a body piercing permit shall be $25, as adjusted from time to time by
the appropriate board(s), and shall not be transferable. The permit expires on
December 31 of each year. Any holder of a permit shall be subject to inspection
as set forth herein. The County Health Department shall provide the appropriate
forms for this permit. Said permit shall be posted at the tattoo parlor in a
place where the tattoos are performed and clearly visible to the public.
   (B)   Inspections.
      (1)   The County Health Department shall conduct inspections of each and
every tattoo and body piercing facility located in the county. The County
Health Department shall conduct a minimum of three inspections per year.
Additional inspections may be conducted by the Department, as it determines
and/or in response to complaints submitted.
      (2)   The results of the inspections shall be provided to each operator.
      (3)   Violations noted by the Department shall be corrected immediately.
The Department shall conduct follow up inspections to determine compliance with
this chapter.
   (C)   Revocation of permit. The Health Officer may suspend or revoke the
permit of any tattoo operator or body piercer for any period of time for any
violation of this chapter, state or federal regulations concerning blood-borne
pathogens, tattoos or work place regulations (OSHA). The suspension and/or
revocation shall be effective upon issuance by the Health Officer.
(Ord. 02-06-03-01, passed 6-3-2002) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.15 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years may provided a tattoo or perform
body piercing upon another person or be employed by a person who, or an
establishment which, provides tattoos or body piercing.
   (B)   No person shall perform tongue splitting upon another person.
   (C)   No person shall provide a tattoo or perform body piercing upon another
person, except within an establishment licensed in the state for performing
tattoos or body piercing.
(Ord. 09-06-15-01, passed 6-15-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   If a tattoo or body piercing operator shall fail to obtain a
permit prior to the conduct of his, her or its business or at any time after
one has been issued, but has expired, the operator may be subject to a fine of
not more than $2,500. Each day the operator shall be in violation of this
chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The Health Officer may bring action in the Circuit or Superior
Court to enforce this chapter. The Health Officer shall be entitled to recover
all costs and expenses associated with any action for enforcement of this
chapter including attorney fees.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating §
110.15(A) of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in the sum of $500 per
occurrence.
      (2)   Any person violating §
110.15(B) of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in the sum of $1,500 per
occurrence.
      (3)   Any person violating §
110.15(C) of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in the sum of $2,500 per
occurrence.
      (4)   The fines set forth herein are supplemental to any criminal
penalties as may be provided by I.C. 35-42-2-7.
(Ord. 02-06-03-01, passed 6-3-2002; Ord. 09-06-15-01, passed 6-15-2009)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   K2/Spice regulations
   
130.02   Firearms
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 K2/SPICE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (“products”), such as K2/
Spice or similar products which contain one or more of the following chemical
compounds, shall not be sold, marketed or offered for sale within the county:
      (1)    (6aR,10aR)-9-(hydroxymenthyl)-6,6-dimethyl-3-(2methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a-tetra-hydrobenzo[c] chromen-1-01, also known as HU-210;
      (2)   l-Pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole, also known as JWH-018;
      (3)   l-Butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole, also known as JWH-073; and/or
      (4)   Any other equivalent compound or derivative.
   (B)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (“products”) may not be
burned, incinerated or ignited in any public place or on any property owned,
leased or controlled by the county.
   (C)   This section shall be in full force and effect upon passage and
publication pursuant to state law.
(Ord. 10-09-07-01, passed 9-7-2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 FIREARMS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to discharge a firearm or any kind,
including, but not limited to, handguns, rifles and shotguns, on, from or
across the water of the Big Monon Creek or within a strip of land measuring 50
feet from the water’s edge on the bank of said creek, beginning at the bridge
on CR 300 E in the county and extending to the bridge at CR 400 E in the
county.
      (2)   This division (A) shall be in full force and effect from and after
10-6-1980.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to discharge a firearm of any kind
including, but not limited to, handguns, rifles and shotguns, on, from or
across the waters of Lake Freeman and the Tippecanoe River or within a strip of
land measuring 50 feet from the water’s edge on the bank of said water,
commencing at Norway Dam in the county and extending to the southern edge of
the Highway 421/39 bridge extending over said Tippecanoe River/Lake Freeman in
the county.
      (2)   This division (B) shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage as provided by law.
(Ord. 1980, passed 10-3-1980; Ord. 04-09-07-01, passed 9-7-2004) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Persons or entities violating the provisions of §
130.01 of this chapter shall be subject to the penalty imposed for a Class B
infraction, as set forth in I.C. 34-28-5-4. Accordingly, §
130.01 of this chapter shall be enforced by the provisions of I.C. 34-28-5.
   (C)   (1)   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of §
130.02(A) of this chapter shall be punished by fine of not more than $1,000, as
adjusted from time to time by the appropriate board(s).
      (2)   Any person violating any provision of §
130.02(B) of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of up to $1,000, as
adjusted from time to time by the appropriate board(s). For purposes of §
130.02(B) of this chapter, each separate discharge of any firearm shall be
considered a separate violation of §
130.02(B) of this chapter and subject to a separate fine for violation thereof.
(Ord. 1980, passed 10-3-1980; Ord. 04-09-07-01, passed 9-7-2004; Ord. 10-09-07-
01, passed 9-7-2010)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODE; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   PLANNING AND ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODE; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Authority
   
150.04   Scope
   
150.05   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
150.06   Application for permits
   
150.07   Permit required
   
150.08   Permit and inspection fees
   
150.09   Other ordinances
   
150.10   Review of application
   
150.11   Inspections
   
150.12   Entry
   
150.13   Stop order
   
150.14   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.15   Violations
   
150.16   Right of appeal
   
150.17   Remedies
   
150.18   Effective date; application
   
150.19   Compliance with other ordinances and regulations
   
150.20   Conflict of interest in building permits
Commercial and Industrial Site Demolition
   
150.30   Definitions
   
150.31   Purpose and intent
   
150.32   Demolition application fees
   
150.33   Performance assurance
   
150.34   Administration
   
150.35   Application, application process and application approval and permit
issuance
   
150.36   Inspections
   
150.37   Inspection failure
   
150.38   Demolition hours
   
150.39   Appeal
   
150.40   Transfer of ownership
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   This chapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall be
known as the "Building Code of White County, Indiana", may be cited as such and
will be referred to herein as "this Code" or "this chapter".
(Ord. 13-09-03-01, passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 15-05-04-01, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards for the
protection of life, limb, health, environment, public safety and welfare, and
for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of building and
structures.
(Ord. 13-09-03-01, passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 15-05-04-01, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 150.03 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The White County Area Plan Executive Director, hereinafter referred to
as "Director", and the Building Inspector, hereinafter referred to as
"Inspector", are hereby authorized and directed to administer and enforce all
of the provisions of this chapter. Whenever, in this chapter, it is provided
that anything must be done to the approval of, or subject to, the direction of
the Director or Inspector, or any other officer of the Building and Planning
Department, this shall be construed to give such officer only the discretion of
determining whether this Code has been complied with; and no such provision
shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to what this
Code shall be, or power to require conditions not prescribed by law or to
enforce this Code in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner.
   (B)   The Director and Inspector, after having been designated as officers
to administer and enforce building regulations, shall be authorized to issue
building permits, collect fees, perform inspections, order correction of
violations of building regulations and authorize occupancy of buildings and
structures situated within the boundaries of the county.
(Ord. 13-09-03-01, passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 15-05-04-01, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 150.04 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this Code apply to the construction, alterations,
structural repair, use, occupancy and additions to all buildings and structures
other than mobile structures and/or industrialized building systems certified
under I.C. 22-15-4 in the county.
(Ord. 13-09-03-01, passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 15-05-04-01, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 150.05 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Building rules of the State Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission as set out in the following articles of Title 675 of the Indiana
Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by reference in this Code and shall
include later amendments to those articles as the same are published in the
Indiana Register as a final rule or the Indiana Administrative Code with
effective dates as fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 13, Indiana Building Codes;
      (2)   Article 14, Indiana One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code;
      (3)   Article 16, Indiana Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17, Indiana Electrical Codes;
      (5)   Article 18, Indiana Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19, Indiana Energy Conservation Code;
      (7)   Article 20, Indiana Swimming Pool Code;
      (8)   Article 22, Indiana Fire Prevention Codes;
      (9)   Article 25, Indiana Fuel Gas Code; and
      (10)   Article 28, National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standards.
   (B)   Copies of adopted building rules, codes and standards are on file in
the office of the Building and Planning Department.
(Ord. 13-09-03-01, passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 15-05-04-01, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 150.06 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   No permits shall be issued for the foregoing purposes, unless the
application for such permit is accompanied by plans and specifications showing
the work to be done, and listing the area of each level of the building and of
the garage in square feet. No local permits shall be issued hereunder until a
copy of a design release from the State Building Commission is received by the
Building and Planning Department if such design release is required. No
building permit will be issued to a person that would cause a violation of I.C.
22-15-3-7.
(Ord. 13-09-03-01, passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 15-05-04-01, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 150.07 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A permit shall be obtained before beginning construction or alteration
to mechanical, plumbing, electrical, or structural components of any primary
structure, exempting detached accessory structures that are 120 square feet or
less, and less than 30 inches above adjacent grade, using forms furnished by
the Building and Planning Department. All permits shall be authorized by the
Director or Inspector, and all fees provided for herein shall be paid to the
county. Construction of accessory structures less than 120 square feet and do
not require a permit shall be registered with the Building and Planning
Department of White County.
   (B)   A building permit expires and becomes void if;
      (1)   he work authorized by the permit is not started within three years
from the date of issuance. State imposed permit limitations may apply.
      (2)   The work authorized by the permit is not completed within ten years
from the date of issuance.
      (3)   The work authorized is completed and a certificate of occupancy is
issued.
(Ord. 13-09-03-01, passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 15-05-04-01, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 150.08 PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES.
   There shall be paid the fees prescribed in fee schedule as adopted by the
County Commissioners prior to the issuance of any building permit.
(Ord. 13-09-03-01, passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 15-05-04-01, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 150.09 OTHER ORDINANCES.
   All work done under any permit issued hereunder shall be in full compliance
with all other ordinances pertaining thereto.
(Ord. 13-09-03-01, passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 15-05-04-01, passed 5-4-2015)
 § 150.10 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit hereunder, the Director or
Inspector shall:
   (A)   Review all building permit applications to determine full compliance
with the provisions of this Code; and
   (B)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding and in compliance with county floodplain
regulations.
(Ord. 13-09-03-01, passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 15-05-04-01, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 150.11 INSPECTIONS.
   After issuance of any building permit hereunder, the Director or Inspector
shall make, or shall cause to be made, such inspections of the work being done
under such permit as is necessary to ensure full compliance with the provisions
of this Code and the terms of the permit.
(Ord. 13-09-03-01, passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 15-05-04-01, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 150.12 ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Director or Inspector or his or
her duly authorized representatives may enter at reasonable times any building,
structure or premises in the county to perform any duty imposed upon him or her
by this Code.
(Ord. 13-09-03-01, passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 15-05-04-01, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 150.13 STOP ORDER.
   Whenever work is being done contrary to the provisions of this Code, the
Director or Inspector may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on
any person engaged in the doing or causing such work to be done, and any such
persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the Director or
Inspector to proceed with the work.
(Ord. 13-09-03-01, passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 15-05-04-01, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 150.14 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No final approval of construction for any building or structure
erected or altered after the adoption of this Code shall be issued unless such
building or structure was erected or altered in compliance with the provisions
of this Code. Any commercial, industrial, public or residential building,
principal or accessory, shall require a certificate of occupancy issued by the
County Building and Planning Department, unless expressly exempted elsewhere in
this chapter.
   (B)   Issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall not be construed as an
approval of a violation of the provisions of this Code or of other ordinances
of the jurisdiction. Certificates presuming to give authority to violate or
cancel the provisions of this Code or other ordinances of the jurisdiction
shall not be valid.
(Ord. 13-09-03-01, passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 15-05-04-01, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 150.15 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as
owner, lessee, sub-lessee or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any
building or structure, permitted or inspected by §
150.08 of this chapter, other than fences in the county or cause or permit the
same to be done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this Code.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to occupy any such building or structure unless a
full, partial or temporary certificate of occupancy has been issued authorized
by the Building and Planning Department.
(Ord. 13-09-03-01, passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 15-05-04-01, passed 5-4-2015) Penalty,
see §
150.99
§ 150.16 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal the Director’s or Inspector’s
decisions pertaining to provisions of this Code, first through the County
Commissioners and then to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of
the state in accordance with the provision of I.C. 22-13-2-7 or I.C. 4-21.5-3-
7, as applicable.
(Ord. 13-09-03-01, passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 15-05-04-01, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 150.17 REMEDIES.
   The Director or Inspector shall, in the name of the County Commissioners,
bring actions in the Circuit or Superior Court of the county, for mandatory and
injunctive relief in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order
or orders, made by the Director or Inspector, and any such action for mandatory
or injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the penalties
provided for in this Code.
(Ord. 13-09-03-01, passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 15-05-04-01, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 150.18 EFFECTIVE DATE; APPLICATION.
   (A)   This Code shall be in full force and effect after its approval by the
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of the state, adoption by the
County Commissioners and publication as required by law.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to:
      (1)   All buildings or structures permitted under §
150.07 of this chapter after the effective date;
      (2)   All buildings or structures where construction or alteration has
begun, but is not completed;
      (3)   Conversions of buildings and structures, or parts of them, from one
occupancy classification to another; and
      (4)   The movement of buildings, structures and equipment for the
operation of buildings and structures.
(Ord. 13-09-03-01, passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 15-05-04-01, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 150.19 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER ORDINANCES AND REGULATIONS.
   No building permit shall be issued for the construction, extension,
remodeling, alteration or structural repair of any proposed or existing
building until the project has been checked for compliance with the county’s
Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Control Ordinance. Certain construction
projects may require a site plan for the project to be approved by the County
Surveyor, a driveway permit or letter to be issued by the State or County
Highway Departments and/or a septic permit or letter to be issued by the County
Board of Health.
(Ord. 13-09-03-01, passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 15-05-04-01, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 150.20 CONFLICT OF INTEREST IN BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Definitions For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Building Commissioner, Building Code Official or
Building Inspector for White County.
      CONFLICT OF INTEREST. A direct or indirect financial interest in the
issuance of a permit.
      PERMIT. As provided in I.C. 36-7-4-1109(b), as amended from time to time.
   (B)   Conflict report. Any time a building official identifies a situation
which present said building official with a conflict of interest, the building
official shall notify the Building and Planning Department Executive Director,
via the Conflict of Interest (COI) Disclosure Form, attached as Exhibit A to
Ordinance 19-06-03-01 and incorporated by reference as if full set forth
herein, available at the office of the Building and Planning Department, that
such conflict is present.
   (C)   Distribution. The Executive Director shall distribute a copy of the
COI Disclosure Form to all staff members.
   (D)   Routing. The staff member that issues the routing for the permit
application shall direct all relevant documents to the Executive Director for
any step of the permit process to which the building official is normally
assigned.
   (E)   Application and review. The Executive Director shall review the permit
application and package and, upon approval, shall authorize the permit to be
issued.
   (F)   Inspection and certificate of occupancy (CO). Any inspections
associated with the subject permit shall be scheduled for the Executive
Director to complete.
   (G)   Certificate of occupancy. Upon passage of all required inspections and
any other action required within the permit process, the Executive Director
shall authorize and endorse a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 19-06-03-01, passed 6-3-2019)
Cross reference:
   Conflict of interest policy, see §
32.08
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL SITE DEMOLITION
§ 150.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE DIRECTOR. The individual appointed by the White County Area
Plan Commission to manage and supervise the area plan staff or any appointee
designated by the White County Board of Commissioners.
   BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the
support, enclosure or protection of persons, animals, chattel or other
property.
   DEMOLITION. All activities affiliated with the destruction, removal, or
disposal of all or any part of a building or structure as well as site
restoration.
   PRIMARY CONTRACTOR. The entity or party responsible for all aspects of a
demolition process.
   PROPERTY OWNER. Any person or entity which has ownership or any other
interest in, or control of, any real estate and any structure, improvements, or
personal property situated thereon.
   SECONDARY CONTRACTOR. An entity or party subordinate to the primary
contractor with specific and limited responsibilities to a demolition process.
This also includes each person or entity to be used to haul any material and/or
building or structure from the site.
   SITE. An area of real estate defined by the smallest rectangle which
captures all buildings, structures, improvements, and maneuvering activities
pertaining to demolition.
   STAFF. The employees of the White County Area Plan Commission or any
employee or group of employees assigned by the White County Board of
Commissioners.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on or in
the ground or attachment to something having a location on or in the ground.
The term also includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a manufactured home, or a
prefabricated building. The term also includes recreational vehicles to be
installed on a site for more than 180 days and used in the conjunction of a
commercial or industrial use.
(Ord. 19-01-22-01, passed 1-22-2019; Ord. 22-10-17-01, passed 10-17-2022; Ord.
24-08-19-01, passed 8-19-2024)
§ 150.31 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This subchapter shall provide the means of regulating, administering and
supervising commercial and industrial sites which require or are in need of
demolition activities. However, any department or office of a local, state or
federal government conducting demolition activities or contracting for
demolition services on a property owned by said government is exempt from the
requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 19-01-22-01, passed 1-22-2019; Ord. 22-10-17-01, passed 10-17-2022; Ord.
24-08-19-01, passed 8-19-2024)
§ 150.32 DEMOLITION APPLICATION FEES.
   The following fees shall be charged and must be paid to the staff prior to
an application being considered complete, based upon the demolition site area:
 
$4,500  50,001 to 250,000 square feet
$7,500  250,001 to 500,000 square feet
$10,000 500,001 or more square feet, plus engineering costs under §
        150.33.
 
(Ord. 19-01-22-01, passed 1-22-2019; Ord. 22-10-17-01, passed 10-17-2022; Ord.
24-08-19-01, passed 8-19-2024)
§ 150.33 PERFORMANCE ASSURANCE.
   In addition to the required permit fee, a performance assurance shall be
posted in the following described amounts, made payable to the county in the
form of a surety bond issued by a corporation licensed to do business in
Indiana and approved by the Administrative Director, cash deposit, irrevocable
letter of credit, or other form of financial guarantee acceptable to the
Administrative Director. The performance assurance shall remain in full force
and effect during the entirety of the demolition activity under the demolition
permit until satisfactory completion thereof as determined by the
Administrative Director. The performance assurance is intended to provide the
county with assurance that the person or entity issued a demolition permit
performs its obligations required under the demolition permit, in full, but
shall not in any way limit the amount of obligations, fines, costs, or
liability owed by the person or entity issued a demolition permit. The county
may draw upon the performance assurance to the extent that the person or entity
issued a demolition permit fails or refuses to complete the demolition as
required under the demolition permit, in which case the county may complete the
remaining required demolition, paying the costs incurred therein from the
performance assurance draw proceeds. The amount of the performance assurance to
be posted shall be determined by the demolition site area upon which the
demolition activities are to take place, as follows:
 
Performance Assurance                          Square Feet of Demolition Site
$2,500,000                                     50,001 to 250,000
$5,000,000                                     250,001 to 500,000
As determined by third party engineer retained 500,001 or more
by county
 
(Ord. 19-01-22-01, passed 1-22-2019; Ord. 22-10-17-01, passed 10-17-2022; Ord.
24-08-19-01, passed 8-19-2024)
§ 150.34 ADMINISTRATION.
   This subchapter will be administered by the County Area Plan Commission
Staff under the guidance of the County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 19-01-22-01, passed 1-22-2019; Ord. 22-10-17-01, passed 10-17-2022; Ord.
24-08-19-01, passed 8-19-2024)
§ 150.35 APPLICATION, APPLICATION PROCESS AND APPLICATION APPROVAL AND PERMIT
ISSUANCE.
   The following regulations and guidelines establish the minimum application
requirements, the application process and application approval and permit
issuance pertaining to commercial and industrial demolition activities:
   (A)   Demolition application requirements. For purposes of this subchapter,
the term DEMOLITION APPLICATION refers to a completed demolition information
form (this form is available from the staff) as well as any and all documents
required by the demolition information form or this subchapter. The demolition
application shall also include any and all other documents, materials,
information and/or certifications requested by the Administrative Director
which, in the Director's opinion, are relevant to the planned demolition
activities. A demolition application is not considered complete until the fee
stipulated in § 150.52 is paid in full, with any performance assurance required
under §
150.33 herein.
   (B)   Scope. Any person or entity desiring to engage in demolition, as
defined herein, of any building or structure or associated parking areas or
incidental structures, with a site area of 50,000 or more square feet, utilized
for any commercial or industrial purpose, either active or passive, is required
to submit an application for each site targeted for such activity; although,
such application may cover parking areas or incidental structures associated
with the subject building or structure. No commercial or industrial demolition,
destruction or removal shall be allowed to occur without issuance of a unique
demolition permit authorized by the Administrative Director. No person or
entity shall be permitted to demolish, destroy, or remove only a portion of the
exterior wall of a building or structure in order to salvage or remove any
property within the building or structure, and a demolition permit to do so
will not be issued.
   (C)   Denial of demolition permit due to unpaid taxes. No person or entity
shall be granted a demolition permit if payment of the real estate and personal
property taxes assessed upon the real estate where the site is located is not
current.
   (D)   Persons or entities liable. The property owner and primary contractor
have the duty of compliance with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (E)   General performance standards. All commercial and industrial
demolition activities must comply with the following performance standards:
      (1)   Upon issuance of a demolition permit, the party to whom the permit
is issued is required to contact Indiana 811 for utility infrastructure
location a minimum of three days prior to the commencement of demolition
activities. No demolition activities may commence until after Indiana 811 has
completed utility markings;
      (2)   All laws, regulations and ordinances governing the disposal of
materials, debris, rubbish and trash on or off site shall be followed;
      (3)   No contractor, employee or equipment involved in the demolition or
any affiliated process to the demolition shall commit trespass on any private
property other than the subject site without written approval from that private
property owner being submitted to the staff;
      (4)   Any asbestos material encountered shall be disposed of in
accordance with the requirements of the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management. The primary contractor indemnifies the county, and every city or
town located in the county, of all asbestos materials and assumes all liability
for such materials and their proper disposal.
      (5)   Demolition permits are valid for a period of 60 days unless proper
written approval of a longer completion period is obtained from the Executive
Director of the County Area Plan Commission. Upon written request from the
property owner or primary contractor, a permit may be renewed for no more than
two 60 day periods unless authorized by the County Board of Commissioners.
      (6)   In the case where the demolition is to occur within an area covered
by a municipal water and/or sewer department or equivalent, written plan
approval is required from the jurisdictional department for disconnection of
water and sewer services. A copy of such written approval must be provided to
the staff prior to executing any disconnect activities.
      (7)   The primary contractor must assure the site is secured to protect
the general public, including small children, from the exposure to any work
hazards and from accessing the site during the demolition process.
      (8)   The primary contractor is responsible for maintaining control over
all demolition activities, on and off site, along with preventing exposing the
community to hazards created by such activities; including, but not limited to
nails and other tire puncturing items being dropped on the streets or abutting
property, trash or debris being left out in the open and damaged infrastructure
such as curbs, sidewalks, driveways, streets and drainage coverings and pipe.
      (9)   Any portion of the building or structure which extends below ground
must be removed a minimum of five feet below grade. These areas must be
restored with solid backfill only with the 12 inches first below grade being
filled with material which is 80% soil base with no stones larger than two
inches in diameter.
      (10)   Should any underground tanks be encountered, said tanks shall be
removed in accordance with the requirements of the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management. The primary contractor indemnifies the county, and
every city and town located in the county, and assumes all liability for
extraction and disposal of said tanks.
      (11)   The primary contractor shall be liable for any and all damage to
curbs, streets, alleys, driveways and all property damage caused as a result of
demolition and removal activities.
      (12)   The primary contractor is responsible to assure that manhole
covers, catch basin castings and fire hydrants are protected and left intact.
      (13)   At no time will structures or materials be burned or any other
fire be permitted on site unless the primary contractor has received written
approval from the County Environmental Officer to conduct such fires and has
submitted such written approval with the staff.
      (14)   The site shall be left in a finished condition where all rubbish,
debris, garbage, building or structure materials have been properly disposed of
and the site properly graded and seeded. All surface soil shall be suitable to
support vegetation and all disturbed ground seeded at a rate of 150 pounds per
acre using a park grass seed mix.
(Ord. 19-01-22-01, passed 1-22-2019; Ord. 22-10-17-01, passed 10-17-2022; Ord.
24-08-19-01, passed 8-19-2024)
§ 150.36 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Prior to issuing a demolition permit, the Administrative Director or
designee, shall inspect the property with the property owner or a designated
representative, to ensure that the property can be safely prepared for
demolition, that proper steps are planned to protect the public, and that
adequate access exists around the site to protect the developments of
neighboring property owners from collateral damage.
   (B)   After completion of all demolition activities, the property owner or a
designated representative, must contact the staff to arrange for a final
inspection. The Administrative Director or designee shall inspect the site to
confirm whether or not the site meets all finish requirements of this
subchapter as well as those called for in the demolition application. This
inspection process shall be repeated until such time as the site satisfies the
finished site conditions intended by this subchapter.
   (C)   Upon passage of a final inspection, the staff shall issue a
certificate of demolition completeness to the property owner. Until a
certificate of demolition completeness is issued, no improvement location or
building permits may be issued for the site.
(Ord. 19-01-22-01, passed 1-22-2019; Ord. 22-10-17-01, passed 10-17-2022; Ord.
24-08-19-01, passed 8-19-2024)
§ 150.37 INSPECTION FAILURE.
   Should the site fail any required inspection conducted by the Administrative
Director or designee, the property owner will be notified in writing of the
deficiencies identified from the inspection. The property owner shall have 30
days from the date of the notice to correct all deficiencies. In the event that
the property owner fails to remediate all deficiencies identified in the
inspection report, the property owner will be assessed fines in accordance with
§
150.99 herein.
(Ord. 19-01-22-01, passed 1-22-2019; Ord. 22-10-17-01, passed 10-17-2022; Ord.
24-08-19-01, passed 8-19-2024)
§ 150.38 DEMOLITION HOURS.
   Demolition activities shall not begin before 7:00 a.m. and shall cease no
later than 6:00 p.m.
(Ord. 19-01-22-01, passed 1-22-2019; Ord. 22-10-17-01, passed 10-17-2022; Ord.
24-08-19-01, passed 8-19-2024)
§ 150.39 APPEAL.
   Any fine assessment or enforcement action, including establishment of a
violation, or denial of demolition permit due to delinquent real estate taxes
under §
150.35(B) may be appealed to the County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 19-01-22-01, passed 1-22-2019; Ord. 22-10-17-01, passed 10-17-2022; Ord.
24-08-19-01, passed 8-19-2024)
§ 150.40. TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   No transfer of ownership of any site with an active demolition permit may
occur until the property owner on record receives a certificate of demolition
completeness.
(Ord. 24-08-19-01, passed 8-19-2024)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the provisions
of this Code, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to perform
any duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Director or
Inspector, or shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order given by
the Director or Inspector in connection with the provisions of this Code, for
each violation, failure or refusal, such person, firm or corporation shall be
fined in the sum of not less than $30 or more than $300. Each day of such
unlawful activity as is prohibited herein shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Failure to comply with the regulations, requirements and
responsibilities assigned by§§
150.30 through
150.40 or any other local, state or federal law or regulation pertaining to
site maintenance or demolition activities or failure to complete the demolition
project within the time frame allowed by the demolition permit, inclusive of
any properly received extensions, is a violation of §§
150.30 through
150.40  and subjects the property owner and primary contractor, jointly and
severally to a daily fine of $2,000 per day per violation. Each violation is
considered separate and unique and subject to the daily fine assessment. In
addition, the Administrative Director may revoke any demolition permit in the
event of any such violation, in which case all demolition activity shall cease
until such violation is remedied. All other remedies available at law or in
equity, including injunctive relief, shall be available to enforce §§
150.30 through
150.40 . Further, performing any demolition activity without a required
demolition permit, or demolishing, destroying or removing only a portion of an
exterior wall of a building or structure without a permit, shall subject the
property owner to a fine of $2,500 per day such violation exists. A person or
entity that has been adjudged to have committed a violation of §§
150.30 through
150.40  is liable to the County Board of Commissioners for court costs and its
attorney fees incurred in connection with enforcing this §§
150.30 through
150.40  and collecting fines.
(Ord. 13-09-03-01, passed 9-3-2013; Ord. 15-05-04-01, passed 5-4-2015; Ord. 19-
01-22-01, passed 1-22-2019; Ord. 22-10-17-01, passed 10-17-2022; Ord. 24-08-19-
01, passed 8-19-2024)
CHAPTER 151: PLANNING AND ZONING
Section
   
151.01   Planning fee schedule adopted by reference
   
151.02   Zoning regulations adopted by reference
§ 151.01 PLANNING FEE SCHEDULE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The county’s fee schedule for planning permits and the like, and any and all
amendments thereto, is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as
if set out in full.
(Ord. 09-03-02-01, passed 3-2-2009; Ord. 11-05-02-02, passed 5-2-2011)
§ 151.02 ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The county’s zoning regulations, and any and all amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 08-08-04-02, passed 8-4-2008; Ord. 08-11-17-01, passed 11-17-2008; Ord.
08-12-29-01, passed 12-29-2008; Ord. 09-10-19-01, passed 10-19-2009; Ord. 09-
10-19-03, passed 10-19-2009; Ord. 10-04-19-001, passed 4-19-2010; Ord. 10-07-
19-01, passed 7-19-2010; Ord. 10-07-19-02, passed 7-19-2010; Ord. 10-10-18-01,
passed 10-18-2010; Ord. 11-05-02-01, passed 5-2-2011; Ord. 11-05-16-03, passed
5-16-2011; Ord. 11-11-21-01, passed 11-21-2011; Ord. 13-04-15-02, passed 4-15-
2013; Ord. 13-11-18-02, passed 11-18-2013)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES, AGREEMENTS AND DEVELOPMENTS
      
II.   BONDS
      
III.   FUNDS
      
IV.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES, AGREEMENTS AND DEVELOPMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.                   Date Passed Description
3-1988                          8-15-1988   Granting a cable franchise to
                                            Hometown Cable, Inc.
91-05-06                        6-17-1991   Forming the Northwest Indiana
                                            Solid Waste District
                                            Agreement; recycling and disposal
92-4-3                          4-20-1992   facility development and
                                            operation; non-reversion of moneys
R. 99-1                         8-18-1999   TIF District; Walmart and Jordan
                                            Development
R. 99-2                         9-20-1999   Transferring the cable television
                                            franchise
R. 2006-12-18-06                12-18-2006  Escrow agreement; White County
                                            Memorial Hospital project
R. 2007-01-15-01                1-15-2007   Wolcott Corridor economic
                                            development
R. 07-06-04-02                  6-4-2007    TIF District; Verasun
                                            Economic development agreement;
R. 09-01-19-01                  1-19-2009   Meadow Lake Windfarm, LLC,
                                            agreement
Council 2009-1-19-01            1-19-2009   Meadow Lake Windfarm, LLC,
                                            agreement approval
09-04-20-03                     4-20-2009   Agreement between Valero Energy
                                            and the Town of Reynolds
Council R. 2009-08-17-01        8-17-2009   Horizon Wind agreements, Phase II
R. 09-08-17-02                  8-17-2009   Horizon Wind agreements, Phase II
Council R. 2010-01-18-01        1-18-2010   Wind Farm, Phase 3
R. 10-01-18-03                  1-18-2010   Wind Farm, Phase 3
Council R. 2010-01-18-02        1-18-2010   Wind Farm, Phase 4
R. 10-01-18-04                  1-18-2010   Wind Farm, Phase 4
Council R. 2010-01-18-03        1-18-2010   Wind Farm, Phase 5
R. 10-01-18-05                  1-18-2010   Wind Farm, Phase 5
R. 2011-02/ Council R. 2011-12- 12-19-2011  Wolcott Corridor economic
19-01                                       development
R. 13-03-18-01                  3-18-2013   Economic development agreement
                                            with MAG Pellet, LLC
R. 13-04-01-01                  4-1-2013    Amendment; economic development
                                            areas and agreement
R. 13-12-16-01                  12-16-2013  Monticello Expanded TIF District
R. 15-03-16-02                  3-16-2015   Wolcott Corridor Area TIF District
2015-04                         10-16-2015  Interlocal agreement City of
                                            Monticello
R. 16-02-16-02                  2-16-2016   Agreements for Wind Farm Phase 5
92-4-3, Amendment 1             10-3-2016   Division of funds from landfill
                                            tipping fees
                                            Approving request to Indiana
14-09-15-02                     9-15-2014   Department of Insurance for
                                            enrollment in Insurance Proceeds
                                            Set Aside Program
R 18-11-19-03                   11-19-2018  White County- Liberty Landfill
                                            Host Agreement
92-4-3, Amendment 2             12-27-2019  Division of funds from landfill
                                            tipping fees
92-4-3, Amendment 3             1-18-2022   Division of funds from landfill
                                            tipping fees
92-4-3, Amendment 4             7-5-2022    Division of funds from landfill
                                            tipping fees
                                            Using Host Agreement Reserve Fund
92-4-3, Amendment 5             11-21-22    for new recycle center; holding
                                            Host Reserve Fund in reserve upon
                                            completion
                                           
 
TABLE II: BONDS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
-             4-3-1974    General obligation bonds for reconstruction after
                          tornado damage
1985          9-16-1985   Economic development revenue bonds; Howard & Sons,
                          Inc., project
2006-10-16-02 10-16-2006  General obligation bond for hospital expenses
                         
 
TABLE III: FUNDS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.            Date Passed Description
1-1987                   3-2-1987    Pretrial Diversion Fund
4-1990                   12-17-1990  Solid Waste Planning Fund
91-04-03                 4-15-1991   Corrections Fund
91-07-07                 7-15-1991   Law Enforcement Forfeiture Fund
91-11-10                 11-18-1991  Health Department Gift Fund
92-3-1                   3-2-1992    Corrections Fund
1992-17-7-92             12-7-1992   Sheriff’s Aid Enforcement Fund
2-16-93                  2-16-1993   Corrections Fund
98-4-15-1                8-15-1994   Community Corrections Fund
96-2-20-1                2-20-1996   Corrections Fund
91-3-3-97-1              3-3-1997    Corrections Fund
99-2-1-1                 1-1-1999    Corrections Fund
99-12-20-02              12-20-1999  Emergency Management Aid Fund
05-08-01-02              8-1-2005    Identification Security Protection Fund
Council R. 2009-04-20-04 4-20-2009   Wind Farm Economic Development Fund
Council R. 2009-05-18-01 5-18-2009   Verasun Economic Development Revenue Bond
                                     Fund
11-08-22-03              8-22-2011   Pretrial Deferral and Diversion Fund
13-08-19-02              8-19-2013   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
13-11-18-01              11-18-2013  Reimbursement Account Fund
14-06-02-01              6-2-2014    Soil and Water Conservation District
                                     Payroll Fund
16-12-05-01              12-5-2016   Farm Cash Rent Fund
2021-05-03-01            5-3-2021    ARP Grant Fund
21-09-07-01              9-7-2021    Veterans' Burial Allowance
2021-12-20-02            12-20-2021  Sheriff's Sale Fund
2021-12-20-03            12-20-2021  Recycle Donations Fund
2022-07-18-02            7-18-2022   Road Use Agreement Funds
22-08-15-01              8-15-2022   Economic Development Reserve Fund
22-08-15-02              8-15-2022   White County Agricultural Association
                                     Reserve Fund
2022-12-19-01            12-19-2022  Fund 4102 Veterans Donation Fund
23-04-17-02              4-17-2023   Non-reverting APC Repurposing Fund
                                    
 
TABLE IV: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord./  Date
Res.   Passed   Description
No.
00-02- 2-22-    Old jail disposal
22-02  2000
R. 06-          White County Memorial Hospital lease between the County
07-03- 7-3-2006 Hospital Association and Hospital Board of Trustees
01
R. 06- 7-3-2006 White County Memorial Hospital lease between the County
07-01           Hospital Association and Hospital Board of Trustees
R. 06- 7-21-    White County Memorial Hospital lease between the County
07-21- 2006     Hospital Association and Hospital Board of Trustees
03
07-12- 12-17-   Transfer of the White County Memorial Hospital’s Medical Arts
17-01  2007     Building
               
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites          Code Section
1-1-1-5             10.04
1-1-1-7             10.12
1-1-1-8             10.06 
1-1-4-5             10.05
1-1-5-1             10.11
1-1-6-1             10.08
3-11-10-25          30.17
3-11-10-39          30.17
4-21.5-3-7          150.16
5-1-14-14(b)        31.14
5-3-1               31.15
5-11-1-27(e)        31.10
5-11-10-1.6         32.12
5-11-14-1           32.12
5-14-1.5            Ch. 30, App. A
5-14-1.5(a)         Ch. 30, App. A
5-14-1.5-1 et seq.  32.11
5-14-1.5-5(d)       Ch. 30, App. A
5-22                31.05
5-22-2              31.15
5-22-2-21           31.15
5-22-2-25           31.15
5-22-2-26           31.15
5-22-3-5            31.15
5-22-5-5            31.15
5-22-7              31.15
5-22-9              31.15
5-22-9-4            31.15
5-22-10             31.15
5-22-10-4           31.15
5-22-10-5           31.15
5-22-10-6           31.15
5-22-10-7           31.15
5-22-10-8           31.15
5-22-10-9           31.15
5-22-10-10          31.15
5-22-10-11          31.15
5-22-10-12          31.15
5-22-10-13          31.15
5-22-10-14          31.15
5-22-10-15          31.15
5-22-10-16          31.15
5-22-10-17          31.15
5-22-10-19          31.15
6-9-10.5-7          31.02
6-9-10.5-8          31.02
6-9-10.5-9          30.18
6-20-2-16           110.02
7.1-5-12-3          32.05
                    30.15,
10-14-3             Ch. 30, App. A,
                    32.01
10-14-3-1           Ch. 30, App. A
10-14-3-2           Ch. 30, App. A
10-14-3-3           Ch. 30, App. A
10-14-3-12          Ch. 30, App. A,
                    32.11
10-14-3-15          Ch. 30, App. A
10-14-3-17          Ch. 30, App. A
10-14-3-17(c)       Ch. 30, App. A
10-14-3-17(d)       Ch. 30, App. A
10-14-3-17(d)(2)(A) Ch. 30, App. A
10-14-3-17(d)(2)(B) Ch. 30, App. A
10-14-3-17(h)       Ch. 30, App. A
10-14-3-17(i)       Ch. 30, App. A
10-14-3-17(j)(5)    Ch. 30, App. A
10-14-3-22          Ch. 30, App. A
10-14-3-22(b)(2)    Ch. 30, App. A,
                    32.01
10-14-3-24          Ch. 30, App. A
10-14-3-26          Ch. 30, App. A
10-14-3-27          Ch. 30, App. A
10-14-3-27(a)       Ch. 30, App. A
10-14-3-27(b)       Ch. 30, App. A
10-14-3-27(c)       Ch. 30, App. A
10-14-3-29          32.01 ,
                    32.11
10-14-3-29(a)       Ch. 30, App. A
10-14-3-29.5        Ch. 30, App. A
10-14-3-31          Ch. 30, App. A
10-19-2-1           Ch. 30, App. A
13-11-2-82          50.01
13-11-2-205         50.01
16-20               53.01
22-9-1-4 et seq.    92.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.    92.01
22-9.5-2-2          92.02
22-9.5-2-3          92.02
22-9.5-2-4          92.02
22-9.5-2-8          92.02
22-9.5-2-9          92.02
22-9.5-2-11         92.02
22-9.5-2-13         92.02
22-9.5-3            92.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.    92.10
22-9.5-4-8          92.11
22-9.5-5            92.02
22-9.5-5-1          92.03
22-9.5-6            92.02,
                    92.11
22-13-2-7           150.16
22-15-3-7           150.06
22-15-4             150.04
25-31.5             53.01
Art. 31-16          30.27
31-37-1-2           30.27
32-24               Ch. 30, App. A
Ch. 33-40-3         30.27
33-40-7-5           30.27
34-28-5             130.99
34-28-5-4           130.99
34-47-3             32.09
35-31.5-2-75        30.27
35-41-1-8           32.09
35-41-1-17          32.09
35-41-1-25          32.09
35-42-2-7           110.99
35-47-1-5           32.09
35-47-8-1           32.09
35-47-8-2           32.09
35-47-8-3           32.09
35-47-15 et seq.    31.08
36-1-3-8(a)(10)     10.99
36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B)  Ch. 30, App. A
36-1-7-12           31.15
36-2-2              Ch. 30, App. A
36-2-2-8            Ch. 30, App. A
36-2-2-8(b)         Ch. 30, App. A
36-2-4-3            Ch. 30, App. A
36-2-4-8            32.11,
                    50.08
36-2-5-3(a)         Ch. 30, App. A
36-5-2-2            10.15
36-7-4-3            30.19
36-7-4-1109(b)      150.20
36-8-3-20           30.22
36-8-16             51.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.              Date Passed Code Section
--                    4-26-1961   30.25
1992-11-16            11-16-1992  30.21
12-29-93-1            12-29-1993  30.02
-                     12-21-1998  30.20
99-1                  8-18-1999   TSO Table I
99-2                  9-20-1999   TSO Table I
2002-02               5-6-2002    30.20
06-07-01              7-3-2006    TSO Table IV
06-07-03-01           7-3-2006    TSO Table IV
06-07-21-03           7-21-2006   TSO Table IV
2006-12-18-06         12-18-2006  TSO Table I
2007-01-15-01         1-15-2007   TSO Table I
07-06-04-02           6-4-2007    TSO Table I
09-01-19-01           1-19-2009   TSO Table I
Council 2009-04-20-04 4-20-2009   TSO Table III
Council 2009-05-18-01 5-18-2009   TSO Table III
Council 2009-08-17-01 8-17-2009   TSO Table I
09-08-17-02           8-17-2009   TSO Table I
10-01-18-03           1-18-2010   TSO Table I
10-01-18-04           1-18-2010   TSO Table I
10-01-18-05           1-18-2010   TSO Table I
Council 2010-01-18-01 1-18-2010   TSO Table I
Council 2010-01-18-02 1-18-2010   TSO Table I
Council 2010-01-18-03 1-18-2010   TSO Table I
10-06-07-01           6-7-2010    32.03
-                     6-15-2011   30.20
2011-02               12-19-2011  TSO Table I
Council 2011-12-19-01 12-19-2011  TSO Table I
13-03-18-01           3-18-2013   TSO Table I
13-04-01-01           4-1-2013    TSO Table I
13-12-16-01           12-6-2013   TSO Table I
13-12-30-02           12-30-2013  30.16
14-11-17-02           11-17-2014  31.08
15-03-16-02           3-16-2015   TSO Table I
16-02-16-02           2-16-2016   TSO Table I
18-11-19-03           11-19-2018  TSO Table I
20-03-16-01           3-3-2020    31.13
2020-05-18-01         5-18-2020   31.14
21-05-17-02           5-17-2021   32.11
22-05-16-01           2-1-2022    31.13
-                     4-4-2022    32.03
22-04-26-01           4-25-2022   TSO Table IV
24-08-05-01           8-5-2024    32.14
                                 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.             Date Passed Code Section
-                    1-1-1964    30.23
10-73                5-29-1973   31.12
-                    1-1-1974    30.23
-                    4-3-1974    TSO Table II
                                 52.01 
1-78                 7-3-1978    52.09,
                                 52.99
1-1978               8-7-1978    70.03,
                                 70.99
1980                 10-3-1980   130.02,
                                 130.99
1984-3               11-5-1984   70.02
1985                 9-16-1985   TSO Table II
1986-1               2-3-1986    70.01,
                                 70.99
1-1987               3-2-1987    TSO Table III
3-1988               8-15-1988   TSO Table I
4-1988               1-3-1989    90.01,
                                 Ch. 90, App. A
                                 50.01 
4-1990               12-17-1990  50.08,
                                 TSO Table III
91-02-01             2-1-1991    31 07
91-03-02             3-4-1991    30.22
91-04-03             4-15-1991   TSO Table III
91-05-06             6-17-1991   TSO Table I
91-07-07             7-15-1991   TSO Table III
91-11-10             11-18-1991  TSO Table III
91-12-16             12-16-1991  30.24
92-3-1               3-2-1992    TSO Table III
92-4-3               4-20-1992   TSO Table I
1992-17-7-92         12-7-1992   TSO Table III
2-16-93              2-16-1993   TSO Table III
98-4-15-1            8-15-1994   TSO Table III
96-2-20-1            2-20-1996   TSO Table III
Council 91-12-16-96  12-16-1996  51.01
91-3-3-97-1          3-3-1997    TSO Table III
92-5-19-97-1         5-19-1997   31.06
01-03-05-01          6-15-1998   31.05
96-6-15-98-2         6-15-1998   31.05
91-6-15-98-3         6-15-1998   31.05
99-2-1-1             1-1-1999    TSO Table III
99-11-15-2           11-15-1999  31.04
99-12-20-02          12-20-1999  TSO Table III
00-02-22-02          2-22-2000   TSO Table IV
                                 91.01 
02-02-04-01          2-4-2002    91.03,
                                 91.99
02-04-01-01          4-1-2002    31 03
                                 110.01 
02-06-03-01          6-3-2002    110.14,
                                 110.99
04-09-07-01          9-7-2004    130.02,
                                 130.99
05-08-01-02          8-1-2005    TSO Table III
                                 53.01 
05-10-03-01          10-3-2005   53.15,
                                 53.99
05-10-03-02          10-3-2005   30.24
06-05-15-01          5-15-2006   30.19
2006-10-16-02        10-16-2006  TSO Table II
08-06-07-01          8-6-2007    32 04
07-12-17-01          12-17-2007  TSO Table IV
08-08-04-02          8-4-2008    151.02
08-11-17-01          11-17-2008  151.02
08-12-29-01          12-29-2008  151.02
Council 2009-1-19-01 1-19-2009   TSO Table I
09-03-02-01          3-2-2009    151.01
09-04-20-03          4-20-2009   TSO Table I
                                 110.02,
09-06-15-01          6-15-2009   110.15,
                                 110.99
09-10-19-01          10-19-2009  151.02
09-10-19-03          10-19-2009  151.02
10-02-16-01          2-16-2010   32.02
10-04-19-001         4-19-2010   151.02
10-07-19-01          7-19-2010   151.02
10-07-19-02          7-19-2010   151.02
10-09-07-01          9-7-2010    130.01,
                                 130.99
10-10-18-01          10-18-2010  151.02
11-05-02-01          5-2-2011    151.02
11-05-02-02          5-2-2011    151.01
11-05-16-03          5-16-2011   151.02
11-08-01-01          8-1-2011    30.18
11-08-22-03          8-22-2011   TSO Table III
11-11-21-01          11-21-2011  151.02
11-12-05-01          12-5-2011   30.01
12-01-17-01          1-17-2012   32.01,
                                 32.99
12-02-06-01          2-6-2012    32 02
12-02-21-03          2-21-2012   30.17
                                 30.36,
12-12-17-01          12-17-2012  Ch. 30, App. B &
                                 C
13-04-15-02          4-15-2013   151.02
13-06-03-01          6-3-2013    31.01
13-07-01-01          7-1-2013    30.15,
                                 Ch. 30, App. A
13-08-19-02          8-19-2013   TSO Table III
                                 150.01 
13-09-03-01          9-3-2013    150.19,
                                 150.99
13-11-18-01          11-18-2013  TSO Table III
13-11-18-02          11-18-2013  151.02
14-03-03-01          3-3-2014    30.35
14-06-02-01          6-2-2014    TSO Table III
14-09-02-01          9-2-2014    30.37
14-09-02-01, Amd. 1  9-20-2014   30.37
14-09-15-02          9-15-2014   TSO Table I
2015-01              1-20-2015   31.09
                                 150.01 -
15-05-04-01          5-4-2015    150.19,
                                 150.99
2015-04              10-16-2015  TSO Table I
16-01-19-02          1-19-2016   32.06
16-06-06-01          6-6-2016    70.02
16-06-06-02          6-6-2016    31.10
16-06-06-03          6-6-2016    32.05
92-4-3, Amd. 1       10-3-2016   TSO Table I
16-12-05-01          12-5-2016   TSO Table III
16-12-05-02          12-5-2016   32.07
17-10-02-01          10-2-2017   32.08
17-11-06-01          11-6-2017   31.11
18-05-21-02          5-21-2018   32.09
18-11-05-01          11-5-2018   30.38
18-12-28-01          12-28-2018  30.39
                                 150.30 -
19-01-22-01          1-22-2019   150.39,
                                 150.99
19-04-01-01          4-1-2019    32.10
19-06-03-01          6-3-2019    150.20
19-06-03-02          6-3-2019    31.11
19-08-19-05          8-19-2019   31.02
19-08-19-06          8-19-2019   30.26
92-4-3. Amd. 2       12-27-2019  TSO Table I
20-12-28-01          12-28-2020  90.02,
                                 90.99
21-03-01-01          3-1-2021    92.01 -
                                 92.11
2021-05-03-01        5-3-2021    TSO Table III
21-09-07-01          9-7-2021    TSO Table III
21-11-01-01          11-1-2021   32.12
21-11-15-01          11-15-2021  31.15
21-12-20-02          12-20-2021  TSO Table III
21-12-20-03          12-20-2021  TSO Table III
92-4-3, Amd. 3       1-18-2022   TSO Table I
22-03-07-01          3-7-2022    32.12
22-04-19-02          4-19-2022   30.39
22-07-05-01          7-5-2022    32.10
22-07-05-02          7-5-2022    32.13
92-4-3, Amd. 4       7-5-2022    TSO Table I
2022-07-18-02        7-18-2022   TSO Table III
22-08-15-01          8-15-2022   TSO Table III
22-08-15-02          8-15-2022   TSO Table III
                                 150.30 -
22-10-17-01          10-17-2022  150.39,
                                 150.99
92-4-3, Amd. 5       11-21-2022  TSO Table I
22-12-05-01          12-5-2022   32.02
2022-12-19-01        12-19-2022  TSO Table II
23-04-17-02          4-17-2023   TSO Table II
23-05-15-02          5-15-2023   31.16
24-05-20-01          5-20-2024   30.27
                                 150.30 -
24-08-19-01          8-19-2024   150.40,
                                 150.99
                                
 
 
 
 
 
