WINAMAC, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-8 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 18 of 2024, passed 10-2-2024; and
   State legislation current through 2024 Indiana Legislative Service, Pamphlet
No. 3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE 5 OF 2004
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE TOWN OF WINAMAC, INDIANA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2004 supplement to the code of ordinances of the Town of Winamac,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since the prior codification of the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Winamac; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain section of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Town Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF WINAMAC:
   SECTION 1
That the 2004 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Winamac as
submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio and as
attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
   SECTION 2
Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the Town Council and the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Winamac is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   SECTION 3
This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of the Town of Winamac, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Winamac on this 12th day
of April, 2004.
Kenneth McFarland /s/                Jason Hague /s/
Ken McFarland, Council President                  Jason Hague
DeAnna Pletka /s/                Jack Winters /s/
DeAnna Pletka                        Jack Winters
Rudy DeSabatine /s/
Rudy DeSabatine
Attest: Judy Heater /s/
   Judy Heater Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE # 4 OF 2015
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF WINAMAC, INDIANA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2014 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Winamac,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since the prior codification of the Code of Ordinances of Town of
Winamac; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Town Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF WINAMAC:
   SECTION I
That the 2014 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Winamac was
submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as
attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
   SECTION II
Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the date of its adoption and
approval by the Town Council and the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Winamac is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   SECTION III
This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of the Town of Winamac, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Winamac on this 15th day
of June, 2015.
Kenneth McFarland /s/                       Richard Denney /s/
Ken McFarland, Council President                  Richard Denney
Tom J. Murray /s/                         Dan Vanaman /s/
Tom J. Murray                           Dan Vanaman
Judy Heater /s/
Judy Heater
Attest:   Melanie A. Berger /s/
   Melanie A. Berger Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE # 5 OF 2018
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF WINAMAC, INDIANA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2018 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Winamac,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since the prior codification of the Code of Ordinances of Town of
Winamac; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Town Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF WINAMAC:
   SECTION I
   That the 2018 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Winamac
was submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and
as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out in its entirety.
   SECTION II
   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the date of its adoption and
approval by the Town Council and the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Winamac is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk- Treasurer.
   SECTION III
   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of the Town of Winamac, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Winamac on this 13th
day of August, 2018.
THE WINAMAC, INDIANA TOWN COUNCIL
APPROVED:                           OPPOSED:
Tom J. Murray /s/
                                                              
Tom J. Murray, Council President               Tom J. Murray, Council President
James Watkins /s/                                                              
James Watkins, Vice-President               James Watkins, Vice-President
                                                                                                             
Alvin R. Parish, Council Member               Alvin R. Parish, Council Member
Dan Vanaman /s/                                                               
Dan Vanaman, Council Member               Dan Vanaman, Council Member
Judy Heater /s/                                                               
Judy Heater, Council Member               Judy Heater, Council Member
Attest:   Melanie A. Berger /s/
   Melanie A. Berger Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE # 1 OF 2020
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF WINAMAC, INDIANA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2020 S- 5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Winamac, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior codification of the Code of Ordinances of Town
of Winamac; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Town Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF WINAMAC:
   SECTION I
   That the 2020 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Winamac was submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION II
   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the date of its adoption and
approval by the Town Council and the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Winamac is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk- Treasurer.
   SECTION III
   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of the Town of Winamac, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Winamac on this 13th
day of April, 2020.
THE WINAMAC, INDIANA TOWN COUNCIL
APPROVED:                        OPPOSED:
Tom J. Murray /s/
                                                               
Tom J. Murray, Council President               Tom J. Murray, Council President
James Watkins /s/                                                             
James Watkins, Vice-President               James Watkins, Vice-President
Alvin R. Parish /s/
                                                              
Alvin R. Parish, Council Member               Alvin R. Parish, Council Member
David Schambers /s/
                                                              
David Schambers, Council Member            David Schambers, Council Member
Judy Heater /s/                                                               
Judy Heater, Council Member               Judy Heater, Council Member
 
Attest:   Melanie A. Berger /s/
   Melanie A. Berger Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE # 6 OF 2022
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE TOWN OF WINAMAC, INDIANA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2022 S-6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Winamac, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior codification of the Code of Ordinances of Town
of Winamac; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Town Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF WINAMAC:
   SECTION I
   That the 2022 S-6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Winamac was submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION II
   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the date of its adoption and
approval by the Town Council and the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Winamac is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk- Treasurer.
   SECTION III
   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of the Town of Winamac, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Winamac on this 12th
day of September, 2022.
THE WINAMAC, INDIANA TOWN COUNCIL
APPROVED:                           OPPOSED:
Tom J. Murray /s/
                                                               
Tom J. Murray, Council President            Tom J. Murray, President
Alvin R. Parish /s/
                                                            
Alvin R. Parish, Vice-President               Alvin R. Parish, Vice-President
Larry Weaver /s/                                                               
Larry Weaver, Council Member               Larry Weaver, Council Member
David Schambers /s/
                                                              
David Schambers, Council Member            David Schambers, Council Member
Judy Heater /s/                                                               
Judy Heater, Council Member               Judy Heater, Council Member
Attest:   Kendra K. Craft /s/              Kendra K. Craft, Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE # 1 OF 2024
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE TOWN OF WINAMAC, INDIANA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
      
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2023 S-7 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Winamac, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior codification of the Code of Ordinances of Town
of Winamac; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Town Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF WINAMAC:
   SECTION I
   That the 2023 S-7 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Winamac was submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION II
   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the date of its adoption and
approval by the Town Council and the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Winamac is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk- Treasurer.
   SECTION III
   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of the
people of the Town of Winamac, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Winamac on this 12th
day of February, 2024.
THE WINAMAC, INDIANA TOWN COUNCIL
APPROVED:                        OPPOSED:
Larry Weaver /s/                                                          
Larry Weaver, President            Larry Weaver, President
Alvin R. Parish /s/
                                                            
Alvin R. Parish, Vice-President         Alvin R. Parish, Vice-President
Tom J. Murray /s/                                                      
Tom J. Murray, Council Member         Tom J. Murray, Council Member
Danyelle Weaver /s/                                                      
Danyelle Weaver, Council Member      Danyelle Weaver, Council Member
Judy Heater /s/                                                      
Judy Heater, Council Member         Judy Heater, Council Member
Attest:   Kendra K. Craft /s/
   Kendra K. Craft, Clerk-Treasurer
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Winamac Town
Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted, or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered
by the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of persons unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural and
words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COUNTY. Pulaski County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Bridges, roads and streets unless otherwise expressly provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that in which
the words occur unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. Winamac, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING.
         (a)   Printing, lithographing or other modes of representing words and
letters.
         (b)   Where the written signature of a person is required, the terms
mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section stating that the provisions of a section are
severable as provided in division (B) above does not affect the operation of
division (B) with respect to that section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever, in one section, reference is made to another section hereof,
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of the town exercising the
powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, to the
prosecution of offenses or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment. All suits, proceedings and prosecutions for causes
arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may be
commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section.
Example:   (Ord. 10, 1960, passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, 1970, passed 1-1-70;
Am. Ord. 20, 1980, passed 1-1-80; Am. Ord. 25, 1985, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:   (I.C. 36-5-2-2) (Ord. 10, 1980, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, 1985,
passed 1-1-85)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town published in 1994 and subsequently amended, the 1994
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(`94 Code, §      ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws. This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (B)   The liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued. Punishments,
penalties or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted. In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize
highway rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the
acceptance, establishment or vacation of any highway and the election of
corporate officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not
been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN GOVERNMENT; DISTRICTS
      
31.   PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
      
32.   TOWN EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
      
33.   COMMISSIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
      
34.   PURCHASING PROCEDURE
      
35.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: TOWN GOVERNMENT; DISTRICTS
Section
   
30.01   Voting districts; membership
   
30.02   Definition
   
30.03   Elections
   
30.04   Elections; nomination of major party candidates
§ 30.01 VOTING DISTRICTS; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The town shall be divided into three districts, which shall be known
as the First District, the Second District and the Third District.
   (B)   The Town Council shall consist of five Council members who shall be
elected by the registered voters of the whole town.
   (C)   Council members shall be elected to represent the following districts:
      (1)   Council seat one: First District;
      (2)   Council seat two: Second District;
      (3)   Council seat three: Third District;
      (4)   Council seat four: elected at large; and
      (5)   Council seat five: elected at large.
   (D)   The Council member elected to fill Council seat one shall be a
resident of the First District.
   (E)   The Council member elected to fill Council seat two shall be a
resident of the Second District.
   (F)   The Council member elected to fill Council seat three shall be a
resident of the Third District.
   (G)   The Council member elected to fill Council seat four shall be a
resident of any one of the three districts.
   (H)   The Council member elected to fill Council seat five shall be a
resident of any one of the three districts.
(`94 Code, § 3-2-1) (Am. Ord. 9 of 2014, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 30.02 DEFINITION.
   (A)   First District. Commencing on the north corporate boundary line of the
town where it intersects the west corporate boundary line of the town, thence
south along the west corporate boundary to the midpoint of the intersection of
11th Street and the west corporate boundary, thence east along the midline of
11th Street to the midpoint of the intersection of 11th Street and Monticello
Street, thence north along the midline of Monticello Street to the midpoint of
the intersection of Monticello Street and Highway 14, thence east along the
midline of Highway 14 to the east corporate boundary of the town, thence north
following the east corporate boundary to the north corporate boundary, thence
west along the north corporate boundary to the place of beginning.
   (B)   Second District. Commencing on the west corporate boundary of the town
where it intersects the midpoint of 11th Street thence east along the midline
of 11th Street to the midpoint of the intersection of 11th Street and
Monticello Street, thence north along the midline of Monticello Street to the
midpoint of the intersection of Monticello Street and Highway 14, thence east
along the midline of Highway 14 to the east corporate boundary of the town,
thence southerly following the east corporate boundary line to that point where
the east corporate boundary intersects Old State Road 14, thence westerly along
Old State Road 14 to the midpoint of the intersection of Washington Street and
Riverside Drive, thence westerly along the midline of Washington Street to the
midpoint of the intersection Washington Street and Market Street, thence
northerly along the midline of Market Street to the midpoint of the
intersection of Market Street and Jefferson Street, thence southwesterly
following the midline of Jefferson Street to the midpoint of the intersection
of Jefferson Street and Short Street, thence northerly along the midline of
Short Street to the intersection of the midpoint of Short Street and Main
Street, thence west along the midline of Main Street to the intersection of
Main Street and the west corporate boundary thence north along the west
corporate boundary to the place of beginning.
   (C)   Third District. Commencing on the west corporate boundary of the town
where it intersects the midpoint of Main Street, thence south along the west
corporate boundary to the south corporate boundary of the town, thence easterly
following the south corporate boundary to the intersection of the east
corporate boundary of the town, thence north along the east corporate boundary
to the point where the east corporate boundary intersects the midline of Old
State Road 14, thence westerly along the midline of Old State Road 14 to the
midpoint of the intersection of Washington Street and Riverside Drive, thence
westerly along the midline of Washington Street to the midpoint of the
intersection Washington Street and Market Street, thence northerly along the
midline of Market Street to the midpoint of the intersection of Market Street
and Jefferson Street thence southwesterly following the midline of Jefferson
Street to the midpoint of the intersection of Jefferson Street and Short
Street, thence northerly along the midline of Short Street to the intersection
of the midpoint of Short Street and Main Street, thence west along the midline
of Main Street to the intersection of Main Street and the west corporate
boundary which is the place of beginning.
(`94 Code, § 3-2-2) (Am. Ord. 5, 2002, passed 6-13-2002; Am. Ord. 3 of 2005,
passed 9-12-2005; Am. Ord. 2 of 2012, passed 5-14-2012)
§ 30.03 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   It would be in the best interest of the town to provide for town
elections to occur during an election year so that town elections will occur
during even-numbered general election years when elections for federal, state,
and other local offices occur.
   (B)   It will save the town money in election expenses to hold its elections
during an even-numbered general election year since, pursuant to I.C. 3-5-3-11,
when a town election coincides with a general election, the county election
board may not assess the town for the cost of the town’s election.
   (C)   District Town Council members and the Town Clerk-Treasurer elected to
office in the November election in 2015, or holding over in office following
the 2015 municipal election under Article 15, Section 3 of the Constitution of
the State of Indiana, shall serve a term of one year.
   (D)   After 2015, the district Town Council members and the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall next stand for election in 2016.
   (E)   The district Council members and the Town Clerk-Treasurer elected in
2016 shall serve a four- year tem and each subsequent district Town Council
member and Town Clerk-Treasurer elected thereafter shall serve a four-year term
as provided by law.
(Ord. 13 of 2014, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 30.04 ELECTIONS; NOMINATION OF MAJOR PARTY CANDIDATES.
   (A)   Establishment. Major party candidates for town offices for the town
shall be nominated through the method of a primary election. The nomination of
major party candidates for a town office for the town through the method of
political town convention shall be abolished.
   (B)   Election Board. The Pulaski County Election Board shall conduct the
primary election for nomination of major party candidates for town offices for
the town.
   (C)   Governing laws. All Indiana statutes governing primary elections for
towns shall apply to the nomination of major party candidates for town offices
for the town.
   (D)   Change of method prohibited. The town shall not change the method of
nominating major party candidates for its town offices for a period of 12
years.
(Ord. 4 of 2017, passed 4-10-2017)
CHAPTER 31: PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
Section
   
31.01   Employee Handbook adopted by reference
   
31.02   Employee compensation for mutual aid agreements
§ 31.01 EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
    The Employee Handbook, as it may be amended hereafter, is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in full herein. Copies of the Employee Handbook are
available for public inspection in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer
during normal business hours.
(Ord. 20 of 2013, passed 12-9-2013; Am. Ord. 1 of 2018, passed 4-9-2018; Am.
Ord. 2 of 2019, passed 1-14-2019; Am. Ord. 17 of 2023, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 31.02 EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION FOR MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Compensation. An employee assisting in a mutual aid agreement will be
compensated at a rate of time and a half of the employee’s current hourly rate.
   (B)   Duration. Compensation shall include travel time to and from the
destination where the aid is being provided and for logged working hours.
(Ord. 18 of 2024, passed 10-2-2024)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
Section
   
32.01   Assistant Town Manager
§ 32.01 ASSISTANT TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby created the position of Assistant Town Manager
for the town.
      (2)   The Assistant Town Manager shall assist the Town Manager in the
orderly operation and management of the town and the municipal utilities
operated by the town and shall have other duties and responsibilities as
delegated to the person by the acting and appointed Town Manager from time to
time.
      (3)   The Assistant Town Manger shall be appointed by the Town Council,
but shall be responsible to the Town Manager for the faithful performance of
his or her duties.
   (B)   (1)   The Assistant Town manager shall be paid the annual sum as set
by Council from time to time and prorated by the number of weeks employed by
the town.
      (2)   The salary of the Assistant Town Manager shall be paid with the
same frequency as other employees of the town.
      (3)   The Assistant Town Manager shall be eligible for the same benefits
as all other town employees.
      (4)   The Assistant Town Manager’s salary shall be paid one-fourth from
the Wastewater Utility Fund, one-fourth from the Water Utility Fund and one-
half from the Electric Utility Fund.
(Ord. 9, 1998, passed 8-10-1998)
CHAPTER 33: COMMISSIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
Section
   
33.01   Economic Development Commission
   
33.02   Volunteer Fire Department; service charges
   
33.03   Department of Parks and Recreation
   
33.04   Board of Metropolitan Police Commissioners
   
33.05   Police Pension Board
Cross-reference:
   Town Tree Committee, duties, see §
94.01
   Water, Light and Sewage Committee, see §
50.01
§ 33.01 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a department of development, which shall be
known as the Department of Development, which Department shall be controlled by
the Commission known as the Economic Development Commission.
(`94 Code, § 2-1)
   (B)   (1)   The Economic Development Commission shall consist of three
members.
      (2)   Appointees shall serve terms of four years, with each term to
expire on February 1.
      (3)   Any vacancies occurring on the Commission shall be filled by
appointment by the authority having made the appointment in which the vacancy
occurs and the appointment shall be made for the completion of any unexpired
term.
      (4)   Commissioners shall serve without compensation, but the Town
Council may provide in the Development Department budget for reimbursement of
travel, telephone and other expenses incurred by the Commissioners in the
performance of their duties.
      (5)   The appointing authorities shall make their appointments in the
manner prescribed by law and shall furnish certificates of appointment for each
person appointed and the appointees shall qualify, as required by law.
(`94 Code, § 2-2)
   (C)   (1)   The Commission shall meet within 30 days after its creation and
shall, at that first meeting, elect the President, Vice-President and Secretary
and shall immediately undertake the duties imposed upon the Commissioners by
law. The Commission shall hold reorganization meetings during February of each
year and the Commission and its members shall have all the powers and duties
imposed by statute and this section and by amendments to either the statute or
ordinance.
      (2)   The Commission may adopt by-laws and rules as are not prohibited by
law and as are found desirable to facilitate the conduct of its business and
the accomplishment of its purpose.
(`94 Code, § 2-3)
   (D)   Any Commissioner having a financial interest in, or having been
employed by, any firm or corporation contracting or negotiating with the
Commission shall disclose his or her interest to the Commission and the
disclosures shall be made a part of the records of the Commission. Any contract
or agreement in which a Commissioner has a financial interest or any contract
or agreement with any firm or corporation in which a Commissioner has direct
financial interest shall be void from its inception unless the nature of that
financial interest has been made a part of the record of the Commission. No
Commissioner shall vote on any matter in which he or she has a financial
interest.
(`94 Code, § 2-4)
§ 33.02 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT; SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DEPARTMENT. The Town Volunteer Fire Department.
      FIRE MARSHALL. The State Fire Marshall.
      OWNER. The person who holds the legal title to a parcel of ground as
recorded in the records of the County Recorder's Office in which the property
is located, or in the cases of a motor vehicle, the owner of record in the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
      RESPONSIBLE PARTY. The definition as set out in I.C. 13-11-2-191.
      SCHEDULE OF FEES. The State Fire Marshall's recommended schedule of fees.
      SERVICES. Any response by the Department for the purpose of
extinguishing, containing or cleaning up after any fires, accidents or
hazardous material incidents.
      TOWN. Winamac, Indiana.
      VEHICLE. Any device in, upon or by which a person or property is, or may
be, transported or drawn upon a road or highway.
   (B)   (1)   The schedules of charges for the services provided by the
Department shall be as follows:
         (a)   For initial response with a fire engine, a fire truck or a fire
apparatus, including a hazardous material unit or a fire rescue unit dispatched
on a fire or hazardous material incident: $250 per response vehicle, except
command/control vehicles, which is $100 per vehicle;
         (b)   For each hour or fraction thereof as on-scene assistance: $150
per response unit and $50 per command/control vehicle;
         (c)   For expendable materials such as absorption materials,
emulsifiers or other agents used in cleanup operations: the actual replacement
cost of those materials; and
         (d)   For collection of debris, chemicals, fuel or contaminated
materials resulting front a spill: the actual cost of removal and disposal at
an authorized location.
      (2)   The Department shall charge the owner of a vehicle or a responsible
party that is involved in a hazardous material or fuel spill or chemical or
hazardous material related fire on a public highway where the Department
assisted in extinguishing, containing or cleanup of the incident.
   (C)   (1)   The Department shall bill the property owner or responsible
party for payment of the services charged, as determined above, as follows:
         (a)   The bill for charges shall be in writing and submitted to the
property owner or responsible party within 30 days after the services are
provided.
         (b)   If the service provided was for an event that requires a fire
incident report, a copy of the report shall be included in the form prescribed
by the State Fire Marshall.
      (2)   The Department shall not bill any property owner for the charges if
the property owner has sent written notice to the Department refusing service
to the owner's property prior to the provision of the services.
   (D)   (1)   Upon receipt of the billings, the owner or the agent of the
owner shall remit payment of the service fees directly to the Department.
      (2)   All service fees collected under this section by the Department
shall be deposited in a separate fund upon receipt and shall be used by the
Department only as follows:
         (a)   To purchase equipment, buildings and property for firefighting,
fire protection or other emergency services as approved by the town; and
         (b)   To pay principal and interest on a loan.
   (E)   The Department shall submit a written report to the town before April
1 of each year indicating the amount of service charges collected for the
previous calendar year and specifically documenting how the funds, if any, were
expended.
(Ord. 8, 1996, passed 9-24-1996)
§ 33.03 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Park and Recreation Board.
   DEPARTMENT. A department of parks and recreation.
   DISTRICT. The area within the jurisdiction of a department.
   (B)   Establishment.
      (1)   Board of Parks and Recreation. There is hereby established the Town
of Winamac Board of Parks and Recreation (the “Board”). The Board shall have
all powers and duties as set forth in I.C. 36-10-3. All books, papers,
documents, and other property of former park and recreation authorities shall
be transferred to and become the property of the Board.
      (2)   Board Membership. The Board shall consist of five members. Four
members shall be appointed by the Town Council, based upon their interest in
and knowledge of parks and recreation. Not more than two members may be
affiliated with the same political part, except as provided in I.C. 36-10-3-
4.1, and all members must be residents of the district. The fifth member shall
be a member of the governing body of the library district selected by that
body.
         (a)   The Board may also include one other ex officio member, that ex
officio member being a member of the Eastern Pulaski Community School
Corporation School Board (the "School Board") selected by that body, or a
member designated by the School Board.
         (b)   Ex officio members shall have all the rights of regular members,
including the right to vote. A vacancy in an ex officio position shall be
filled by the appointing authority.
         (c)   Neither a municipal executive nor a member of a county fiscal
body, county executive, or municipal fiscal body may serve on the Board.
      (3)   Term of membership.
         (a)   Initial appointments to the Board are as follows:
            1.   Town Council appointments.
               A.   One member for a term of one year.
               B.   One member for a term of two years.
               C.   One member for a term of three years.
               D.   One member for a term of four years.
            2.   Pulaski County Public Library appointment. One member for a
term of two years.
         (b)   As each term under division (B)(3)(a) expires, each new
appointment is for a four-year term. All terms shall expire on the first Monday
in January, but a member shall continue to serve until his or her successor is
appointed.
         (c)   An appointing authority, if applicable, shall make initial
appointments within 90 days after the creation of the Department.
         (d)   If an appointment for any new term is not made by the first
Monday in April, the incumbent shall serve another term.
         (e)   In making initial appointments under division (B)(3)(a), the
Town Council shall give special consideration to the appointment of members
from previous park or recreation boards.
         (f)   If a vacancy on the Board occurs, the appointing authority shall
appoint a person to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
      (4)   Removal. A member of the Board may be removed only for cause, upon
specific written charges filed against him or her. The charged shall be filed
with and heard by the appointing authority, unless the appointing authority is
bringing the charges. If the appointing authority is bringing the charges, the
unit's fiscal body shall appoint a hearing officer. The person to hear the
charges shall fix a date for a public hearing and give public notice at least
ten days in advance of the hearing. At the hearing, the member is entitled to
present evidence and argument and to be represented by Council.
      (5)   Advisory Members. The municipal and county boards may each
designate a member to sit with the other Board members in an advisory capacity.
   (C)   Meetings and other business.
      (1)   General requirements. All meetings of the Board shall be open to
the public. The Board shall fix the time and place of its regular meetings, but
it shall meet at least quarterly. The town shall provide suitable quarters for
holding meetings and conducting the work of the Board.
      (2)   Special meetings. Special meetings of the Board may be called by
the president, or any two members by written request to the secretary. The
secretary shall send each member, at least 48 hours before a special meeting, a
written notice fixing the time, place, and purpose of the meeting. Written
notice of a special meeting is not required if the time of the special meeting
is fixed at a regular meeting, or if all members are present at the special
meeting.
      (3)   Election of officers. At its first regular meeting each year, the
Board shall elect a president and a vice president. The Board may select a
secretary either from within, or outside, its membership.
      (4)   Quorum. A majority of the members constitutes a quorum. Action of
the Board is not official unless it is authorized by at least three members
present and acting.
      (5)   Compensation. The members of the board may receive a salary in an
amount fixed by the Town Council. The Town Council may appropriate and approve
a per diem allowance to members of a board for attending a meeting of the
board.
      (6)   Other permitted requirements. If the Board determines that members
or employees should attend a state, regional, or national conference dealing
with park and recreation problems, the Board may authorize the payment of the
actual expenses involved in attending the conference. However, the amount must
be available as part of the Board's appropriation.
   (D)   Duties and powers.
      (1)   Board duties. The Board shall:
         (a)   Exercise general supervision of and make rules for the
department.
         (b)   Establish rules governing the use of the park and recreation
facilities by the public.
         (c)   Provide police protection for its property and activities,
either by requesting assistance from the state, municipal, or county police
authorities, or by having specified employees deputized as police officers.
         (d)   Any deputized employees are not eligible for police pension
benefits or other emoluments of police officers.
         (e)   Appoint the necessary administrative officers of the department
and fix their duties.
         (f)   Establish standards and qualifications for the appointment of
all personnel and approve their appointments without regard to politics.
         (g)   Make recommendations and an annual report to the executive and
fiscal body of the unit concerning the operation of the Board and the status of
park and recreation programs in the district.
         (h)   Prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner as other
executive departments of the unit.
         (i)   Appoint a member of the Board to serve on another kind of board
or commission, whenever a statute allows a park or recreation board to do this.
      (2)   Board powers. The Board may:
         (a)   Enter into contracts and leases for facilities and services.
         (b)   Contract with persons for joint use of facilities for the
operation of park and recreation programs and related services.
         (c)   Contract with another board, a unit, or a school corporation for
the use of park and recreation facilities or services, and a township or school
corporation may contract with the Board for the use of park and recreation
facilities or services.
         (d)   Acquire and dispose of real and personal property, either within
or outside Indiana.
         (e)   Exercise the power of eminent domain under statutes available to
municipalities.
         (f)   Sell, lease, or enter into a royalty contract for the natural or
mineral resources of land that it owns, the money received to be deposited in a
nonreverting capital fund of the Board.
         (g)   Engage in self-supporting activities as prescribed in Ind. Code
§ 36-10-3-22, and as prescribed in this section.
         (h)   Contract for special and temporary services and for professional
assistance.
         (i)   Delegate authority to perform ministerial acts in all cases,
except where final action of the Board is necessary.
         (j)   Prepare, publish, and distribute reports and other materials
relating to activities authorized by this section.
         (k)   Sue and be sued collectively by its legal name, the "Winamac
Department of Parks and Recreation," with service of process being had upon the
president of the Board, but costs may not be taxed against the Board or its
members in any action.
         (l)   Invoke any legal, equitable, or special remedy for the
enforcement of this section, a park or recreation ordinance or resolution, or
the Board's own action taken under either.
         (m)   Release and transfer, by resolution, a part of the area over
which it has jurisdiction for park and recreational purposes to park
authorities of another unit for park and recreational purposes upon petition of
the park or recreation board of the acquiring unit.
      (3)   Power to lease. The Board may lease any buildings or grounds
belonging to the unit and located within a park to a person for a period not to
exceed 50 years. The lease may authorize the lessee to provide upon the
premises educational, research, veterinary, or other proper facilities for the
exhibition of wild or domestic animals in wildlife parks, dining facilities,
swimming facilities, golf courses, skating facilities, dancing facilities,
amusement rides generally found in amusement parks, or other recreational
facilities. A lease may be made for more than one year only to the highest and
best bidder, after notice that the lease will be made has been given by
publication, in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1.
         (a)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board may lease buildings or
grounds belonging to the unit for a period of more than one year without
soliciting the highest and best bidder or providing notice under I.C. 5-3-1,
if:
            1.   The building or grounds are leased to an Indiana nonprofit
corporation;
            2.   The buildings or grounds are operated as a public golf course;
and
            3.   The golf course remains subject to rules and regulations
promulgated by the Board.
      (4)   Sale of surplus property. The Board may sell, or order sold through
a designated representative, by public or private sale, any personal property
that the Board has declared to be surplus at a regular or special meeting and
has declared to have an aggregate appraised value of $5,000 or less. Whenever
the Board decides to sell at a private sale, the Board must employ a qualified
appraiser to determine a reasonable selling price for each kind of surplus item
and must publish, in the manner provided in I.C. 5-3-1:
         (a)   The fact that a private sale will be held;
         (b)   The location of the sale;
         (c)   The dates of the beginning and end of the sale;
         (d)   The time of day during which the sale will take place;
         (e)   The kinds of items to be sold at the sale; and
         (f)   The price of each kind of item, which may not be less than the
reasonable selling price determined by the qualified appraiser.
      (5)   The Board decides to sell at a public sale, the Board shall conduct
the sale in the manner provided by law for the unit.
      (6)   Compensation. The Board shall fix the compensation of officers and
personnel appointed under division (D)(1)(d)(e).
   (E)   Superintendent and duties.
      (1)   Appointment. The Board may appoint a superintendent of parks and
recreation. The Board may not consider political affiliation in the selection
of the superintendent.
      (2)   Qualifications. The superintendent must:
         (a)   Be qualified by training or experience in the field of parks and
recreation; or
         (b)   Have a certification or an advanced degree in the field of parks
and recreation.
         (c)   An incumbent performing park and recreational functions in a
supervisory capacity at the time a unit adopts a creating ordinance is eligible
for appointment as superintendent or as an assistant, but he or she must have
the required training, experience, or certification.
      (3)   Duties. Under the direction of the Board, the superintendent shall:
         (a)   Propose, annually, a plan for the operation of the department.
         (b)   Administer the plan as approved by the Board.
         (c)   Supervise the general administration of the department.
         (d)   Keep the records of the department and preserve all papers and
documents of the department.
         (e)   Recommend persons for appointment as assistants, if the Board
determines there is a need.
         (f)   Appoint the employees of the Department, subject to the approval
of the Board, according to the standards and qualifications fixed by the Board
and without regard to political affiliation.
         (g)   Prepare and present to the Board an annual report.
         (h)   Perform other duties, as the Board may direct from time to time.
      (4)   Assistant superintendent. If the Board determines that the size of
the Department's operation requires assistants for the superintendent, the
Board may appoint, upon the recommendation of the superintendent, one or more
assistants. The Board shall determine their qualifications on a basis similar
to that prescribed for the superintendent. Assistants are directly responsible
to the superintendent and shall perform the duties specified by the
superintendent.
   (F)   Bonding; Advisory Council; fiscal matters.
      (1)   Bonds and crime policies.
         (a)   Every officer and employee who handles money in the performance
of his or her duties, as prescribed by this section, shall execute an official
bond for the term of office or employment before entering upon the duties of
the office or employment.
         (b)   The Town Council may, under I.C. 5-4-1-18, authorize the
purchase of a blanket bond or crime insurance policy endorsed to include
faithful performance to cover all officers' and employees' faithful performance
of duties. The amount of the bond or crime insurance policy shall be fixed by
the fiscal body and, in the case of a municipality, must be approved by the
Town Council president.
         (c)   All official bonds shall be filed and recorded in the office of
the Pulaski County Recorder.
      (2)   Advisory Council and special committees.
         (a)   The Board may create and Advisory Council and special committees
composed of citizens interested in parks and recreation.
         (b)   In selecting an Advisory Council or special committees, the
Board shall give consideration to the groups in the community particularly
interested in parks and recreation. In a resolution creating an Advisory
Council or a special committee, the Board shall specify the terms of its
members and the purposes for which it is created.
         (c)   The Advisory Council or a special committee shall:
            1.   Study the subjects and problems specified by the Board and
recommend to the Board additional problems in need of study.
            2.   Advise the Board concerning these subjects, particularly as
they relate to different areas and groups in the community.
            3.   Upon the invitation of the Board, sit with and participate in
the deliberations of the Board, but without the right to vote.
         (d)   The Advisory Council or a special committee shall report only to
the Board and shall make inquiries and reports only in those areas specified by
the Board's resolution creating the council or committee.
      (3)   Gifts, donations, and subsidies. The Board may accept gifts,
donations, and subsidies for park and recreational purposes. However, a gift or
transfer of property to the Board may not be made without its approval. Any
gift or grant of money shall be deposited in a special nonreverting fund, to be
available for expenditure by the Board, for purposes specified by the grantor.
The disbursing officer of the unit may draw warrants against the fund only upon
vouchers signed by the president and secretary of the Board.
      (4)   Special taxing district. The territories within the boundaries of
the unit comprises a special taxing district for the purpose of levying special
benefit taxes for park and recreational purposes as provided in this section.
The Town Council shall determine and provide the revenues necessary for the
operation of the department or for the capital expenditures not covered by the
issuance of bonds by:
         (a)   A specific levy to be used exclusively for these purposes;
         (b)   A special appropriation; or
         (c)   Both of these methods.
      (5)   Special nonreverting capital fund. Upon the request of the Board,
the Town Council may establish, by separate ordinance, a special nonreverting
capital fund for the purposes of acquiring land or making specific capital
improvements. The Town Council may include in the Board's annual budget an item
and an appropriation for these specific purposes.
      (6)   Money placed in the nonreverting capital fund may not be withdrawn,
except for the purposes for which the fund was created, unless the Town Council
repeals the ordinance. The Town Council may not repeal the ordinance under
suspension of the rules.
      (7)   Cumulative Building Fund.
         (a)   The Board may establish a cumulative building fund under I.C. 6-
1.1 -41, to provide for:
            1.   Building, remodeling, and repair of park and recreational
facilities; or
            2.   The purchase of land for park and recreational purposes.
         (b)   In addition to the requirements of I.C. 6-1.1-41, before a fund
may be established, the proposed action must be approved by the Town Council.
         (c)   To provide for the cumulative building fund, the unit's fiscal
body may levy a tax in compliance with I.C. 6-1.1-41, not to exceed one and
$0.0167 on each $100 of assessed valuation of taxable property within the unit.
         (d)   The tax shall be collected and held in a special fund known as
the unit's Park and Recreation Cumulative Building Fund.
      (8)   Fees for particular activities, special funds, deposits,
withdrawals. Park and recreation facilities and programs shall be made
available to the public free of charge as far as possible. However, if it is
necessary in order to provide a particular activity, the Board may charge a
reasonable fee.
         (a)   The Town Council may establish, by separate ordinance, and upon
request of the Board:
            1.   A special nonreverting operating fund for park purposes from
which expenditures may be made as provided by ordinance, either by
appropriation by the Board or by the Town Council; or
            2.   A special nonreverting fund for the purpose of acquiring land
or making specific capital improvements from which expenditures may be made by
appropriation by the Town Council.
         (b)   The Town Council shall designate the funds into which the Town
Clerk-Treasurer shall deposit fees from golf courses, swimming pools, skating
rinks, or other major facilities requiring major expenditures for management
and maintenance. Money received from fees, other than from major facilities or
received from the sale of surplus property, shall be deposited by the Town
Clerk-Treasurer either in the special nonreverting operating fund or in the
nonreverting capital fund, as directed by the Board. However, if neither fund
has been established, money received from fees or from the sale of surplus
property shall be deposited in the unit's general fund. Money from either
special fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed and signed by the
president and secretary of the Board.
         (c)   Money placed in the special nonreverting capital fund may not be
withdrawn, except for the purposes for which the fund was created, unless the
Town Council repeals the ordinance establishing the fund. The Town Council may
not repeal the ordinance under suspension of the rules.
         (d)   Money procured from fees or received from the sale of surplus
property under division (F)(4), shall be deposited at least once each month
with the Town Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
(Ord. 9, 1996, passed 11-11-1996; Am. Ord. 5 of 2016, passed 4-28-2016; Am.
Ord. 13 of 2016, passed 10-31-2016)
§ 33.04 BOARD OF METROPOLITAN POLICE COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   Board established. The Winamac Board of Metropolitan Police
Commissioners pursuant to I.C. 36-8-9-1 et seq. is hereby established
(hereinafter referred to as the "Board").
   (B)   Board composition and term.
      (1)   The Winamac Town Council shall serve as Winamac Board of
Metropolitan Police Commissioners.
      (2)   The Town Council may not appoint a police officer employed by the
town to serve on the Board.
      (3)   A Board member vacates his/her position on the Board when said
Board member is no longer a member of the Town Council.
   (C)   Board powers and duties.
      (1)   The Board shall elect officers at the first regularly scheduled
meeting of the new year. Said officers shall be a president and vice-president.
The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Winamac shall serve as the secretary to the
Board.
      (2)   The Winamac Town Attorney shall serve as attorney for the Board
unless circumstances require the employment of a separate attorney.
      (3)   The Board secretary shall prepare minutes of each Board meeting and
said minutes shall be approved at the next scheduled Board meeting.
      (4)   The Board shall meet a minimum of four times per year with proper
publication of notice of the meetings as legally required.
   (D)   Board compensation, bond, oath.
      (1)   A Board member who is also a member of the Winamac Town Council may
not receive compensation as a Board member.
      (2)   A Board member who is also a member of the Winamac Town Council is
not required to post a bond.
      (3)   This section applies to all Board members. Before performing any
function of a Board member, an individual shall take and subscribe an oath or
affirmation before the Pulaski County Circuit Court Clerk that, in each
appointment or removal made by the Board to or from the Town Police Department,
the Board member will not appoint or remove a member of the Town Police
Department because of the political affiliation of the person or for another
cause or reason other than that of the fitness of the person.
   (E)   Appointment of Police Department employees.
      (1)   The Board may appoint, subject to the qualifications for employment
as set forth in I.C. 36-8-8-19 "Baseline Statewide Physical and Mental
Examination", as many persons as necessary to serve in the Police Department of
the Town of Winamac.
      (2)   The Board shall grandfather in and appoint the currently serving
Town Marshal to the position of Police Chief.
      (3)   The Board, at such time as necessary, shall appoint one person to
serve as Chief of Police.
      (4)   All persons appointed to be members of or employed by the Winamac
Police Department must be of good moral character and serve only during good
behavior.
      (5)   The Board may provide that all appointments to the Winamac Police
Department are probationary for a period not to exceed one year. If the Board
finds upon recommendation of the Chief of the department during the
probationary period that the conduct or capacity of a member is not
satisfactory, the Board shall notify the member in writing that the member is
being suspended or that the member will not receive a permanent appointment. If
a member is notified that the member will not receive a permanent appointment,
the member's employment immediately ceases. Otherwise, at the expiration of the
probationary period, the probationary member is considered regularly employed.
   (F)   Police Department employee compensation.
      (1)   The Board may recommend and the Winamac Town Council shall
determine the compensation to be paid to members of the Police Department in
amounts that are just and reasonable.
      (2)   The Winamac Town Council shall appropriate a sum sufficient to pay
the salaries of the members of the Winamac Police Department.
      (3)   The Town of Winamac is responsible for the payment of expenses
incurred by a paid police officer of Winamac who suffers an injury or contracts
an illness during the performance of the officer's duty pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 36-8-9-8.
   (G)   Police governance, rules, discipline.
      (1)   The Board may make general and special rules for the government and
discipline of the Winamac Police Department and may make special and general
orders to the Department through the Police Chief, who is the executive head of
the Winamac Police Department.
      (2)   The operation, management, and control of the Winamac Police
Department is governed by statutes applicable to the management and control of
other municipal police departments if those statutes are consistent with this
section.
      (3)   The Board constitutes the Safety Board of the Town of Winamac for
purposes of the suspension, demotion, or dismissal of any member of the Winamac
Police Department. Proceeds for Winamac Police Department shall be conducted in
the matter prescribed by I.C. 36-8-3-4. The disciplinary provisions of I.C. 36-
8-3-4.1 also apply to the Safety Board and the Police Chief.
      (4)   The Board may make general and special rules for the government and
discipline of the Winamac Police Department and may make special and general
order to the Department through the Police Chief, who is the executive head of
the Winamac Police Department.
   (H)   Police officer safety. The Town of Winamac shall provide each active
member of the Winamac Police Department with body armor for the torso. The town
shall replace the body armor for the torso according to the replacement
recommended by the manufacturer of the body armor of the torso. An active
member of the Police Department shall not be required to pay for maintenance of
the body armor for the torso furnished by the Town of Winamac. Body armor for
the torso provided by the town remains the property of the town. The town may
sell the body armor when it becomes unfit for the use and all money received
shall be paid into the town general fund.
(Ord. 16 of 2021, passed 10-11-2021)
§ 33.05 POLICE PENSION BOARD.
   (A)   Board established. There is hereby established the Town of Winamac,
Indiana, Police pension Board as provided in I.C. 36-8-8 and 36-8-6-2.
   (B)   Organization of Board.
      (1)   The Police Pension Board consists of three members, as follows:
         (a)   The President of the Town Council;
         (b)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer; and
         (c)   The Chief of Police.
      (2)   Ex officio members. The Town Council President, the Clerk-
Treasurer, and the Chief of Police are ex-officio voting members of the Board.
      (3)   Terms. The terms of the Town Council President, the Clerk-
Treasurer, and the Chief of Police will be the same as the term of their
respective offices.
      (4)   Officers. The Town Council President serves as the president of the
Board, the Clerk-Treasurer serves as its treasurer, and the Chief of Police
serves as the secretary.
      (5)   Quorum. A majority of the Board's member shall constitute a quorum
for transacting business.
      (6)   Powers and duties. The Board shall have all the powers and duties
provided under Indiana Law.
      (7)   Compensation and reimbursement. The Board members shall not receive
payment for their services and shall be paid only their necessary expenses.
However, the Town Council President, Clerk-Treasurer and Chief of Police shall
be paid their necessary traveling expenses from the 1977 Fund when acting upon
matters pertaining to the fund as recommended by the Pension Board and approved
by the Metropolitan Police Commission.
      (8)   Bylaws and rules. The Board may make all necessary bylaws or rules
for its meetings and all matters relating to the conduct of its business, and
it shall keep and maintain records of its business.
   (C)   Police Pension Fund.
      (1)   Establishment of Fund. This is established and created by the
Winamac Metropolitan Police.
      (2)   Source of funds. The source of money in this Fund will be from
payroll deductions for the employer's share and employee's share of pension
benefits required by participation in the 1977 Police pension Fund and any
other money appropriated by the Town Council for this fund.
      (3)   Use of funds. The money in this fund will be used only for the
transfer of money into the 1977 Police Officers' and Firefighter Pension and
Disability Fund and other lawful purposes.
      (4)   Non-reverting fund. This is a non-reverting fund.
(Ord. 17 of 2021, passed 10-11-2021)
CHAPTER 34: PURCHASING PROCEDURE
Section
   
34.01   Designation of agency and agent
   
34.02   Supplies manufactured in the United States
   
34.03   Notices, requests for proposals and the like
   
34.04   Town credit card
   
34.05   Funds for town businesses
   
34.06   Preapproved claims
§ 34.01 DESIGNATION OF AGENCY AND AGENT.
   (A)   The Town Council is hereby designated to be the purchasing agency for
the town.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby appoints the Town Manager to serve as the
purchasing agent for the town.
(Ord. 8, 1998, passed 7-13-1998)
§ 34.02 SUPPLIES MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES.
   (A)   All supplies purchased by the town are to be manufactured in the
United States, except as specified herein.
   (B)   Supplies specified for purchase by the town may be purchased if not
manufactured within the United States if the town determines:
      (1)   The needed supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States
exceeds by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable
supplies manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
(Ord. 8, 1998, passed 7-13-1998)
§ 34.03 NOTICES, REQUESTS FOR PROPOSALS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   All matters concerning notices, requests for proposals and invitations
to bid shall be as follows:
      (1)   Invitation to bid. All notices of invitation for bids shall be
published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1. The purchasing agent shall schedule
the publication of notice to provide a reasonable amount of time for
preparation and submission of bids. The notice shall be published two times, at
least one week apart. The second publication must occur at least ten days prior
to the date bids will be opened.
      (2)   Request for proposal. All notices of requests for proposals shall
be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1. The purchasing agent shall schedule
the publication of notice to provide a reasonable amount of time for
preparation and submission of proposals. The notice shall be published two
times, at least one week apart. The second publication must occur at least
seven days prior to the date proposals will be opened.
      (3)   Requests for specifications. All notices of requests for proposals
shall be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1. The purchasing agent shall
schedule the publication of notice to provide a reasonable amount of time for
preparation and submission of proposals. The notice shall be published two
times, at least one week apart. The second publication must occur at least
seven days prior to the date proposals will be opened.
      (4)   Electronic notices. Whenever a notice or other material, including
specifications, an invitation for bids, requests for proposals or requests for
specifications, is sent by mail, the purchasing agent may also send the notice
or other material by electronic means, provided that the transmission of the
information is at least as efficient as mailing the information.
   (B)   All matters concerning receiving offers shall be as follows:
      (1)   Opening of offers. Bids received in response to an invitation for
bids must be a opened publicly in the presence of at least one or more
witnesses at the time and place designated in the invitation for bids.
Proposals received in response to a request for proposals must be opened so as
to avoid disclosure of the contents to competing offerors during the process of
negotiation. Proposals received in response to a request for specifications may
be opened as specified in the request for specifications.
      (2)   Electronic receipt of offers. The purchasing agent may receive
electronic offers in response to an invitation to bid, request for proposals or
request for specifications. An electronic offer may only be received if:
         (a)   The solicitation includes the procedure for the electronic
transmission of the offer; and
         (b)   The purchasing agency receives the offer on a fax machine or
other system with a security feature that protects the contents of an
electronic offer with the same degree of protection as provided to an offer not
transmitted electronically.
      (3)   Correction and withdrawal of bids. An offeror may correct
inadvertent errors in a bid up to the time at which bids will be opened by
supplementing the erroneous bid and submitting a revised bid. A bidder may not
supplement and inadvertently erroneous bid after the time at which the bids
were opened. A bidder may withdraw a bid containing inadvertent errors up to
the time at which bids will be opened and for a period of not more than 24
hours after the time at which bids were opened.
      (4)   Cancellation of solicitation. When the purchasing agent makes a
written determination that it is in the town’s best interests, the purchasing
agent may cancel a solicitation or reject all offers, provided that the
solicitation included information concerning the procedure for cancellation.
   (C)   The purchasing agent may purchase supplies with an estimated cost of
less than $25,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes.
(Ord. 8, 1998, passed 7-13-1998)
§ 34.04 TOWN CREDIT CARD.
   (A)   Business credit card for travel expenses.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to make application for
and maintain a business credit card for the use by town department heads and
employees designated by the department head for travel and permitted expenses
related thereto as defined below. The credit card for travel expenses shall
have a credit limit of $3,000. The credit card shall be held by the Clerk-
Treasurer and available to only the department heads of the following
departments:
         (a)   Town Manager;
         (b)   Parks and Recreation;
         (c)   Waste water treatment;
         (d)   Water;
         (e)   Electric;
         (f)   Street; and
         (g)   Police.
      (2)   When not in use, the credit cards shall be secured in the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer. Upon request by a town department head, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall issue the credit card for use and shall keep a record showing
the name of the department head issued the card, the date of issuance, the date
of return, and the purpose of use. Upon return, the department head shall
provide a written accounting of all charges and receipts for each purchase
made. The department head shall be responsible for the card and its use when
outside of the control of the Clerk-Treasurer's office.
      (3)   Town officials, department heads and employees shall use the credit
card exclusively for the purpose of town travel expenses limited to the
following:
         (a)   Hotel or motel room reservations;
         (b)   Hotel or motel room charges for telephone calls pertaining to
town business;
         (c)   Meals pursuant to the Employee Handbook, plus maximum of 20%
gratuity;
         (d)   Fees associated with attending schools, conferences, seminars
and the like; and
         (e)   Gasoline, if using a town-owned vehicle.
      (4)   The town credit card shall not be used for alcoholic beverages,
room service, non-town business telephone calls, in-room movies, cash advances,
or any personal expenses.
      (5)   Accounts payable vouchers (claims) filed in connection with the use
of the credit card shall be submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer for processing
within two business days of the official or employee's return from their
travel. All credit card usage shall be properly itemized and documented as
provided in I.C. 5-11-10 et seq. The charge card will be paid in full every
billing cycle. Improperly itemized and documented items as well as interest,
carrying charges or penalties caused by improperly submitting items shall be
the responsibility of the individual user who causes the expense to the town.
      (6)   Payment for any personal or disallowed charges shall be the
responsibility of the official or employee making the charge. An official or
employee who abuses the credit card will be restricted from future credit card
use and subject to disciplinary action where appropriate.
      (7)   Before being issued the credit card, all individuals, officials,
department heads, and or employees who are expected to use said card, must sign
a form provided by the Clerk-Treasurer's Office that indicates the individual
has read and understands the policy regarding permitted uses of the town credit
card. This form shall also set forth an explanation of the proposed use of the
card and the approximate dates it will be used and returned to the possession
of the Clerk-Treasurer's Office.
   (B)   Town credit card for public purchases of supplies, materials, and
small equipment.
      (1)   The policy of the Town of Winamac is to use claim forms for
transactions by each department. However, the Clerk-Treasurer shall also make
available the town credit card for commercial charging in instances where a
unique or special circumstance requires the use of said card. Purchases must
have approval of the Town Manager and Clerk-Treasurer not to exceed said
$3,000. The credit card may only be used for public purchases of supplies,
materials, and small equipment.
      (2)   Charge card receipts shall be properly itemized and documented with
a summary of items purchased with said credit card. The charge card will be
paid in full every billing cycle. Improperly itemized and documented items, as
well as interest, carrying charges, or penalties caused by improperly
submitting items shall be the responsibility of the individual user who causes
the expense to the town.
      (3)   Any department head who abuses the charge card will be restricted
from future credit card use and subject to disciplinary action where
appropriate.
(Ord. 12 of 2015, passed 10-12-2015)
§ 34.05 FUNDS FOR TOWN BUSINESSES.
   (A)   The town may pay promotional and business expenses that are prudent
costs of doing the business of governing which costs could include, but are not
limited to the following:
      (1)   Rental of meeting places;
      (2)   Meals;
      (3)   Decorations;
      (4)   Memorabilia and commemorative objects;
      (5)   Awards;
      (6)   Expenses incurred in promoting industrial, commercial, residential
development, and tourism within the town;
      (7)   Expenses incurred in developing relationships with other
governmental units;
      (8)   Expenses for membership dues, assessments, conference
registrations, and other assistance in local, regional, state and national
associations of a civic, educational or governmental nature which have as their
purpose the betterment and improvement of municipal operations whether said
expenses are for Town Council Members, Council-Elect Members, the Clerk-
Treasurer, Town Manager, or Department Heads;
      (9)   Direct expenses incurred for travel, meals, and lodging in
conjunction with municipal business, meetings, or organizations to which the
municipality belongs; and
      (10)   Any other expense of a civic or governmental nature deemed by the
Town Council to be in the interest of the town (including an annual holiday
party).
   (B)   Expenses for employee meals, awards, gifts and other similar expenses
shall be in accordance with such expenses at a rate allowable by the State of
Indiana or within a reasonable relation thereto. Any expenses deemed excessive
by the Town Council shall not be paid under this section.
   (C)   No expenses shall be paid until there is an itemized detailed claim
which claim shall include details for mileage and travel expenses including
odometer miles and actual receipts for the expenses incurred.
   (D)   Promotional expense includes the transition expense and/or
reimbursement for newly-elected officials registrations and travel expenses to
IACT newly-elected officials training meetings, conferences, and schools.
   (E)   The Town Council shall budget and appropriate revenues from the town's
funds to pay the above approved expenses, or reimburse town officials as the
case may be for training expenses incurred in promoting the best interest of
the town.
(Ord. 16 of 2015, passed 12-30-2015)
§ 34.06 PREAPPROVED CLAIMS.
   (A)   Allowable claims. The town fiscal officer, under the auspices and
authority of I.C. 36-5-4-12(b), and I.C. 5-11-10-1.6, may make claim payments
in advance, upon prior written approval of the Town Council, or the board
having jurisdiction over allowance of the claims, of the following types of
expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
         (a)   The United States government; or
         (b)   An agency or political subdivision of the United States
government.
      (2)   License fees or permit fees.
      (3)   Insurance premiums.
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges.
      (5)   Federal grant programs, if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized under statute.
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements.
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements.
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds.
      (10)   Payroll.
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes.
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances.
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance, and duly adopted by the Town
Council.
   (B)   Supporting documentation. Each payment of expenses under this section
must be supported by a fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the
fiscal officer, as required by I.C. 5-11-10-1.6.
   (C)   Board review. The Town Council, or the board having jurisdiction over
the allowance of the claim shall review and allow the claim at the body’s or
board’s next regular or special meeting following the preapproved payment of
the expense.
(Ord. 11 of 2016, passed 9-12-2016)
CHAPTER 35: TOWN POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   ADA policy
   
35.02   Investment of public funds
   
35.03   Internal control standards
   
35.04   Materiality threshold
   
35.05   Title VI Plan adopted
   
35.06   Acceptance of gifts or other compensation by town officials or
employees
   
35.07   Uncollectible bad debts
   
35.08   Credit adjustments due to clerical or read errors
   
35.09   Utility Complex; rent and usage
   
35.10   County Economic Development Income Tax Capital Improvement Plan
   
35.11   Requests for law enforcement body camera recordings
   
35.12   Capital asset policy
   
35.13   Electronic funds transfer (EFT) established
§ 35.01 ADA POLICY.
   (A)   In general. In accordance with the requirements of title II of the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (“ADA”), the town will not discriminate
against qualified individuals with disabilities on the basis of disability in
its services, programs, or activities.
      (1)   Employment. The town does not discriminate on the basis of
disability in its hiring or employment practices and complies with all
regulations promulgated by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
under title I of the ADA.
      (2)   Effective communication. The town will generally, upon request,
provide appropriate aids and services leading to effective communication for
qualified persons with disabilities so they can participate equally in town
programs, services, and activities, including qualified sign language
interpreters, documents in Braille, and other ways of making information and
communications accessible to people who have speech, hearing, or vision
impairments.
      (3)   Modifications to policies and procedures.
         (a)   The town will make all reasonable modifications to policies and
programs to ensure that people with disabilities have an equal opportunity to
enjoy all of its programs, services, and activities. For example, individuals
with service animals are welcomed in the town, even where pets are generally
prohibited.
         (b)   Anyone who requires an auxiliary aid or service for effective
communication, or a modification of policies or procedures to participate in a
program, service, or activity of the town should contact the office of the Town
Manager, 120 W. Main St, Winamac, IN 46996, 574-946-3451; as soon as possible
but no later than 48 hours before the scheduled event.
         (c)   The ADA does not require the town to take any action that would
fundamentally alter the nature of its programs or services, or impose an undue
financial or administrative burden.
         (d)   Complaints that a program, service, or activity of the town is
not accessible to persons with disabilities should be directed to the Town
Manager, 120 W. Main St, Winamac, IN 46996, 574-946-3451.
         (3)   The town will not place a surcharge on a particular individual
with a disability or any group of individuals with disabilities to cover the
cost of providing auxiliary aids/services or reasonable modifications of
policy, such as retrieving items from locations that are open to the public but
are not accessible to persons who use wheelchairs.
   (B)   Grievance procedure.
      (1)   This grievance procedure is established to meet the requirements of
the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (“ADA”). It may be used by anyone
who wishes to file a complaint alleging discrimination on the basis of
disability in the provision of services, activities, programs, or benefits by
the town. The town’s personnel policy governs employment-related complaints of
disability discrimination. (See §
31.01.)
      (2)   The complaint should be in writing and contain information about
the alleged discrimination such as name, address, phone number of complainant
and location, date, and description of the problem. Alternative means of filing
complaints, such as personal interviews or an audio recording of the complaint
will be made available for persons with disabilities upon request.
      (3)   The complaint should be submitted by the grievant and/or his or her
designee as soon as possible but no later than 60 calendar days after the
alleged violation to the ADA Coordinator/Town Manager 120 W. Main Street
Winamac, IN 46996 574-946-3451.
      (4)   Within 15 calendar days after receipt of the complaint, the ADA
Coordinator/Town Manager or his or her designee will meet with the complainant
to discuss the complaint and the possible resolutions. Within 15 calendar days
of the meeting, the ADA Coordinator/Town Manager or his or her designee will
respond in writing, and where appropriate, in a format accessible to the
complainant, such as large print, Braille, or audio recording. The response
will explain the position of the town and offer options for substantive
resolution of the complaint.
      (5)   If the response by the ADA Coordinator/Town Manager or his or her
designee does not satisfactorily resolve the issue, the complainant and/or his
or her designee may appeal the decision within 15 calendar days after receipt
of the response to the Town Council.
      (6)   Within 35 calendar days after receipt of the appeal, the Town
Council or their designee will meet with the complainant to discuss the
complaint and possible resolutions. Within 15 calendar days after the meeting,
the Town Council or their designee will respond in writing, and, where
appropriate, in a format accessible to the complainant, with a final resolution
of the complaint.
      (7)   All written complaints received by the ADA Coordinator/Town Manager
or his or her designee, appeals to the Town Council or their designee, and
responses from these two offices will be retained by the town for at least
three years.
(Ord., passed 8-13-2012; Am. Ord., passed 8-13-2012)
Cross-references:
   ADA complains from town employees, see §
31.01
§ 35.02 INVESTMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 5-13-9-5.7, the Winamac Town Council hereby authorizes the
investing officer to make investments having a stated final maturity that is
more than two years, but not more than five years after the date of purchase
under the following circumstances:
   (A)   The fiscal body of the town shall first adopt an investment policy
authorizing the investment of public funds of the Town for more than two years
and not more than five years in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-5.7(a) and (b).
   (B)   This section and the power to make an investment having a stated final
maturity that is more than two years, but not more than five years after the
date of purchase expire on the date on which the investment policy expires,
which may not exceed four years.
   (C)   At the time an investment of public funds of the town is made having a
stated final maturity that is more than two years, but not more than five
years, the total of such investments of the town may not exceed 25% of the
total portfolio of public funds invested by the town, including balances in
transaction accounts.
   (D)   An investing officer may contract with a federally regulated
investment advisor or other institutional money manager to make such
investments.
(Ord. 5 of 2015, passed 7-3-2015)
§ 35.03 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   Mission. The town finds that its mission, as related to an internal
control system is as follows:
         (a)   The provision of a democratic government structure at the
grassroots level;
         (b)   The provision of services as determined through the political
process, including, but not limited to:
            1.   The Winamac Municipal Electrical Utility (the "Electric
Utility");
            2.   The Winamac Municipal Waterworks Utility (the "Waterworks");
and
            3.   The Winamac Municipal Sewer Works (the "Sewer Works");
      (2)   Principles of adherence. The town adopts and directs the following
17 principles in explanation of the pertinent standards above, to be followed
at all levels of town government:
         (a)   Control environment.
            1.   The oversight body and management demonstrate a commitment to
integrity and ethical values. The Town has the responsibility to establish and
maintain an adequate system of internal control and to furnish to the Town
Council, various boards and commissions, governmental agencies, creditors and
others, reliable financial information on a timely basis. An adequate system of
internal control is necessary for the town to discharge these responsibilities.
            2.   The oversight body oversees the town's internal control
system. As the fiscal body for the town, the Town Council is responsible for
setting the institutional expectations for internal control, ensuring
management is aware of those expectations, requiring the upward communications
channels are open through all levels of management, and evaluating management's
effectiveness toward monitoring the control environment and implementing sound
control policies and procedures. As the town's chief fiscal officer, the Town
Clerk-Treasurer will be the Town Council's chief agent in implementing and
managing the internal control policies and procedures.
            3.   Management establishes an organizational structure, assigns
responsibility, and delegates authority to achieve the town's objectives.
Individuals with delegated approval authority, such as elected officials and
department heads, are responsible for establishing, maintaining, and supporting
a system of internal controls within their areas of responsibility and for
creating the control environment that encourages compliance with town policies
and procedures.
            4.   Management demonstrates a commitment to attract, develop, and
retain competent individuals. The Town Employee Handbook provides a roadmap for
recruiting and maintaining quality employees. Prior to employment, individuals
may be subject to pre-employment background screening and/or a credit history
check. Job descriptions will be updated where necessary to reflect internal
control responsibilities and duties. Employees will be regularly trained in
internal control methods and all training will be documented in employees'
personnel files. Employees will be regularly evaluated by their supervisors on
internal control duties and receive feedback on possible improvements.
            5.   Management evaluates performance and holds individuals
accountable for their internal control responsibilities, as well as adherence
to all standards and procedures, as set forth in this section. Individuals will
be held accountable for their internal control responsibilities through a
recognized structure, which includes relevant job descriptions, operating
procedures, periodic reviews, regular feedback, and a disciplinary policy.
         (b)   Risk assessment.
            1.   Management defines objectives clearly, to enable the
identification of risks and defines risk tolerances. Management conveys and
identifies objectives, missions, policies, and risk tolerances to employees.
            2.   Management identifies, analyzes, and responds to risk related
to achieving the defined objectives.
            3.   Management considers the potential for fraud when identifying,
analyzing, and responding to risks. Fraud responses will include statutorily
required responses to fraud, including, but not limited to I.C. 5-11-1-27(l)
relating to the report of misappropriation of funds to State Board of Accounts
and Prosecuting Attorney and I.C. 5-11-l-27(j) relating to the report of
material variances, losses, shortages or thefts to the State Board of Accounts.
The town shall utilize a materiality threshold of $300 for cash funds, and $500
for non-cash and town property.
            4.   Management identifies, analyzes, and responds to significant
changes that could impact the internal control system. The Town Council, in
coordination with department heads, will regularly evaluate and adjust internal
control policies in order to accommodate for the impact of future changes,
including but not limited to, personnel changes, newly elected officials, new
programs, new technology, new laws and regulations, and financial fluctuations.
         (c)   Control activities.
            1.   Management designs control activities to achieve objectives
and respond to risks. The Clerk-Treasurer, along with the Town Council, will
establish and maintain a system of internal controls that satisfies the town's
objectives in the following categories:
               a.   Risks are identified and effectively managed;
               b.   Safeguarding of town assets.
               c.   Reliability and integrity of financial information;
               d.   Compliance with town policy, plans, procedures, laws and
regulations.
               e.   Economic and efficient use of town resources.
               f.   Meeting established objectives and goals for town
operations and programs.
            2.   General internal controls principles for each department,
include:
               a.   Separation of duties. Duties are separated so that one
person's work routinely serves as a check on another's work.
               b.   Authorization and approval. Proposed transactions are
authorized when proper and consistent with town policy and the department's
plans.
               c.   Custodial and security arrangements. Responsibility for
physical security/custody of town assets are separated from record keeping and
accounting for those assets.
               d.   Timely and accurate review and reconciliation. Departmental
accounting records and documents are examined by employees who have sufficient
understanding of the town accounting and financial systems to verify that
recorded transactions actually took place and were made in accordance with town
policies and procedures. Furthermore, departmental accounting records and
documental are compared with town accounting system reports and financial
statements to verify their reasonableness, accuracy, and completeness.
            3.   Management designs the town's information system and related
control activities to achieve objectives to respond to risks. The department
heads will work with any information technology units to ensure that
information technology is used as an integral part of the internal control
system.
            4.   Management implements control activities through policies. The
town has an employee handbook that is regularly updated to communicate policies
to employees. Additionally, the Clerk-Treasurer regularly works with
departments and employees who handle financial transactions to recommend and
ensure best practices. All procedures are in writing and communicated
frequently to all relevant employees.
         (d)   Information and communication.
            1.   Management uses quality information to achieve the town's
objectives. The Town Clerk-Treasurer and other department heads attend training
and industry seminars to stay abreast of changes and developments in
requirements and communicate that information effectively to impacted
employees. By adopting standards and investing in systems that exceed state-
mandated minimums, town management provides employees and stakeholders with
high quality information.
            2.   Management internally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town's objectives. Internal communications on
internal controls are communicated through adoption of formal policies by
relevant boards and commissions and/or the Town Council, or documented through
memos from the appropriate department head.
            3.   Management externally communicates the necessary quality
information to achieve the town's objectives. Communication with the State
Board of Accounts, other state agencies, grantor agencies, and regulatory
agencies are documented by email, memos, letters, and other forms of written
correspondence. Logs are kept for information provided verbally. All documents
are maintained in accordance with the town and state's record retention
policies. Reports and policies are cross-checked for accuracy, relevancy, and
timeliness of information.
         (e)   Monitoring.
            1.   Management establishes and operates monitoring activities to
monitor the internal control system and evaluate the results. town
administration will monitor and evaluate compliance with internal control
policies via multiple vectors. Separation of duties, redundancy policies,
layered approval systems, monthly reports, and physical controls allow
management to both review and evaluate control systems. Monitoring activities
will be documented by signatures, initials, or other appropriate methods.
            2.   Management remediates identified internal control deficiencies
on a timely basis. Breaches of internal controls are subject to significant
levels of internal scrutiny. If informed of a material breach of internal
controls, the Town Council shall actively investigate and address said breach
and adjust policies and procedures to prevent such breaches in the future. Once
breaches are identified and investigated, a formal or informal corrective plan
will be developed.
   (B)   Implementation.
      (1)   Directive. The Town Council directs that the above standards are
used to design, implement, operate and modify current operations, reporting and
compliance objectives that will safeguard the assets of the town, promote
reliability, accountability, and transparency of financial and non-financial
information and to assure compliance with laws and regulations for each office,
department, and personnel for an effective and reasonable internal control
system of the town.
      (2)   Application to town personnel. Town personnel, whether an official
or employee, whose official duties include receiving, processing, depositing,
disbursing, or otherwise having access to funds that belong to the federal
government, state government, a political subdivision, or another governmental
entity shall comply with these minimum internal control standards and
procedures and any other policy regarding standards and procedures determined
necessary by the town now, and as modified in the future.
      (3)   Training. Town personnel, whether an official or employee, whose
official duties include receiving, processing, depositing, disbursing, or
otherwise having access to funds that belong to the federal government, state
government, a political subdivision, or another governmental entity shall be
trained at least once during a calendar year and annually thereafter, unless on
leave status, on the minimum internal control standards and procedures and any
other standards and procedures determined necessary by the Town Council and
shall cooperate with the town's fiscal officer or designee so that the fiscal
officer can timely certify to the State Board of Accounts that the training was
received annually by the personnel as provided by law.
      (4)   Personnel defined. The town authorizes the Town Council to
determine the position and persons who are personnel, as referred to in
division (B)(2)(3), and to notify such personnel.
      (5)   Management defined. As used in this section, Management shall mean
the Town Council of the Town of Winamac, the Clerk-Treasurer of the town, and
the Town Manager of the town.
      (6)   Failure to abide. Any employee who fails to abide by or cooperate
with the implementation, compliance and certifications connected with the
Internal Control System, commits a violation of and may result in the
discipline, including termination, of the employee. An elected or appointed
official of the town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation
and the mandated certifications of the Internal Control System may be subject
to any action allowed by law.
   (C)   Oversight directive.
      (1)   Compliance. The Town Council calls upon all town officials,
employees, and agents to enforce and comply with this policy on materiality and
adhere to the appropriate process for reporting material variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts, and to report noteworthy items to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer, the Town Manager, or the Town Council.
      (2)   Oversight body. The Town Council directs its Oversight Committee,
as well as the Town Clerk-Treasurer and the Town Manager, to monitor, as it
deems necessary, compliance with the policy on materiality and process of
reporting material items and report noteworthy items to the full Town Council.
      (3)   Changes. The Town Council asks the Clerk-Treasurer to advise the
Town Council of any changes in the policy on materiality and process for
reporting material items, as directed in the corresponding Clerk-Treasurer's
directive. This section, and the standards and procedures, will be inspected
annually, on the first meeting in January, and changes will be made as mandated
by state law or as otherwise needed according to the town's needs.
(Ord. 7 of 2016, passed 6-13-2016)
§ 35.04 MATERIALITY THRESHOLD.
   (A)   Materiality Threshold.
      (1)   Materiality defined. As used in this section, "material" shall mean
a significant or consequential amount, as it pertains to the town, taking into
account the town's size, demographics, calculation of monthly receivables, as
well as the form or method of payment. The Town Council establishes that such
significant or consequential amounts, warranting action under division (B)
shall be as follows:
         (a)   Cash, checks and other bearer instruments. It will be the policy
of the Town Council that any erroneous or irregular variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts of cash in excess of $200, except for inadvertent clerical
errors that are identified timely and promptly with no loss to the town, shall
be deemed material, and reported in accordance with division (B).
         (b)   Credit card and Other EFT and non-cash items. It will be the
policy of the Town Council that any erroneous or irregular variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts of credit card, EFT, or other non-cash items, including
town property, in excess of $500, estimated market value, except for those
resulting from inadvertent clerical errors or misplacements that are identified
timely, and promptly corrected with no loss to the town, and except for losses
from genuine accidents, shall be deemed material and reported in accordance
with division (B).
   (B)   Material variances.
      (1)   Reporting mandate. All erroneous or irregular material variances,
losses, shortages, or thefts of political subdivision funds or property shall
be reported immediately to the State Board of Accounts. As per I.C. 5-1 l-l-27
(j) the State Board of Accounts shall take appropriate investigative and/or
enforcement action, as it deems necessary, in order to rectify said material
variances, losses, shortages, or thefts.
      (2)   Public officer duties. A public officer, as that term is defined by
I.C. 5-11-1-16(d), who has actual knowledge of or reasonable cause to believe
that there has been a misappropriation of public funds or assets of the public
office, shall immediately send written notice of the misappropriation to the
State Board of Accounts and the prosecuting attorney serving in Pulaski County.
These misappropriations include:
         (a)   Information obtained as a result of a police report;
         (b)   An internal audit finding; or
         (c)   Another source indicating that a misappropriation has occurred;
   (C)   Oversight Directive.
      (1)   The Town Council hereby endorses the Clerk-Treasurer Directive,
attached as Appendix, regarding a policy on materiality and a process for
reporting material items.
      (2)   Compliance. The Town Council calls upon all town officials,
employees, and agents to enforce and comply with this policy on materiality and
adhere to the appropriate process for reporting material variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts, and to report noteworthy items to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer or the Town Council.
      (3)   Oversight Committee. The Town Council directs its Oversight
Committee to monitor, as it deems necessary, compliance with the policy on
materiality and process of reporting material items and report noteworthy items
to the full Town Council.
      (4)   Changes. The Town Council asks the Clerk-Treasurer to advise the
Town Council of any changes in the policy on materiality and process for
reporting material items, as directed in the corresponding Clerk-Treasurer's
Directive.
(Ord. 6 of 2016, passed 5-9-2016)
§ 35.05 TITLE VI PLAN ADOPTED.
   (A)   The town wishes to formally adopt and implement a policy and procedure
for the benefit of all Winamac citizens including members of the LGBT
population of this town.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby adopts the Title VI Program and Implementation
Plan attached to Res. 5 of 2017, a copy of which is available for inspection
and review in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer during normal business
hours.
(Res. 5 of 2017, passed 5-8-2017)
§ 35.06 ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS OR OTHER COMPENSATION BY TOWN OFFICIALS AND
EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      AGENCY. Every department, office, board, commission or committee of the
town.
      COMPENSATION. Any money, thing of value, service or economic benefit
conferred upon or received by any elected official, officer or employee from
any person except the town or agency in return for services rendered or to be
rendered, but does not mean items or property excluded herein from the
definition of gifts or honoraria.
      ELECTED OFFICIAL. The town's duly elected Clerk-Treasurer and town
Council Members.
      EMPLOYEE. Any individual, other than an elected official, who is employed
by the town and to whom the town has the right to control the details of his/
her work performance.
      FINANCIAL INTEREST. An interest which results in or is reasonably
intended to result in an ascertainable interest in the income or net worth of
an elected official, officer or employee or a member of the elected officials,
officer's or employee's immediate family.
      GIFTS or HONORARIA. Money or other property which is transferred to an
elected official, officer, or employee without reasonable value being provided
for same by said elected official, officer, or employee, but does not include:
         (a)   Invitations, tickets, food and drink provided to an elected
official, officer, or employee or a member of his/her immediate family, during
the conduct of official town business or at public ceremonies; or
         (b)   Mementos or souvenirs of nominal value received at public
ceremonies or commemorating official town business; or
         (c)   Invitations or tickets to political fundraising dinners or
public events when used by an elected official, officer, or employee, or a
member of his/her immediate family; or
         (d)   Food or drink consumed by an elected official, officer, or
employee in connection with official town business at a convention, reception,
conference or gathering of other public officials and/or other municipal
officers or employees; or
         (e)   Travel or other expenses paid or reimbursed as a result of
speaking engagements, educational training, or personal appearances made as a
result of or by virtue of an elected official's, officer's, or employee's
official position or duties within the town; or
         (f)   Donations made to a recognized and approved town donation
account to benefit an agency of the town, as a whole or a majority of an
agency.
      OFFICER. A person appointed to an office or position in any agency within
the town.
   (B)   Standards of ethical conduct.
      (1)   Accepting gifts or honoraria. No elected official, officer, or
employee will accept gifts or honoraria that individually exceed the value of
$100 or that cumulatively exceed the value of $250 in any calendar year from
any person or business entity that is doing business with the town and/or any
agency. An elected official, officer, or employee is prohibited from accepting
anything of monetary value from any business entity when the intent, either
implied or expressed, is to give special consideration or influence which may
result in a benefit or gain to a person or business entity. However, this does
not prohibit the receipt of political or other contributions that are lawful
under and reported in accordance with Indiana law, and/or which are accepted on
behalf of the town or any agency.
      (2)   Improper use of official position. No elected official, officer, or
employee volunteer will use or permit the use of their official position, funds
or property under their control, direction or custody, to be used for the
private benefit of the elected official, officer or employee or their immediate
family; provided that the same is available on equal terms to the general
public, unless the use is expressly permitted by a general written policy, as
approved by a majority of the Town Council.
      (3)   Disqualification. Any elected official, officer, or employee shall
disqualify himself/herself and refuse to take final action on any matter in
which they or a member of their immediate family has a financial interest,
except for the adoption of the annual town salary ordinances and the town
budget.
      (4)   Contracting with relatives. I.C. 36-1-21 establishes minimum
requirements regarding contracting with relatives of elected officials of the
town, therefore all contracts between the town and any party are subject to,
and must comply with, the provisions as set forth in I.C. 36-1-21.
      (5)   Divulging confidential information. In the course of any elected
official's, officer's, or employee's association with the town, public
officials, officers, and employees will have access to personal, sensitive,
financial and business information that is confidential in nature. All public
officials, officers, and employees are required to respect the confidentiality
of information they receive in all forms of communication, including, but not
limited to: computerized data, hard copy records, fax, email, verbal
communication, texting and employee pay records. Although some of this
information may be a matter of public record or accessible to the public
through a public records request, such information will be treated as
confidential in the normal course of business and will not be revealed or
discussed except as necessary and with the appropriate persons or agencies in
the performance of an individual's responsibilities and job duties. Using
confidential information or town data for any purpose other than as required to
complete assigned work tasks is prohibited. Discussing confidential information
with anyone other than as required to complete assigned work tasks or removal
of confidential information from the worksite for any purpose other than as
required to complete assigned work tasks is prohibited. Any access by a public
official, officer, or employee to confidential information, either through
computer records or hard copy, will only be for legitimate business purposes,
in the course of the employee's job duties and responsibilities and when the
employee has a legal need to know. The fact that such information may be
accessible through a formal public records request will not affect its
confidentiality/proprietary status.
      (6)   Bribery. Any public official, officer, or employee is prohibited
from paying, offering to payor receiving any compensation or providing any
goods or services in the exchange for performance of an elected official,
officer, or employee's official duty, except as permitted by law.
(Ord. 2 of 2018, passed 5-14-2018)
§ 35.07 UNCOLLECTIBLE BAD DEBTS.
   (A)   Definition. For purposes of this section, debt is deemed UNCOLLECTIBLE
if it meets any of the following criteria:
      (1)   The debtor cannot be located and the debtor does not have any
readily ascertainable assets that can be located;
      (2)   The debtor has no assets and there is no reasonable expectation
they will have any in the future;
      (3)   The debt is disputed and the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer has
insufficient documentation to pursue collection efforts;
      (4)   The debt is discharged in bankruptcy;
      (5)   The debtor has died and there is no estate or guarantor;
      (5)   It is determined that it is not cost effective to continue
collection efforts.
   (B)   Mandatory reporting. All debt deemed uncollectible shall be reported
to the Town Council on a quarterly basis. Upon determination that the town has
employed and exhausted all reasonable means to obtain payment, a resolution
declaring the debts uncollectible shall be presented to the Town Council for
their consideration.
   (C)   Guidelines and threshold considerations.
      (1)   For accounts less than $40, the account will be written off upon
proper approval by the Town Council.
      (2)   For accounts $40 or more, the account will be reviewed by the
office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer that proper collection procedures were
followed and documented. Upon proper approval by the Town Council these
accounts may then be written off as bad debt.
      (3)   Any accounts that have been written off, due to being deemed
uncollectible, shall be flagged by the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer and
any future transactions by the same account holder will be denied until the
uncollectible balance is paid in full. Provided, however, that this mandate
shall not apply to any debt that is fully discharged in bankruptcy or if the
account was disputed and the office of the Clerk-Treasurer has insufficient
documentation to pursue collection efforts.
(Ord. 11 of 2018, passed 11-12-2018)
§ 35.08 CREDIT ADJUSTMENTS DUE TO CLERICAL OR READ ERRORS.
   (A)   In the event that a customer receiving town services is found to have
either a charge for a service not provided by the town or is receiving a
service provided by the town without charge, or at a reduced rate, a two-year
"look back" period is hereby established as the period for determining an
appropriate billing credit or charge.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, should an adjustment be required
due to a clerical or read error, or any other mechanical error, which has lead
to a customer being charged for a service not provided by the town or is
receiving a service provided by the town without charge, or at a reduced rate:
      (1)   If the error accounts for a $250 or less discrepancy, the office of
the Town Clerk- Treasurer may approve and make the adjustment upon proper
documentation being presented or gathered and placed in the account file.
      (2)   If the error accounts for a $250 or greater discrepancy, the
discrepancy shall be presented to the Town Council for proper determination.
(Ord. 12 of 2018, passed 11-12-2018)
§ 35.09 UTILITY COMPLEX; RENT AND USAGE.
   (A)   Annual rent.
      (1)   The town Water Department shall be permitted to utilize the Complex
for day- to-day operations and storage and for all permitted activities
incidental thereto for the sum of $6,000 per year ("the Water Department
rent"). The Water Department rent shall be made in two bi-annual installment
payments of $3,000 payable on January 2 and July 1 each year hereafter, unless
otherwise modified.
      (2)   The town Street Department shall be permitted to utilize the
Complex for day-to- day operations and for all permitted activities incidental
thereto for the sum of $3,000 per year ("the Street Department rent"), payable
out of the town's general fund. The Street Department rent shall be made in two
bi-annual installment payments of $1,500 payable on January 2 and July 1 each
year hereafter, unless otherwise modified.
      (3)   The town Electric Department shall be permitted to utilize the
Complex for day- to-day operations and storage and for all permitted activities
incidental thereto, for and in consideration of the town Electric Department
paying all utilities, telephone charges, insurance requirements and maintenance
and repair costs associated with the Complex.
   (B)   Term. This rental term shall continue into perpetuity unless this
section is hereafter modified by the Town Council at a meeting open to the
general public.
(Ord. 6 of 2019, passed 5-13-2019)
§ 35.10 COUNTY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the Capital Improvement Plan of the Town of
Winamac, Indiana, which is attached to Ordinance 10 of 2023 and incorporated by
reference as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   This section shall be effective January 1, 2024, and shall continue
until December 31, 2025.
(Ord. 19 of 2019, passed 11-18-2019; Am. Ord. 22 of 2021, passed 12-13-2021;
Am. Ord. 10 of 2023, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 35.11 REQUESTS FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT BODY CAMERA RECORDINGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT ACTIVITY.
         (a)   A traffic stop;
         (b)   A pedestrian stop;
         (c)   An arrest;
         (d)   A search;
         (e)   An investigation;
         (f)   A pursuit;
         (g)   Crowd control;
         (h)   Traffic control; or
         (i)   Any other instance in which a law enforcement officer is
enforcing the law.
The term LAW ENFORCEMENT ACTIVITY does not include an administrative activity,
including the completion of paperwork related to a law enforcement activity or
a custodial interrogation conducted in a place of detention as described in
Indiana Evidence Rule 617, regardless of the ultimate admissibility of a
statement made during the custodial interrogation.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT RECORDING. An audio, visual or audiovisual recording of a
law enforcement activity captured by a camera or other device that is:
         (a)   Provided to or used by a law enforcement officer in the scope of
the officer's duties; and
         (b)   Designed to be worn by a law enforcement officer or attached to
the vehicle or transportation of a law enforcement officer.
   (B)   Law enforcement recordings. Should the Police Chief decide to require
the use of Department-issued body cameras, in his sole and absolute discretion,
any law enforcement recording, for which disclosure is not otherwise prohibited
pursuant to state or federal law or any duly enacted ordinance by the town, is
subject to inspection during the regular business hours of the Police
Department, if a formal request is made and said request:
      (1)   Identifies with reasonable particularity the record being
requested.
         (a)    A request identifies a law enforcement with reasonable
particularity only if it includes:
            1.   The date and approximate time of the law enforcement activity;
            2.   The specific location where the law enforcement activity
occurred;
            3.   The name of at least one individual other than the law
enforcement officer who was directly involved in the law enforcement activity.
         (b)   Is in writing on a form provided by the Police Department.
   (C)   Time frame for inspection. Within 21 days following a formal request
being made the town shall either:
      (1)   Provide the requested copies of the law enforcement recording to
the person making the request; or
      (2)   Allow the person to make copies:
         (a)   On the agency's equipment; or
         (b)   On the person's own equipment.
   (D)   Exceptions to disclosure.  
      (1)   Notwithstanding anything else set forth in this section, all of
those exceptions stated in I.C. 5-14-3-4 or elsewhere provided under state and
federal law, apply to any disclosure requested under this section.
      (2)   Before disclosing any law enforcement recording, the agency must
comply with the obscuring requirements as set forth in I.C. 5-14-3 et seq.
   (E)   Retention of unobscured recording. The agency shall retain an
unaltered, unobscured law enforcement recording for at least 190 days after the
date of recording, pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-5.3, subject to those exceptions set
forth in I.C. 5-14-3-5.3(c) and (d).
   (F)   Required fee. The fee for the agency providing a duplicate of a law
enforcement recording shall be $150. The fee collected under the division (F)
for the copying of a law enforcement recording shall be:
      (1)   Payable to the Clerk-Treasurer's office and used without
appropriation for one or more of the following purposes:
         (a)   To purchase cameras and other equipment for use in connection
with the agency's law enforcement recording program;
         (b)   For training concerning law enforcement recording;
         (c)   To defray the expenses of storing, producing and copying law
enforcement recordings.
      (2)   Money from a fee described in this section does not revert to the
local general fund at the end of the fiscal year.
(Ord. 20 of 2019, passed 11-18-2019; Am. Ord. 16 of 2021, passed 10-11-2021)
§ 35.12 CAPITAL ASSET POLICY.
   (A)   Classification of assets. The capital assets are personal property and
real property and other assets used it the operations of the government that
have an expected estimated useful life beyond a single reporting period.
Capital assets are to include any item that falls into one of the following
categories:
      (1)   Land.
      (2)   Improvements to land.
      (3)   Buildings.
      (4)   Furnishings and equipment.
      (5)   Vehicles.
      (6)   Computer software.
      (7)   General infrastructure.
      (8)   Construction in progress.
   (B)   Capitalization thresholds.
      (1)   To be considered a capital asset for financial reporting purposes,
an item must at the item of acquisition, be valued for accounting and financial
reporting purposes at a unit value greater than or equal to $5,000 (also $5,000
if funded through a federal grant).
      (2)   Assets shall remain as part of the property record until they are
retired, sold, traded, or otherwise disposed of regardless of their net book
value amount.
      (3)   The capitalization threshold for the following classes of assets
shall be:
         (a)   Land: N/A.
         (b)   Improvements to land: $10,000.
         (c)   Buildings: $25,000.
         (d)   Furnishings and equipment and vehicles: $5,000.
         (e)   Federal grant furnishings and equipment: $5,000.
         (f)   Computer software: $10,000.
         (g)   General infrastructure: $25,000.
         (h)   Construction in progress: N/A.
      (4)   With regard to improvements to buildings and general
infrastructure, a capital outlay must be significant and increase capacity,
increase efficiency, or extend the asset's estimated useful life beyond what
was originally estimated.
      (5)   A change in capacity increases the level of service provided by the
asset. A change in efficiency either increases the level or service asset or
other change maintains the same level of service at a lower cost. For example,
an addition to a building provides increased square footage; hence, the
capacity is increased, and the capital outlay is capitalized. Widening a road
with additional lanes increase capacity; hence, the capital outlay is
capitalized. An extended estimated useful life will result from a significant
alternation, structural change, or improvement.
      (6)   While substantial repairs and renovations shall be reviewed for
potential capitalization, it is anticipated that most will be expensed in the
current year. These expenses often merely restore the asset to its original
service potential but do not necessarily improve the asset.
      (7)   All land, including rights-of-way, shall be capitalized at the time
of acquisition. If donated, it shall be recorded at its estimated acquisition
value.
   (C)   Annual updating and reporting. Capital assets shall be recorded at
historical cost which includes any ancillary charges necessary to place the
asset into its intended location and condition for use. Ancillary charges
include: freight and transportation charges, site preparation cost, and
professional fees. Engineering costs (internal and external) include: related
preliminary project and environmental studies, project estimating, design, and
planning (drawings and specifications), construction engineering, construction
management, construction inspection and project payment. However, no such costs
shall be capitalized unless they can be directly identified to a specific
capital asset and have been incurred subsequent to the determination that the
capital asset will, in fact, be acquired (the costs of a feasibility study are
not capitalized, nor are other costs related to the project occurring prior to
its completion). Donated capital assets are recorded at the value that would be
necessary to acquire them.
   (D)   Estimated useful lives of depreciable assets. The capital assets have
estimated useful live extending beyond a single reporting period (one year) and
are depreciated using the straight-line method with no allowance for salvage
value. The estimated useful lives currently used were developed with the input
of knowledgeable staff and reflect our government's experience with these
assets:
      (1)   Land: non-depreciable.
      (2)   Improvements to land: 20 years.
      (3)   Buildings: 50 years.
      (4)   Furnishings and equipment: five years.
      (5)   Vehicles:
         (a)   Autos: five years.
         (b)   Light trucks: ten years.
         (c)   Heavy trucks: 15 years.
         (d)   Fire trucks: 30 years.
      (6)   General infrastructure: 50 years.
      (7)   Computer software: five years.
   (E)   Depreciation method/convention. Depreciation will be calculated using
the straight-line method and full-year convention. No salvage value or residual
value will be recognized.
   (F)   Retirements.
      (1)   Retirements apply to all capital assets including land,
improvements to land, buildings, furnishings and equipment, vehicles, and
general infrastructure.
      (2)   When an asset is disposed of, scrapped, sold, subject to demotion,
etc., it is to be removed from the property record and the appropriate
reduction shall be made to the asset value, accumulated depreciation, and net
book value amount.
      (3)   Retirements shall reflect the originally recorded value of the
capital asset when the amount is ascertainable. When the originally recorded
value of the capital asset is not ascertainable, an estimate of that amount
(typically historical cost) shall be made.
   (G)   Responsibility for property record maintenance.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall ensure that appropriate accounting
capital assets is being exercised by establishing a capital asset inventory and
updating it each year. Each annual update shall reflect all improvements,
additions, retirements, and transfers hat occurred during the year.
      (2)   Day-to-day stewardship of personal property above the
capitalization threshold of $5,000 is the responsibility of the department
utilizing the property.
      (3)   To allow for the annual updating of the capital asset records, the
departments are responsible to report information on improvements, additions,
retirements, and transfers in detail to the Clerk-Treasurer. It is expected
that this reporting will be made in a timely manner, as the capital asset
record must be updated annually. These departments include but are not limited
to Public Works, Police and Fire, Parks, Engineering, Planning, and
Administration (in essence, the Clerk-Treasurer will record all additions and
the departments will determine all retirements and transfers and submit the
information to the Clerk-Treasurer).
      (4)   In summary, additions of assets at or above the unity
capitalization threshold of $5,000 are to be reported to the Clerk-Treasurer by
the departments upon purchase or receipt of the asset. These will be verified
per the purchasing process by the Clerk-Treasurer. Transfers and retirements of
assets at or above the $5,000 unit threshold are to be reported as such by the
departments to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time of the transaction.
   (H)   Assets purchased with federal grant funds. Assets at or above a
threshold of $5,00 on a unit basis funded with a federal grant are to be
reported for federal compliance purposes. To achieve this end a subsidiary list
or other indicator is to be established and maintained annually and includes
all such assets currently in use.
   (I)   Property control.
      (1)   Capital assets below the capitalization threshold of $5,000 on a
unit basis but warranting "control" shall be inventoried at the department
level and an appropriate list will be maintained. Data elements are to include
asset description, location, make, model, serial number, and other information
that assists control deemed relevant.
      (2)   Assets below the capitalization threshold but considered sensitive
may include, for example, weapons, radios, personal computers, laptop
computers, printers, fax machines, and small power tools. These minor but
sensitive items shall be inventoried and controlled at the department level.
Stewardship of these minor but sensitive items is the responsibility of the
departments utilizing these properties.
      (3)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall determine appropriate means, level of
detail elements, and the system to be utilized. Finally, the Clerk-Treasurer
shall request copies of the inventory and/or updated inventory of controllable
items to periodically review the information, adherence to policy, and check
the integrity of the data.
(Ord. 19 of 2021, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 35.13 ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER (EFT) ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Authorized use of EFT. The town is hereby authorized to use electronic
funds transfer (EFT) for official purposes.
   (B)   Authority of Clerk-Treasurer. The Town Clerk-Treasurer, or his or her
designee, is hereby authorized and responsible for:
      (1)   Selecting the financial institution(s) to be used by the town for
EFTs;
      (2)   Executing the application and agreement with the selected financial
institution(s) for the town;
      (3)   Overseeing the use of EFTs for official town business;
      (4)   Establishing appropriate security procedures for passwords, codes,
controls (including internal controls) and other authorizations to protect and
preserve the funds and assets of the town;
      (5)   Reviewing and confirming all transactions in connection with the
use of EFTs for proper authorization, documentation, itemization, and purpose,
as well as remedy any mistakes or delinquencies that may occur.
   (C)   Administration of payments. 
      (1)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall not draw a warrant for an EFT,
unless:
         (a)   There is a fully itemized invoice or bill for each expense;
         (b)   Each invoice or bill is approved by the authorized and
designated town purchasing agent;
         (c)   The invoice or bill is filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer;
         (d)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer audits and certifies before payment
that the invoice or bill is true and correct; and
         (e)   Payment of the invoice or bill is allowed by the Town Council on
the accounts payable register.
      (2)   All EFTs must be for official business of the town and shall not be
personal in nature.
   (D)   Defined. For purposes of this section, EFTs shall include automated
clearinghouse payments (ACHs), wire transfers, direct deposits, online banking
transactions, telephone transfers, and other electronically authorized or
implemented transfers or payments.
(Res. 2 of 2024, passed 4-8-2024)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE
      
52.   ELECTRICITY
      
53.   WATER
      
54.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Water, Light and Sewage Committee
   
50.02   Superintendent; duties
   
50.03   Examination and inspection
   
50.04   Rules governing consumers and other persons
   
50.05   Running of fixtures when not in use
   
50.06   Use from public water fixtures
   
50.07   Turning on or reopening of service
   
50.08   Service pipes
   
50.09   Meter deposits
   
50.10   Underground locates
   
50.11   Insufficient funds service
   
50.12   Underground and buried utilities district
Cross-reference:
   Adjustments to water and sewer bills due to undetected water leaks, see §
53.05
§ 50.01 WATER, LIGHT AND SEWAGE COMMITTEE.
   The Town Council shall have power to do and perform acts as may be necessary
for the prudent and efficient management and protection of the works not
inconsistent with the rules, regulations and laws pertaining thereto. They
shall examine the accounts of water, light and sewage, as audited by the
Superintendent. The accounts shall show all moneys received, also the
disbursements made, debts contracted, to whom, for what and when paid, with
voucher for every disbursement.
(`94 Code, § 10-3-1)
§ 50.02 SUPERINTENDENT; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Superintendent of the water, light and sewage plant shall have
immediate charge and control of the work, and it shall be the duty of the
Superintendent to see that the rules and regulations provided by the Town
Council are properly executed; that the conditions of all contracts in relation
to the plant are fully complied with; that assessments for water rents,
electric light and sewage rents are duly made, collected and paid into the Town
Treasury; to audit the accounts, claims, receipts and disbursements monthly and
submit the same to the Town Council with explanations as will enable them to
act advisedly thereon. He or she shall keep at his or her office a full and
complete record of all permits issued for taking water, light and sewage. He or
she shall purchase the fuel and other necessaries including all repairs
necessary for the operation of the plant and shall submit all bills approved by
him or her to the Town Council.
   (B)   He or she shall keep a correct record of all the records, books and
blanks as may be necessary to keep a correct account of all receipts and
disbursements and make a monthly report thereof to the Town Council and perform
other duties as the Town Council may require.
(`94 Code, § 10-3-2)
§ 50.03 EXAMINATION AND INSPECTION.
   The Superintendent shall have free access, at all reasonable hours, to all
parts of the premises to which water is supplied to make necessary examination
and inspection.
(`94 Code, § 10-3-3)
§ 50.04 RULES GOVERNING CONSUMERS AND OTHER PERSONS.
   All consumers must keep their service pipe and all fixtures connected
therewith in good repair and protected from frost at their own expense and must
prevent all unnecessary waste of water.
(`94 Code, § 10-3-4)
§ 50.05 RUNNING OF FIXTURES WHEN NOT IN USE.
   No consumer or other person shall permit any tap, hydrant, hose, water
closet, urinal, bath, faucet or other fixture to keep running when not in use.
(`94 Code, § 10-3-5)
§ 50.06 USE FROM PUBLIC WATER FIXTURES.
   No consumer or other person shall take any water for private use from any
public hydrant, plug, street washer, draw-cock, hose, pipe or fountain
furnished for fire purposes or other public use, without the consent of the
Water, Light and Sewage Committee and permit therefor having been received and
paid for.
(`94 Code, § 10-3-6)
Cross-reference:
   Opening of fire hydrants, see §
53.03
§ 50.07 TURNING ON OR REOPENING OF SERVICE.
   No consumer or other person, whose water service shall have been turned off
for any reason, shall turn on the water or reopen the service or permit the
same to be done by any person, except by order of the Superintendent.
(`94 Code, § 10-3-7)
§ 50.08 SERVICE PIPES.
   (A)   All service pipes must be placed at least 42 inches below the grade
and where the service pipes are laid in gravel or stony ground, the trench must
be excavated to a depth of 48 inches, then filled with six inches of loose top
soil, the pipe laid and covered with one foot of top soil and the remainder of
the trench filled in with material excavated. In refilling trenches, the earth
shall be laid in layers not less than four inches in depth and each layer shall
be thoroughly tamped so as to prevent after settling. The pavement, flagging
and entire surface of the street and gutter shall be restored to as good
condition as it was before it was taken up and all rubbish shall be removed
immediately after the completion of the work.
   (B)   No excavation in any street or public place shall be left open
overnight unless thoroughly protected by barricades and red lights kept burning
at same and any licensed plumber failing to protect his or her work shall be
personally liable on his or her bond for all loss and damage occasioned
thereby.
   (C)   Meters must be placed where secure from frost and convenient to be
read and the pipes connecting to be joined at each end of the meter by means of
a square faced union. Working room must be left all around the meter and a stop
or wastecock inserted where the service pipe enters the building.
(`94 Code, § 10-3-8)
§ 50.09 METER DEPOSITS.
   Authorized fee. For any individual(s) or entity/entities occupying real
property that is currently being serviced by the town Water Department or town
Electric Department, who is not the current owner(s) of record of the property,
and does not have at least two years worth of good, established credit with the
town or another unit, the following deposits shall be required for any such
individual or entity/entities:
      (1)   A water deposit in the sum of $225 shall be collected at the time
of commencement of town water service.
      (2)   An electric deposit in the sum of $275 shall be collected at the
time of commencement of town electric service.
      (3)   An electric deposit of $325 to a commercial establishment, or where
electric heat is utilized, shall be collected at the time of commencement of
town electric service.
   (B)   Requisite credit history defined. For purposes of this section GOOD
ESTABLISHED CREDIT HISTORY shall mean any individual(s) or entity/entities that
have not missed or been late on any payment for any water, electric or
wastewater utility charges for the two years immediately preceding application
for water or electric services with the town. A LATE PAYMENT is any payment
made after the fifteenth or any month where said charge is due and payable, for
the town, or any payment that is made after the due date for any other unit.
   (C)   Unit defined. For purposes of this section UNIT shall have that
meaning as set forth in I.C.36-1-2-23. UNIT shall also mean a private utility
provider, assuming good, established credit history can be proven via certified
invoices from the private utility provider in question.
(`94 Code, § 10-5) (Am. Ord. 7 of 2004, passed 6-14-2004; Am. Ord. 3 of 2009,
passed 2-9-2009; Am. Ord. 9 of 2013, passed 5-13-2013; Am. Ord. 10 of 2019,
passed 8-12-2019)
§ 50.10 UNDERGROUND LOCATES.
   (A)   Definitions. The terms as defined in I.C. 8-1-26-2 through 8-1-26-12
are hereby included by reference.
   (B)   Locating underground sanitary and storm sewer lines. Due to the
inability to located the most common types of underground facilities used in
the construction of sanitary sewer lines and storm sewer lines, the town will
only locate our main lines. Service lines from the main line to the property
line will only be located if an appropriate tracer wire is available and will
only be located from the property line to the main line. At no time will the
service line be traced from the property line into private property. It will be
the responsibility of the property owner and/or the person doing the work to
locate all other service lines located on private property.
   (C)   Locating underground water lines. The town will locate our water
mains. Where possible, we will locate service lines from the main to either a
curb stop, water meter, or the property line, whichever is in closest proximity
to the water main. At no time will the service line be traced from the property
line into private property. It will be the responsibility of the property owner
and/or the person doing the work to locate all other service lines located on
private property.
   (D)   Locating underground electric lines. The town will locate our
underground primary electric lines. We will only locate those secondary service
wires that the town has installed and maintains. It will be the responsibility
of the property owner and/or the person doing the work to locate all other
secondary service wires.
   (E)   Damage to underground utilities. The town will not be responsible for
damage to any underground utilities on private property.
(Ord. 9 of 2008, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 50.11 INSUFFICIENT FUNDS SERVICE.
   (A)   Insufficient funds service fee. Any user of any of the services
currently provided by the utilities of the town, who delivers any form of
payment to any collections agent, financial institution, or any other
intermediary or agent of the town, including the town itself, they being duly
authorized to receive such funds, and is dishonored due to insufficient funds,
shall be charged an insufficient funds service fee of $27.50, 5% of the amount
of the payment, whichever is greater (not to exceed $250), per transaction.
   (B)   Authority. Such power is expressly reserved to the town under the
applicable Indiana Code provision, and shall be administered strictly and in
adherence to said statute.
(Ord. 1 of 2016, passed 1-11-2016)
§ 50.12 UNDERGROUND AND BURIED UTILITIES DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to adopt a local policy
regarding the designation of locations within the incorporated areas of the
town as underground or buried utility areas pursuant to I.C. 8-1-32.3-15(c)(1).
   (B)   Designation. The town, through its Town Council, hereby establishes an
underground and buried utilities district (the “area”) to be in effect April
29, 2017, and to apply throughout the town’s rights-of-way and granted utility
easements, and is hereinafter defined as follows:
      (1)   In all areas of the town where no overhead or above ground
utilities, utility facilities, overhead lines, or associated overhead
structures used or useful in supplying electric, communication, or similar and
associated services currently exist;
      (2)   In all areas of the town where planned road projects, redevelopment
areas and/or economic development areas provide for and require underground
buried utilities and utility facilities, including but not limited to electric,
communication or similar and associated services; and
      (3)   In all other areas of the town’s rights-of-way throughout the town,
or in a utility easement granted by the town, whether or not above ground
utilities or utility facilities currently exist.
   (C)   Restrictions. With respect to the construction, placement, or use of a
small cell facility and the associated support structure, the Town Council
hereby restricts and prohibits the placement of new utility poles or new
wireless support structures in the designated area of the town rights-of-way as
outlined in this section, except as otherwise permitted in division (D) below.
   (D)   Exceptions. Notwithstanding the restrictions and prohibitions
contained in division (C) above, the following provisions shall be met and the
following exceptions are hereby permitted:
      (1)   Collocation of small cell facilities on existing utility poles and
wireless support structures within the incorporated areas of the town are
hereby allowed;
      (2)   Repair and/or replacement of existing utility poles and wireless
support structures within the incorporated areas of the town are hereby
allowed;
      (3)   A petition for a request to install new utility poles or new
wireless support structures within the incorporated areas of the town may be
filed with the Town Council, which shall hold a public hearing on such petition
within 30 days of the filing, and upon which a decision shall be made by the
Town Council within 60 days of the filing;
      (4)   Upon receipt of a petition for the construction, placement, or use
of a small cell facility on one or more new utility poles or one or more new
wireless support structures in the incorporated areas of the town, the town
shall post notice of the petition on the town’s internet website with a
statement that the petition is available to the public, upon request; and
      (5)   The prohibition or other restrictions with respect to the placement
of new utility poles or new wireless support structures within the incorporated
areas of the town shall be applied in a nondiscriminatory manner.
(Res. 4 of 2017, passed 4-29-2017)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Residential service
   
51.03   Business service
   
51.04   Authorized containers; fees
   
51.05   Improper disposal
   
51.06   Recyclable items
   
51.07   Yard waste
   
51.08   Restriction
   
51.09   Garbage carts
   
51.10   Town dump
   
51.11   Collection and disposal fee
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULK ITEMS. Those large items of personal property which includes, but is
not limited to furniture, mattresses, carpeting, tires, televisions and non-
Freon appliances.
   BRUSH. Leaves; hedge, shrub, bush or tree trimmings; limbs or sticks from
trees, bushes, shrubs, hedges, whether dead or alive, and other organic matter
normally associated with garden maintenance.
   BUSINESS. A commercial, religious and/or governmental entity.
   CONTAINER. Only approved, provided CONTAINERS will be collected.
   RECEPTACLE. Any trash/garbage container or dumpster.
   RECYCLABLE ITEMS. Items collected and processed by the county recycling
center.
   RECYCLING RECEPTACLE. Any receptacle issued by the contractor for the
disposal of recyclable items.
   RUBBISH. Unacceptable waste, including but not limited to crates, barrels,
building materials, lumber, concrete, metals, shavings, Freon-containing
appliances, liquids, liquid and water wastes which are normally disposed of in
a sanitary sewer, hazardous waste, rocks, ashes and/or animal carcasses.
   TOWN. Winamac, Indiana.
   TOWN-OWNED RECEPTACLE. Any receptacle located on town property, town parks
or on public sidewalks.
   TRASH or GARBAGE.
      (1)   Non-decaying solid and semi-solid items, except for rubbish, bulk
items and yard wastes;
      (2)   Waste resulting from handling, preparation, cooking for consumption
of food; and
      (3)   Waste from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   YARD WASTE. Grass cuttings and trimmings.
(Ord. 5 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 51.02 RESIDENTIAL SERVICE.
   (A)   The contractor will provide pickup and collection of trash and garbage
weekly and recycling every other week on a scheduled basis in accordance with
the provisions for containers and fees, as provided hereafter in this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or occupier of each
residence within the town to ensure that the property is free from trash,
garbage and/or rubbish and to keep the sidewalks and alleys adjacent to the
property free of trash, garbage, rubbish and/or yard waste, except as otherwise
provided.
   (C)   All trash/garbage must be placed in a container.
(Ord. 5 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 BUSINESS SERVICES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or manager of each
business within the town to insure that the business property is free from
trash, garbage and/or rubbish and to keep the sidewalks on the property free of
trash, garbage and rubbish, and to ensure that all trash, garbage and rubbish
is removed from the premises on a regularly scheduled basis.
   (B)   The town will provide for the pickup of one container of business
trash and garbage per week day, excluding holidays, provided that the business
is accessible by town garbage collection equipment.
   (C)   All trash/garbage must be placed in a plastic bag and placed in a
container.
(Ord. 5 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 AUTHORIZED CONTAINERS; FEES.
   (A)   Each residence shall be allowed a maximum of one container of garbage
and/or trash per week to be collected by the contractor at no charge provided
that the residence is accessible by contractor’s garbage collection equipment.
   (B)   Each additional bag must be purchased from the town at the Clerk/
Treasurer’s Office. Each bag shall cost $2.
   (C)   Containers must be placed at the curb except for the alley running
north and south between Market Street on the west, Monticello Street on the
east, and starting at Madison Street on the north and ending on Main Street on
the south and the alley running north and south between Market Street on the
east and Logan Street on the west starting at Pearl Street on the north and
ending at Main Street on the south, where they shall be placed at the alley.
Containers shall be so located so as to not be easily upset. The containers
must be placed not earlier than 5:00 p.m. the evening preceding the pickup day.
   (D)   Any container in excess of the one authorized herein, which is not a
special bag as required herein, shall not be picked up by the contractor.
(Ord. 5 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 IMPROPER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to dispose of trash, garbage, rubbish or yard
waste by burial or cremation.
   (B)   Rubbish will not be collected by the contractor and disposal remains
the sole responsibility of the owner or occupier of the property.
   (C)   Broken glass, needles and other sharp or otherwise dangerous objects
must be placed in a non- permeable receptacle prior to placement for
collection.
(Ord. 5 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 RECYCLABLE ITEMS.
   (A)   The contractor shall provide one contractor-owned recycling receptacle
for each residence and business for the disposal of recyclable items.
   (B)   The contractor will collect recyclable items every other week.
   (C)   The recyclable items, once collected, shall become subject to the
control of the contractor.
   (D)   Recycling shall be subject to guidelines as implemented by the county
recycling center.
(Ord. 5 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 51.07 YARD WASTE.
   (A)   Yard waste will not be collected by the town. It will be the
responsibility of the property owner or lawn care service firm to remove all
yard waste and properly dispose of it.
   (B)   During fall leaf collection, leaves shall be raked to the curb in the
street, except for Highway 35 where leaves are placed in the alley. Leaves
shall not extend more than four feet into the roadway and shall be raked clear
of utility poles and mailboxes. Leaves need to be kept separate from other
materials.
   (C)   The town will collect brush. Brush is to be placed in the alley for
collection.
   (D)   If a private tree firm is used, all brush will be the responsibility
of the property owner or tree service firm to remove and properly dispose.
(Ord. 5 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 RESTRICTION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person or business to use the container of
another person or business or any town-owned receptacle for the disposal of
trash, garbage, rubbish or yard waste. It shall be the responsibility of the
owner or occupier of the property of the location violated to notify the police
of the violation.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully upset or overturn or
take any receptacle or container for trash or garbage.
   (C)   Each day that the violation shall occur shall constitute a separate
violation for which the owner or occupier of the property shall be subject to a
fine as set out in §
51.99.
(Ord. 5 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 GARBAGE CARTS.
   (A)   Carts provided to be utilized as garbage containers.
      (1)   Required. It shall be the duty of every person owning or leasing a
residence or place of business in the town wherein garbage accumulates from
anything whatsoever to maintain in a clean and odor free condition a cart
provided by the town.
      (2)   Standards. The only container that may be used must be a cart that
the town, by and through its third party garbage collection contract, will
supply. Plastic garbage bags with tight-fitting tie closures may be used, but
shall be placed inside the cart or dumpster with the lids thereof being closed
at all times other than when something is being placed in them. Each cart
provided by the town will be equipped with convenient handles and wheels so it
will be readily moveable by one person. The carts shall be equipped with a
tight-fitting lid or cover so constructed that is shall be watertight, fly
proof, raccoon proof, and rat proof.
      (3)   Placement for collection. All carts must be put out for collection
by 6:00 a.m. on the day scheduled for the collection. All carts must have open
access for the trash collectors to retrieve them. For street pick-up, carts
shall be set out no more than 24 hours prior to the usual time of collection
and shall be removed within 24 hours after collection.
      (4)   For purposes of division (A)(3), set out means the premise owner
placing their cart within two feet from the edge of their property by the
street or curbside for the pickup of their trash, and removed shall mean the
premises owner taking their cart from their set out position and placing the
cart within their home or garage for storage. If a homeowner is incapable of
storing their cart within their home or garage or it is impractical for the
homeowner to store their cart within their home or garage, the cart may be
stored outside in a discrete place in close proximity, which shall not be
greater than five feet, from the home. A cart shall not be stored or placed in
any area that impedes pedestrian or vehicular traffic in a public right-of-way.
      (5)   Reasonable precautions must be taken by customers to protect the
carts from the depredations of dogs, cats and other animals to prevent the
scattering of the material stored in the cart until collected. At no time shall
the cart be removed from its assigned address.
      (6)   Storage of garbage. All garbage, trash or rubbish which accumulates
shall be deposited in either a cart or dumpster. The lid to every cart and
dumpster shall be kept on and closed at all times other than when placing items
in them.
   (B)   Enforcement/fines. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this
section shall pay a civil penalty of not more than $100 for each violation.
Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate
offense. In addition, any abatement procedures provided by law shall be in
addition to any penalties prescribed in this section.
(Ord. 8 of 2015, passed 9-14-2015)
§ 51.10 TOWN DUMP.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      APPROVED WASTE.  Branches, grass, and other forms of plant material that
constitute yard waste. This specifically excludes all other forms of waste,
including, but not limited to, trash, building materials, tires, furniture,
metal, rubber, and all other forms of man-made waste.
      TOWN DUMP. The property located at the northeast corner of 200 West and
50 North, and maintained by the town for use as a location for the dumping of
approved waste.
   (B)   Prohibited dumping; approved waste only. No person shall throw, place,
deposit, or cause to be thrown, placed, or deposited at the town dump any form
of trash, refuse, rubbish, or any other item whatsoever, except for approved
waste.
(Ord. 7 of 2017, passed 7-10-2017) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.11 COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL FEE.
   (A)   Collection and disposal charge. For the use of garbage, refuse, and
sanitary collection and disposal services to be rendered and provided, rates
and charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or dwelling unit that is, or will be, provided such services as set
forth herein. The billing rate and charge approved hereby shall commence as to
the owners of each and every lot, parcel of real estate, or dwelling unit, with
the billing to such owners beginning on April 1, 2024, and thereafter,
consistent with the terms and provisions set forth herein. For purposes of this
section, the owner shall be identified as the holder of fee simple title
interest in and to a lot or a parcel of real property upon which dwelling of
dwelling units are situated.
      (1)   The owner of a commercial lot or parcel of real estate shall be
allowed two toters and the owner of residential and apartment complex property
shall be allowed one toter per home or apartment, and shall pay a collection
fee of $10.75 per toter for each dwelling or dwelling unit to which weekly
curbside garbage, refuse and sanitary collection and disposal service is
provided.
      (2)   Collection and disposal “opt out” charge. Any commercial or
business customer who currently receives two toters for their business, may
submit a written request to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, to remove one toter from
their business account, and receive a corresponding reduction for the one toter
removed. The commercial or business owners shall only be charged for the one
toter that remains.
   (B)   For the purposes of collected fees above, owners are liable for
payment as required herein. The collection fee shall be billed with the water
utility billing for the town on a monthly basis and shall be paid by no later
than the fifteenth day of each month. In the event such billing is not paid on
or before the fifteenth day of the month, then a 10% penalty shall be imposed.
For purposes of computing time, and particularly for assessment of the 10%
penalty, the fifteenth day of each month is the last day in which payment of
billing without imposition of the 10% penalty may be made. After the fifteenth
day of each month, the 10% penalty on each such billing shall be assessed and
collected. In the event of necessity of pursuit of delinquent or late fees in a
civil action, reasonable attorney's fees and/or court costs may be imposed.
   (C)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall cause the monthly charges collected
pursuant to this section, and any penalties and collection costs collected
resulting from delinquent payments, to be paid into a segregated fund. The fund
shall be separated from the balance of the revenues of the general fund and
town utility funds, and to be used solely for the purpose of paying the town's
trash collection cost.
   (D)   The rates approved by this section shall be in full force and
effective for all bills due after March 31, 2024, and thereafter as detailed
above.
(Ord. 11 of 2021, passed 11-8-2021; Am. Ord. 2 of 2024, passed 2-12-2024; Am.
Ord. 11 of 2024, passed 6-10-2024)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates this chapter or permits any other person to
commit a violation of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of $50.
   (B)   Any owner or occupier of a premises who fails to maintain the property
in accordance with this chapter shall be subject to a fine of $50.
(Ord. 5 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
CHAPTER 52: ELECTRICITY
Section
   
52.01   Rates and charges
   
52.02   Terms of payment
   
52.03   Non-payment of bills
   
52.04   Disconnection of charges
   
52.05   Interconnection standards
Cross-reference:
   Meter deposits, see §
50.09
   Utility Complex, rent and usage of, see §
35.09
§ 52.01 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The rate for monthly electric usage by a residential service class
(Rate R) user shall be:
 
Residential Service - Rate “R”  Existing Rate Rate Effective with Passage
Customer charge (per monthly bill):               
Urban                               $10.00        $10.00
Rural                               $15.00        $15.00
Energy rate (per kWh)               $0.10862      $0.10714
 
   (B)   The rate for monthly electric usage by a commercial service class
(Rate C) user shall be:
 
Commercial Service - Rate “C”   Existing Rate Rate Effective with Passage
Customer charge (per monthly bill):               
Single-phase                        $15.00        $15.00
Three-phase                         $25.00        $25.00
Energy rate (per kWh)               $0.11420      $0.11265
 
   (C)   The rate for monthly electric usage by a commercial power service
class (Rate CP) user shall be:
 
Commercial Power Service - Rate “CPExisting Rate Rate Effective with Passage
Customer charge (per monthly bill):  $45.00        $45.00
Demand charge (per kWh)              $8.00         $8.00
Transformer owner discount (per kW)  ($0.38)       ($0.38)
Energy rate (per kWh)                $0.06610      $0.06520
 
   (D)   The rate for monthly electric usage by a power service class (Rate P)
user shall be:
 
Power Service - Rate “P”         Existing Rate Rate Effective with Passage
Customer charge (per monthly bill):  $75.00        $75.00
Demand charge (per kVA)              $10.00        $10.00
Transformer owner discount (per kVA) ($0.38)       ($0.38)
Energy rate (per kWh)                $0.05900      $0.05820
 
   (E)   The rate for monthly electric usage by a large power service class
(Rate LP) user shall be:
 
Power Service - Rate “LP”        Existing Rate Rate Effective with Passage
Customer charge (per monthly bill):  $350.00       $350.00
Demand charge (per kVA)              $13.50        $13.50
Transformer owner discount (per kVA) ($0.38)       ($0.38)
Energy rate (per kWh)                $0.05840      $0.05761
 
   (F)   The rate for monthly electric usage by a municipal service class (Rate
M) user shall be:
 
Municipal Service - Rate “M”    Existing Rate Rate Effective with Passage
Customer charge (per monthly bill):
Single-phase                        $15.00        $15.00
Three-phase                         $25.00        $25.00
Energy rate (per kWh)               $0.11420      $0.11265
 
   (G)   The rate for monthly electric usage for security and street lighting
shall be in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Security and Street Lighting                  Existing Rate Rate Effective with
                                                            Passage
Monthly charge (per fixture):                               $10.35
   175 watt mercury vapor                                $14.85
   250 watt mercury vapor                  $6.90         $20.10
   400 watt mercury vapor                  $9.90         $8.85
   70 watt high pressure sodium            $13.40        $9.68
   100 watt high pressure sodium           $5.90         $10.50
   150 watt high pressure sodium           $6.45         $17.25
   250 watt high pressure sodium           $7.00         $21.36
   400 watt high pressure sodium           $11.50        $42.15
   1,000 watt high pressure sodium         $14.25        $10.28
   300 watt incandescent                   $28.10        $10.50
   LED 150-watt equivalent - 8,000 lumens  $6.85         $17.50
   LED 250-watt equivalent - 13,000 lumens $3.50         $28.00
   LED 400-watt equivalent - 21,000 lumens $3.50         $7.00
   LED security light 7,000 lumens or less $5.50         $500.00
   Bare, 30-foot pole - installed                        $3.50
   65 watt LED                                           $5.50
   142 watt LED
Additional charge for lamp with pole          $3.00         $3.00
 
   (E)   Miscellaneous charges.
      (1)   For temporary charge, there shall be a charge of $100 when no more
than a single span service drop and meter are required.
      (2)   Service connection charge.
 
200 AMP overhead meter    $750
200 AMP underground meter $750
 
(Am. Ord. 5, 1998, passed 6-8-1998; Am. Ord. 1, 2003, passed 1-13-2003; Am.
Ord. 11 of 2008, passed 8-11-2008; Am. Ord. 12 of 2014, passed 9-8-2014; Am.
Ord. 3 of 2022, passed 5-9-2022; Am. Ord. 5 of 2022, passed 6-13-2022; Am. Ord.
13 of 2022, passed 11-14-2022)
§ 52.02 TERMS OF PAYMENT.
   All bills not paid before the due date as stated on such bills shall be
subject to the collection or deferred payment charge of 10% of that part of the
delinquent amount which does not exceed $3 plus 3% of any delinquent amount in
excess of $3.
(Ord. 1, 2003, passed 1-13-2003; Am. Ord. 11 of 2008, passed 8-11-2008; Am.
Ord. 12 of 2014, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 52.03 NON-PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   Whenever the service is disconnected for non-payment of the bill, or
whenever, for any reason beyond the control of the utility, a reconnection of
service is required by any customer more often than once in a 12-month period,
a charge of $25 shall be assessed.
(Ord. 1, 2003, passed 1-13-2003; Am. Ord. 11 of 2008, passed 8-11-2008; Am.
Ord. 12 of 2014, passed 9-8-2014)
§ 52.04 DISCONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   Connection and disconnection requirements.
      (1)   Disconnection. A current user of the utilities may request from the
town, in writing, a temporary disconnection from the applicable utility system
by means of a petition. The petition shall include:
         (a)   The reason for the disconnection;
         (b)   The duration of the desired disconnection; and
         (c)   Funds in the amount of $25 for the requested disconnection.
      (2)   The town reserves the right, in its sole and absolute discretion,
to grant or deny said petition. Should the town deny such request, the
Petitioner shall have their petition funds returned.
      (3)   Reconnection. At the expiration of the disconnection period listed
in the petition, user will be responsible for contacting the town to reconnect
to the applicable system. A user who had previously disconnected from the
applicable utility system under division (A)(1) of this section, who desires to
reconnect to said system before the expiration of the disconnect period listed
in the Petition, may request a reconnection at any time prior to such
expiration. User will be responsible for the $25 reconnection fee, whether
requested during the disconnection period, or at the expiration of the period
listed in the petition.
      (4)   Reasonableness of fee. In accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-3-8, the
required $25 fees are a reasonable calculation of the required maintenance,
repair and operating expenses associated with the disconnection and
reconnection from the utilities.
(Ord. 3 of 2016, passed 3-14-2016)
§ 52.05 INTERCONNECTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   A customer desiring to interconnect renewable generation facilities
with the utility’s grid for the purpose of offsetting the customer’s electric
load shall complete an interconnection application and submit the application
to the utility for review. After receipt of the application, the utility shall
conduct such further inspection of the renewable generation facilities as the
utility deems necessary and approve or deny the application. If the application
is denied, the utility shall provide a written response to the customer
explaining why the application was denied. The utility is hereby authorized to
charge a reasonable application fee to offset costs involved with reviewing the
application, inspecting the renewable generation facilities, and otherwise
ensuring compliance with this section.
   (B)   If the interconnection application is approved, then the customer
agrees that no changes shall be made to the configuration of the renewable
generation facilities, as that configuration is described in the application,
and no relay or other control or protection settings specified in the
application shall be set, reset, adjusted or tampered with, except to the
extent necessary to verify that the renewable generation facilities comply with
the utility’s approved settings.
   (C)   In addition to such other requirements as the utility deems necessary,
any renewable generation facility allowed to interconnect to the utility’s grid
must comply with: (a) the National Electrical Code and the National Electrical
Safety Code, as each may be revised from time to time; (b) the utility’s rules
and regulations and the utility’s General Terms and Conditions for Electric
Service, each as contained in the utility’s Electric Tariff and each as may be
revised from time to time; and (c) all other applicable local, state, and
federal codes and laws, as the same may be in effect from time to time.
   (D)   For any approved renewable generation facilities interconnected to the
utility’s grid, the customer shall install, operate, and maintain, at the
customer’s sole cost and expense, the renewable generation facilities in
accordance with the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
applicable Standard for Interconnecting Distributed Resources with Electric
Power Systems, as it may be amended from time to time. The customer shall be
responsible for protecting, at the customer’s sole cost and expense, the
renewable generation facilities from any condition or disturbance on the
utility’s electric system, including, but not limited to, voltage sags or
swells, system faults, outages, loss of a single phase of supply, equipment
failures, and lightning or switching surges.
   (E)   The customer shall operate any interconnected renewable generation
facilities in such a manner as not to cause undue fluctuations in voltage,
intermittent load characteristics or otherwise interfere with the operation of
the utility’s electric system. At all times when the renewable generation
facilities are being operated in parallel with the utility’s electric system,
the customer shall operate the renewable generation facilities in a manner that
no disturbance will be produced to the service rendered by the utility to any
of its other customers or to any electric system interconnected with the
utility’s electric system. The customer’s control equipment for the renewable
generation facilities shall immediately, completely, and automatically
disconnect and isolate the renewable generation facilities from the utility’s
electric system in the event of a fault on the utility’s electric system, a
fault on the customer’s renewable generation facilities, or loss of a source or
sources on the utility’s electric system. The automatic disconnecting device
included in such control equipment shall not be capable of reclosing until
after service is restored on the utility’s electric system. Additionally, if
the fault is with the customer’s renewable generation facilities, such
automatic disconnecting device shall not be reclosed until after the fault is
isolated from the customer’s renewable generation facilities.
   (F)   Upon reasonable advance notice to the customer, the utility shall have
access to any interconnected renewable generation facilities to perform on-site
inspections to verify that the installation and operation of the renewable
generation facilities comply with the requirements of this section and to
verify the proper installation and continuing safe operation of the renewable
generation facilities. The utility shall also have at all times immediate
access to breakers or any other equipment that will isolate the renewable
generation facilities from the utility’s electric system. The utility shall not
be responsible for any costs the customer may incur as a result of such
inspection(s). The utility shall have the right and authority to isolate
approved interconnected renewable generation facilities at the utility’s sole
discretion if the utility believes that: (a) continued interconnection and
parallel operation of the renewable generation facilities with the utility’s
electric system creates or contributes (or will create or contribute) to a
system emergency on either the utility’s or the customer’s electric facilities;
(b) the renewable generation facilities are not in compliance with the
requirements of this section; or (c) the renewable generation facilities
interfere with the operation of the utility’s electric system. In nonemergency
situations, the utility shall give the customer reasonable notice prior to
isolating the renewable generation facilities.
   (G)   Customer shall procure and keep in force during all periods of
parallel operation of the renewable generation facilities with the utility’s
electric system, homeowners, commercial, or other insurance to protect the
interests of the utility as a named insured, with insurance carriers acceptable
to the utility, and in amounts not less than those reasonably determined by the
utility to be necessary taking into consideration the nameplate capacity,
configuration and type of the renewable generation facilities. The customer
shall indemnify and hold harmless the utility, the town, its employees,
representatives, agents and subcontractors from and against all claims,
liability, damages and expenses, including attorney’s fees, based on any injury
to any person, including the loss of life, or damage to any property, including
the loss of use thereof, arising out of, resulting from, or connected with, or
that may be alleged to have arisen out of, resulted from, or connected with, an
act or omission by the customer, its employees, agents, representatives,
successors or assigns in the construction, ownership, operation or maintenance
of the customer’s renewable generation facilities. If the utility is required
to bring an action to enforce its rights under this division, either as a
separate action or in connection with another action, and said rights are
upheld, the customer shall reimburse the utility for all expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred in connection with such action.
   (H)   If a customer owning or leasing a renewable generation facility
produces more energy from such facility than the customer’s electric load at
that meter, then the excess energy shall be purchased from the customer by IMPA
pursuant to the terms of a separate power purchase agreement between the
customer and IMPA. The utility shall own any meter used to measure output of
energy from the customer’s renewable generation facility.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to connect or maintain
the connection of a renewable generating facility to the utility’s grid without
obtaining the utility’s approval of an interconnection application. Any person
or entity found to be in violation of this section shall be fined not less than
$500, nor more than $2,500 for each such violation, plus costs. In addition to
the foregoing fines and at the utility’s sole discretion, property where a
renewable generating facility is unlawfully connected to the utility’s grid may
be disconnected from the utility’s grid until an interconnection application is
approved. Every day that a violation of this section occurs shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 5 of 2023, passed 3-13-2023)
CHAPTER 53: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Rates and charges
   
53.02   Restriction of residential groundwater usage
   
53.03   Opening of fire hydrants
   
53.04   Discontinuance of water service
   
53.05   Adjustments to water and sewer bills due to undetected water leaks
Cross-Connection Control
   
53.15   Definitions
   
53.16   Cross-connection prohibited
   
53.17   Installment requirements
   
53.18   Inspection
   
53.19   Fines
 
   
53.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Meter deposits, see §
50.09
   Utility Complex, rent and usage of, see §
35.09
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Inside corporate town boundaries. The rate for monthly
consumption per 1,000 gallons of water usage is in accordance with the
following chart:
 
Inside Corporate Town Boundaries
(1) First 5,000 gallons $7.44
(2) Next 10,000 gallons 6.21
(3) Next 20,000 gallons 5.00
(4) Next 40,000 gallons 3.77
(5) Over 75,000 gallons 2.46
 
      (2)   Outside corporate town boundaries. Outside corporate town
boundaries rates and charges are approximately 14.9% higher than the rates and
charges for customers inside the corporate town boundaries.
 
Outside Corporate Town Boundaries
(1) First 5,000 gallons $8.55
(2) Next 10,000 gallons 7.14
(3) Next 20,000 gallons 5.74
(4) Next 40,000 gallons 4.32
(5) Over 75,000 gallons 2.82
 
   (B)   The minimum monthly rate for meter size is in accordance with the
following chart:
      (1)   Inside corporate town boundaries.
Inside Corporate Town Boundaries
Meter Size Monthly Minimum Charge
Inside Corporate Town Boundaries
Meter Size   Monthly Minimum Charge
5/8” to 3/4$18.87
1”         $46.88
1 1/4”     $76.67
1 1/2”     $102.26
2”         $187.26
3”         $424.69
4”         $765.17
6”         $1,700.46
 
      (2)   Outside corporate town boundaries. Outside corporate town
boundaries rates and charges are approximately 14.9% higher than the rates and
charges for customers inside the corporate town boundaries.)
Outside Corporate Town Boundaries
Meter Size Monthly Minimum Charge
Outside Corporate Town Boundaries
Meter Size   Monthly Minimum Charge
5/8” to 3/4$21.68
1”         $53.90
1 1/4”     $88.16
1 1/2”     $117.59
2”         $215.34
3”         $488.39
4”         $879.94
6”         $1,955.52
 
   (C)   The annual fire protection service hydrant rental rate is hereby
amended in accordance with the following chart:
      (1)   Inside corporate town boundaries.
 
Inside Corporate Town Boundaries
Private - per hydrant, per annum $773.45
 
      (2)   Outside corporate town boundaries. Outside corporate town
boundaries rates and charges are approximately 14.9% higher than the rates and
charges for customers inside the corporate town boundaries.
 
Outside Corporate Town Boundaries
Private - per hydrant, per annum $889.45
 
      (3)   Public hydrant surcharge.
Public Hydrant Surcharge
Size of Meter Charge per Month
Public Hydrant Surcharge
Size of Meter                       Charge per Month
Single family residential structure $7.25
5/8” to 3/4”                    7.25
1”                                18.13
1 1/2”                            36.24
2”                                57.99
3”                                108.73
4”                                181.21
6”                                362.43
 
   (D)   The annual sprinkler connection rate is in accordance with the
following chart:
      (1)   Inside corporate town boundaries.
 
Inside Corporate Town Boundaries
Sprinkler Connection Size Annual Rate
2-inch                    $190.75
4-inch                    818.60
6-inch                    1,721.50
8-inch                    3,028.75
10-inch                   4,740.05
 
      (2)   Outside corporate town boundaries. Outside corporate town
boundaries rates and charges are approximately 14.9% higher than the rates and
charges for customers inside the corporate town boundaries.
 
Outside Corporate Town Boundaries
Sprinkler Connection Size Annual Rate
2-inch                    $219.35
4-inch                    941.35
6-inch                    1,979.70
8-inch                    3,483.05
10-inch                   5,451.05
 
   (E)   The connection fee for a 3/4-inch water tap will be $700. For a 1-inch
and larger water tap, the connection fee will be based on the actual time and
materials required to make the tap.
   (F)   The bulk rate for consumption for 1,000 gallons of water usage will be
$20.
   (G)   The following fees shall be charged for backflow testing, based on and
coinciding with the corresponding device size/types:
Backflow Testing Charges
Device Size/Type Cost
Backflow Testing Charges
Device Size/Type   Cost
¾" AVP, PVB or SVB$45
1" AVP, PVB or SVB $45
¾" DC or RP       $50
1" DC or RP        $50
1.5" DC or RP      $60
2" DC or RP        $65
2.5" DC or RP      $65
3" DC or RP        $70
4" DC or RP        $75
 
(Ord. 9, 1997, passed 7-14-1997; Am. Ord. 6, 2002, passed 7-8-2002; Am. Ord. 7,
2003, passed 9-2-2003; Am. Ord. 2 of 2010, passed 7-12-2010; Am. Ord. 1 of
2013, passed 2-11-2013; Am. Ord. 6 of 2014, passed 6-9-2014; Am. Ord. 14 of
2014, passed 10-13-2014; Am. Ord. 15 of 2014, passed 10-13-2014; Am. Ord. 13 of
2017, passed 12-11-2017; Am. Ord. 3 of 2018, passed 6-11-2018; Am. Ord. 20 of
2021, passed 11-8-2021; Am. Ord. 3 of 2022, passed 5-9-2022; Am. Ord. 5 of
2022, passed 6-13-2022)
§ 53.02 RESTRICTION OF RESIDENTIAL GROUNDWATER USAGE.
   (A)   Private wells are not permitted and customers are required to connect
to the city water utility.
   (B)   Any existing well must be disconnected from the system under the
house; disconnection of the well will be done at the owner’s expense and must
be inspected to the satisfaction of the utility Superintendent.
   (C)   Cross connections between the utility system and any other source of
water supply is absolutely prohibited. When the utility furnishes water service
to any firm, corporation, person, or persons using or being connected to
another source of water supply, the utility will require that the rules of the
State Board of Health be followed.
   (D)   Any use of private wells in conflict with this section shall
constitute a violation of this section and shall constitute up to a $2,500
fine, with each day constituting a separate violation and fine of up to $2,500.
   (E)   The city may require testing of private wells at any time at the
expense of the customer.
   (F)   This section and the restrictions contained herein are limited to the
area enclosed by the following boundary lines:
      (1)   Northern boundary line: Roberts Ditch.
      (2)   Eastern boundary line: Highway 35.
      (3)   Southern boundary line: Highway 14.
      (4)   Western boundary line: Town of Winamac’s corporate boundary.
   (G)   The town shall provide written notice to the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management at least 60 days before the amendment or repeal of
this section and no later than 30 days after the passage, amendment or repeal
of this section. Written notice shall be sent to the following address:
         IDEM, Office of Land Quality
         Remediation Services Branch
         Attn: Branch Chief
         IGCN Suite 1101
         100 N. Senate Avenue
         Indianapolis, IN 46204-2251
(Ord. 6 of 2007, passed 9-10-2007; Am. Ord. 19 of 2012, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 53.03 OPENING OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Violation. Whoever injures, destroys or permits to be injured or
destroyed any meter, pipe, hydrant, curb box, shut-off valve at any curb box,
any other kind of valve or other apparatus belonging to the Winamac Municipal
Water Works Utility or whoever prevents a water meter from duly registering the
quantity of water supplied or in any way interferes with its proper action or
just registration, or whoever, without the consent of Winamac Municipal Water
Works Utility by its proper officers, diverts any water from any pipe line or
fire hydrant of Winamac Municipal Water Works Utility or otherwise uses or
causes to be used, without the consent of Winamac Municipal Water Works
Utility, any water distributed by Winamac Water Works Utility, or whoever
attempts any of the above, shall be guilty of a violation.
   (B)   Exceptions. The following entities are exempt from this section:
      (1)   Employees of the town while engaged in work activities for the
town.
      (2)   Members of the Winamac Volunteer Fire Department while engaged in
firefighting activities, training activities, maintenance of firefighting
equipment, or otherwise engaged in public safety activities.
      (3)   Members of other fire departments while assisting the Winamac
Volunteer Fire Department in any of its activities.
(Ord. 13 of 2012, passed 11-12-2012) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   Except for the following cases arising from theft, vandalism, or
damage the utility shall give at least seven days’ prior written notice, either
mailed to such customer at his or her address as shown upon the utility’s
records or personally delivered to him or her where a person is on the
premises, advising the customer of the reason for the proposed discontinuance
of service, and stating that service shall be discontinued if the reason
continues to be uncorrected at the conclusion of seven days; and further
providing that the customer may request an administrative hearing to be held
prior to discontinuance of service. The administrative hearing shall be held
before the Winamac Town Manager or his or her designee. At the conclusion of
the administrative hearing, the Town Manager or his or her designee shall have
the authority, based on good cause, to affirm, modify, or reverse the order to
discontinue service. The Town Manager or his or her designee shall provide the
decision of the hearing in writing.
   (B)   In cases provided for in theft, vandalism, or damage, the utility may
discontinue service without notice.
(Ord. 13 of 2013, passed 8-12-2013)
§ 53.05 ADJUSTMENT TO WATER AND SEWER BILLS DUE TO UNDETECTED WATER LEAKS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide a basis for town
utilities to adjust high bills caused by underground leaks in water lines or
equipment on users' property that users could not reasonably have known with
normal diligence, as approved by I.C. 8-1.5-3.5-3, and allowed pursuant to I.C.
36-9-23-25, and to relieve possible financial hardship on residents and
businesses caused by no fault of their own.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      UNUSUALLY LARGE BILL. A residential water bill that reflects monthly
water usage, in whatever units measured, that is at least 200% of the
customer's average monthly usage over the preceding 12 months, or of the
previous full billing period, if no history exists.
      UTILITY. Either the water or sewer/wastewater utility, owned and operated
by the town.
   (C)   Threshold considerations. Leak adjustments to water and sewer/
wastewater bills will be considered when all of the following threshold
conditions have been met:
      (1)   Water use volume is 200% of previous 12 months average usage
history, or the previous full billing period, if no history exists.
      (2)   A town utility employee verifies the leak, and the customer
requesting the adjustment provides written documentation in the form of a bill
with a detailed statement of repairs from a licensed plumber, or a signed
affidavit by the costumer requesting the adjustment that states the leak has
been repaired.
      (3)   The customer requesting the adjustment must submit a Request for
Water/Sewer Leak Adjustment Form in writing, no later than 30 days after the
repair work has been performed.
      (4)   The account in question must not be delinquent, excepting therefrom
the month in which the leak has caused the delinquency or unusually high bill.
      (5)   The customer requesting the adjustment has not received an
adjustment within the last 12 months.
      (6)   Car washes do not receive a discount on monthly sewer charges.
      (7)   The Town Council shall disallow requests for adjustment when the
water leak is due to lack of proper maintenance or negligence by the customer
requesting the adjustment, in the sole and absolute discretion of the Town
Council.
   (D)   Water leak adjustments. The Town Council may adjust a water and sewer
bill resulting from a leak, provided those criteria as set forth in division
(C) above have been followed, as follows:
      (1)   If water leaking does not go directly into the town's sewer system,
the Town Council may reduce the water and sewer/wastewater bill by one-third
and bill for the remaining gallons.
      (2)   If water leaking does enter the town's sewer system, the water
flowing through the meter shall be reduced by one-third and billed. The sewer/
wastewater bill shall be based upon the adjusted water billing.
   (E)   Leak adjustments for loss to water and sewer bills.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide a basis for town
utilities to adjust high bills caused by underground leaks in water lines or
equipment on users' property that users could not reasonably have known with
normal diligence, as approved by I.C. 8-1.5-3.5-3, and allowed pursuant to I.C.
36-9-23-25, and to relieve possible financial hardship on residents and
businesses caused by no fault of their own.
      (2)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply throughout this
section.
         UNUSUALLY LARGE BILL. A residential water bill that reflects monthly
water usage, in whatever units measured, that is at least 200% of the
customer's average monthly usage over the preceding 12 months, or of the
previous full billing period, if no history exists.
         UTILITY. Either the water or sewer/wastewater utility, owned and
operated by the Town of Winamac.
      (3)   Threshold considerations. Leak adjustments to water and sewer/
wastewater bills will be considered when all of the following threshold
conditions have been met:
         (a)   Water use volume is 200% of previous 12 months average usage
history, or the previous full billing period, if no history exists.
         (b)   A town utility employee verifies the leak, and the customer
requesting the adjustment provides written documentation in the form of a bill
with a detailed statement of repairs from a licensed plumber, or a signed
affidavit by the costumer requesting the adjustment that states the leak has
been repaired.
         (c)   The customer requesting the adjustment must submit a "Request
for Water/Sewer Leak Adjustment Form" in writing, no later than 30 days after
the repair work has been performed.
         (d)   The account in question must not be delinquent, excepting
therefrom the month in which the leak has caused the delinquency or unusually
high bill.
         (e)   The customer requesting the adjustment has not received an
adjustment within the last 12 months.
         (f)   Car washes do not receive a discount on monthly sewer charges.
         (g)   The Town Council shall disallow requests for adjustment when the
water leak is due to lack of proper maintenance or negligence by the customer
requesting the adjustment, in the sole and absolute discretion of the Town
Council.
      (4)   Water leak adjustments. The Town Council may adjust a water and
sewer bill resulting from a leak, provided those criteria as set forth in
division (E)(3) have been followed, as follows:
         (a)   If water leaking does not go directly into the town's sewer
system, the Town Council may reduce the water and sewer/wastewater bill by one-
third and bill for the remaining gallons.
         (b)   If water leaking does enter the town's sewer system, the water
flowing through the meter shall be reduced by one-third and billed. The sewer/
wastewater bill shall be based upon the adjusted water billing.
      (5)   Council authorization. In a situation where an adjustment is
requested before a Town Council meeting is held, the Town Council authorizes
the Town Manager to make the appropriate water/wastewater adjustment, in his
sole and absolute discretion, by using the previous month's water/wastewater
usage amount.
(Ord. 10 of 2018, passed 11-12-2018; Am. Ord. 2 of 2021, passed 3-8-2021)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 53.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP. An unobstructed vertical distance through an atmosphere between the
discharge end of a pipeline supplied from a public water, supply and the
overflow rim of the receiving portion of the customer's water system.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of contaminant into the public water supply distribution
system from a source other that the public water supply.
   BOOSTER PUMP. A pump installed on a pipeline to increase water pressure and
flow.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical arrangement, including cross-connection
control devices not in working order or not installed properly, whereby a
public water supply distribution system is directly connected, either
continuously or intermittently with any secondary source of supply, sewer,
drain, conduit, pool, piping, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture or other
device which contains, or may contain, and is capable of imparting to the
public water supply, contaminants, contaminated water, sewage or other waste or
liquid of unknown of unsafe quality.
   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL DEVICES. Any device or assembly, approved by the
town, Water Department, for construction on, or installation in water supply
piping which is capable of preventing contaminants from entering the public
water supply distribution system.
   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL DEVICE TESTER. A person who has successfully
completed  training in testing and inspection of cross connection control
devices at an agency or school acceptable to the Commissioner (IDEM) who has
registered with the Commissioner (IDEM) and who has not been notified by the
Commissioner (IDEM) or the town that his work is unacceptable under this
subchapter.
   CROSS-CONNECTION HAZARD. Any customer's facility which, because of the
nature and extent of activities on the premises or the materials used in
connection with the activities or stored on the premises, would present an
immediate or potential danger or health hazard to customers of the public water
supply should backflow occur.
   CUSTOMER. Any person who receives water from a public water supply.
   CUSTOMER SERVICE LINE. The pipeline from the public water supply to the
first tap, fixture, receptacle or other point of customer water use; or the
first secondary source of supply or pipeline branch in a building.
   CUSTOMER WATER SYSTEM. All piping, fixtures and appurtenances including
secondary sources of supply used by a customer to convey water on his premises.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. A device or assembly composed of two tightly
closing shut-off valves surrounding two independently acting spring loaded
check valves, with four test cock, one up stream of the four valves and one
between each of the check and shut-off valves.
   DOWN STREAM. The direction of flow when only the public water supply is
supplying water through the customer water system and backflow is not
occurring.
   PRESSURE TYPE VACUUM BREAKER. A chamber fitted with a spring-loaded air
inlet for relieving a vacuum or partial vacuum in a pipeline.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. Any wells, reservoirs, lakes, rivers, source of supply,
pumps, mains, pipes, facilities and structures through which water is obtained,
treated as may be required, and supplied through which water is obtained,
treated as my be required, and supplied through a water distribution system to
at least 100 persons per day for drinking, domestic or other purposes,
including state-owned facilities.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device composed of two
tightly closing shut-off valves surrounding two independently acting spring
loaded pressure reducing check valves which in return surround an automatic
pressure differential relief valve and four test cocks, one upstream of the
five valves and one between each of the four test cocks, one upstream of the
five valves and one between each of the four check and shut-off valves. The
check valves effectively divide  the structure into three chambers; pressure is
reduced in each downstream chamber allowing the pressure differential relief
valve to vent the center chamber to atmosphere should either or both check
valves malfunction.
   SECONDARY SOURCE OF SUPPLY. Any well, spring, cistern, lake, stream or other
water source, intake structure, pumps, piping, treatment units, tanks and
appurtenances, used either continuously or intermittently, to supply water
other than that from the public water supply to the customer, including tanks
used to store water to be used only for firefighting, even though the water
contained therein is supplied from the public water supply.
   SUPPLIER OF WATER. Any person who owns and/or operates a public water
supply.
   UPSTREAM. The direction of flow opposite to downstream.
(Ord. 10 of 2015, passed 10-12-2015)
§ 53.16 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No customer shall cause or allow the construction or maintenance of a
cross-connection. Piping installed to by-pass a cross connection control device
constitutes a cross-connection control device.
   (B)   No customer shall cause or allow the installation or maintenance of a
booster pump in a customer water system unless a control device is installed to
prevent operation of the booster pump when pressure to pump suction drops below
20 pounds per square inch, gauge.
   (C)   Customers constructing a new facility which is designated a cross-
connection hazard as defined in IAC 8-10-4(c) or making modifications to the
customer service line or installing a higher capacity meter at an existing
facility which is designated a cross-connection hazard or change of use that
would be designated a cross-connection hazard by IAC 8-10-4(c), shall construct
an air gap or install a reduced pressure backflow preventer in accordance with
§
53.17, herein, on the customer service line to the facilities so designated.
      (1)   Existing buildings. All existing buildings which house a business
activity and are operated as such, will be required to comply with this
subchapter upon the occurrence of any one of the following events:
         (a)   New ownership of the building;
         (b)   Remodeling;
         (c)   Change of occupancy;
         (d)   Installation of a new service line or upgrade of service;
         (e)   Addition of machinery or chemicals; and
         (f)   If backflow occurs.
      (2)   All fire sprinkler systems must have an approved double check valve
assembly installed before the fire systems apparatus. Any system that uses
chemicals must install a reduced pressure backflow preventer, pursuant to Town
of Winamac Water Department specifications on file in the office of the Winamac
Water Utility.
   (D)   No secondary source of water supply can be connected to customer's
building with a water distribution system unless a backflow device is installed
on the service line.
   (E)   Customers shall construct an air gap or install a reduced pressure
principle backflow preventer or pressure type vacuum breaker in accordance with
§
53.17, herein, on the water line connecting the public water supply to any land
irrigation facility buried below ground which has a sprinkling outlet located
less than six inches above grade. All installations must comply with Town of
Winamac Water Department specifications.
(Ord. 10 of 2015, passed 10-12-2015)
§ 53.17 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The discharge pipe of an air gap shall terminate a minimum of two pipe
diameters of the discharge pipe or six inches, whichever is the lesser above
the maximum record flood level or above the flood level rim of the receiving
vessel, whichever is higher.
   (B)   Only those models of double check valve assemblies, reduced pressure
principle backflow preventers or pressure type vacuum breakers approved by the
Town of Winamac Water Department are acceptable.
   (C)   Reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be installed
horizontally, with no plug or additional piping affixed to the pressure
differential relief valve port, and with the pressure differential relief valve
port a minimum of 12 inches above floor level. Additionally, the device must be
installed at a location where any leakage from the pressure differential relief
port will be noticed, and that allows access to the device for maintenance and
testing from floor level, so that it will not subject the device to flooding,
excessive heat or freezing.
   (D)   All double check valve assemblies shall be installed horizontally at a
location that allows access to the device for maintenance and testing from
floor level and that will not subject the device to excessive heat or freezing.
   (E)   Pressure type vacuum breakers shall be installed as near as possible
to the irrigation facility, at a location that allows access to the device for
maintenance and testing form floor or ground level and that will not subject
the device to flooding, excessive heat or freezing. Additionally, the device
must be installed with its center line or datum point a minimum of 12 inches
above floor level; the highest downstream shut-off valve; and the highest
downstream overflow rim or discharge point.
(Ord. 10 of 2015, passed 10-12-2015)
§ 53.18 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The customer shall install and maintain in working order at all times
any cross-connection control device or booster pump control device or booster
pump control device required hereunder. All cross-connection control devices
must be tested in accordance with this subchapter.
   (B)   To ensure that each cross-connection control device required is in
working order, the customer shall have each device inspected or tested by a
cross-connection control device tester at the time of construction or
installation and at the following intervals in the following manner:
      (1)   Air gaps shall be inspected at intervals not exceeding on year to
ensure that they continue to meet the requirements.
      (2)   Reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be tested at
intervals not exceeding six months to ensure that both check valves are drip
tight under all pressure differentials and that the pressure differential
relief valve will maintain pressure in the center chamber at least two pounds
per square inch below that of the inlet chamber.
      (3)   Double check valve assemblies shall be tested at intervals not
exceeding one year to ensure that both check valves are drip tight under all
pressure differentials.
      (4)   Pressure type vacuum breakers shall be tested at intervals not to
exceed six months to ensure that the air inlet opens fully when water pressure
is at or below atmospheric pressure.
      (5)   The customer shall permit access to his premises by the inspector
and the supplier of water at reasonable times and upon presentation of
identification, for inspection of the customer's water system or testing of
cross-connection control devices installed in accordance with this subchapter.
      (6)   All cross-connection control device testers shall be registered
with the Indiana Environmental Management Board.
      (7)   The testers shall report to Town of Winamac Water Department on a
form, provided by the Town of Winamac Water Department the results of
inspections or test conducted pursuant to air gaps, reduced pressure principle,
backflow preventers, double check valve assemblies and pressure type vacuum
breakers. Reports shall be submitted to the Town of Winamac Water Department,
the customer (and IDEM if they request one) within 30 days of the inspection or
test.
(Ord. 10 of 2015, passed 10-12-2015)
§ 53.19 FINES.
   A violation of this subchapter shall be subject to fines set forth in the
town in the amount of $500 for each occurrence.
(Ord. 10 of 2015, passed 10-12-2015)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any person in violation
of any of the terms or provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalty provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person in violation of any of the terms or provisions of §
53.03 shall be fined in an amount of not less than $50 no more than $2,500.
Each day that such violation shall occur shall constitute a separate violation
for which the person shall be subject to a fine.
      (2)   Civil penalties for violation(s) of §
53.03 shall be payable through the Winamac Clerk- Treasurer’s office located at
120 W. Main Street, Winamac, IN 46996 within 30 days.
(Ord. 13 of 2012, passed 11-12-2012)
CHAPTER 54: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Compliance required
   
54.03   Damaging sewage works
   
54.04   Violations—general
   
54.05   Industrial pretreatment; violations; penalties
Use Regulations
   
54.15   Connection and use
   
54.16   Installation and connection
   
54.17   Discharge of water and waste
   
54.18   Pretreatment
   
54.19   Discharge of unpolluted water
   
54.20   Observation, sampling and measurement of waste
   
54.21   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
54.22   Unusual flows or wastes
   
54.23   Inspection, observation, measurement and the like
Administration and Enforcement
   
54.35   Enforcement; by-laws and regulations
   
54.36   Appeals process
   
54.37   Sewer lien procedure
Rates and Charges
   
54.50   Definitions
   
54.51   User charges; classes
   
54.52   Quantity of water; discharges
   
54.53   Billing
   
54.54   Study of sewer use and rates
   
54.55   Enforcement
Cross-reference:
   Adjustments to water and sewer bills due to undetected water leaks, see §
53.05
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of dissolved oxygen in
milligrams per liter required during stablization of the decomposable organic
matter by aerobic biochemical action under standard laboratory procedures for
five days at 20 degrees Celsius. The laboratory determinations of BOD shall be
made in accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods, therein and
conventionally referred to as BOD5.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
      (1)   SANITARY BUILDING DRAIN. A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
      (2)   STORM BUILDING DRAIN. A building drain which conveys stormwater or
other clearwater drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. A BUILDING SEWER is also called “house connection.”
      (1)   SANITARY BUILDING SEWER. A building sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
      (2)   STORM BUILDING SEWER. A building sewer which conveys stormwater or
other clearwater drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   CLEARWATER DISCHARGE. Uncontaminated cooling water.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works was designed to treat the pollutants, and in fact
does remove the pollutants to a substantial degree. The term “substantial
degree” is not subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates
removals in the order of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order
of 10% to 20% are not considered substantial. Examples of the additional
pollutants which may be considered compatible include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Total organic carbon;
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds; and
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds, fats, oils and greases of animal
or vegetable origin, except as prohibited where these materials would interfere
with the operation of the treatment works.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY (“CA”). The commissioner of the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council or any duly authorized officials acting in its
behalf.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all proposed revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of normal
domestic sewage.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the town.
   GARBAGE.  Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGER. A nondomestic discharger introducing pollutants into
the Winamac POTW, regardless of whether the discharger is within the
governmental jurisdiction of the permittee.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. An indirect discharger.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from
sanitary conveniences.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW.  The water discharge into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to roof leaders, cellar, yard
and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges, drains
from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections from storm
sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface run-off, street
wash waters or drainage. INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished from,
“infiltration.”
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town through its
Council to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and their
connection to the public sewer systems.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, does one of the following:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the Winamac POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, its sludge processes, or its selected sludge use or disposal
methods.
      (2)   Causes a violation of requirement of the Winamac POTW’s NPDES
permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
      (3)   Prevents the use of the Winamac POTW’s sewage sludge or its sludge
disposal method selected in compliance with the following statutory provisions,
regulations, or permits issued thereunder or more stringent state or local
regulations.
         (a)   Section 405 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1345).
         (b)   The Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. 6901), including:
            A.   Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); and
            B.   The rules contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA (42 U.S.C. 6941).
         (c)   The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401).
         (d)   The Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 2601).
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
      (1)   Wastewater or sewage having an average daily concentration as
follows:
         (a)   BOD not more than 200 mg/l; and
         (b)   SS not more than 200 mg/l.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewater from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the national pollutant discharge
elimination system for discharge of wastewater to the navigable waters of the
United States pursuant to Section 402 of P.L. 92-500 (33 USC 1342).
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. All costs, direct and indirect, necessary
to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport and treatment on a
continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform with
all related federal, state and local requirements. These costs include
replacement.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges and
other identifiable charges other than user charges, debt service charges and
excessive strength surcharges.
   OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer overflows,
into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or groundwater.
   PASS-THROUGH. A discharge proceeding through a POTW into waters of the state
in quantities or concentrations that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, are a cause of violation of any requirement
of the POTW’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
group or other entity.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard, imposed on an industrial
user, including applicable load limits.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. The state pretreatment standards located at 327 IAC
5-16 through 5-21 are hereby incorporated.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (“POTW”). The town’s sewage treatment and
collection facilities including the sewers within the rights-of-ways and
easements owned by the town, and the treatment facilities. It does not include
sewers on private property serving individual homes or industrial dischargers.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority
and will consist of the following increments:
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewater from individual point of the discharge.
      (2)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      (3)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at
which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which the works
were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, including
polluted cooling water. The most common types of sewage are:
      (1)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment. This shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water.
      (2)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment and processes to collect, transport
and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent and
accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER.  A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (“SIU”).
      (1)   Industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
under 327 IAC 5-18-10.
      (2)   An industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler blowdown
wastewater) to the POTW;
         (b)   Contributes a process waste stream that makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   Is designated as a significant industrial user by the control
authority on the basis that the industrial user has a reasonable potential to:
            1.   Adversely affect the POTW’s operation;
            2.   Violate a pretreatment standard; or
            3.   Violate a requirement of 327 IAC 5-19-3.
      (3)   The control authority may, on its own initiative or in response to
a petition received from an industrial user or the POTW and in accordance with
327 IAC 5-19-3(6), determine that an industrial user is not a SIGNIFICANT
INDUSTRIAL USER if it does not meet (2)(c) above.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than ten minutes more than three times the average 24 hours
concentration of flows during the normal operation and shall adversely affect
the collection system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis of “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater,” prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, ground water or unpolluted water
from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the town
or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering under standard laboratory procedure.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOWN. Winamac, Indiana, acting by and through the Town Council.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants,
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to Section 307(a) of P.L. 92-500 (33 USC
1317(a)).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quantity equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of the works, pursuant to Section 203(b)
of P.L. 92-500.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics and process or discharge similarities, i.e.,
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional and governmental in the user
charge system.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 55°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 16 of 2007, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 54.02 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   All provisions of this chapter and limits set herein shall comply with any
applicable state and/or federal requirements now, or projected to be, in
effect.
(Ord. 16 of 2007, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 54.03 DAMAGING SEWAGE WORKS.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment
which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating this
section shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. 16 of 2007, passed 12-10-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.04 VIOLATIONS—GENERAL.
   (A)   Any persons found to be violating this chapter, shall be subject to a
penalty not to exceed $50 per month, per billing account. This surcharge shall
be imposed beginning the month immediately following passage and adoption of
this chapter by the Town Council.
   (B)   There shall be a moratorium upon the requirement for payment of the
penalty by the persons for a period of six months from the time of enactment of
this chapter, as set forth. Further, any person who has, pursuant to this
section, consented to the inspection of their respective premises within 90
days of the date of adoption of this chapter, shall not be liable for payment
until the inspection has been accomplished and the person given the opportunity
to bring the premises into compliance within the time frame set out herein.
   (C)   Any person may avoid liability for payment of the surcharge
established, upon a showing that he or she is in compliance with all provisions
of this chapter, which showing shall consist of the following procedures and
conditions as to each building or appurtenance connected to the sanitary sewer.
      (1)   Each person shall, as to each building or appurtenance so connected
to the sanitary sewer, execute a grant of permission to the town, to come upon
the property and within the premises thereon, of the persons to inspect and/or
perform sewer tests as may be deemed necessary by the town to verify the
compliance hereinbefore referred to.
      (2)   The grant of permission, set forth herein, shall be deemed to
include periodic inspections and/or tests as may be determined to be necessary
by the town to maintain, ensure and monitor compliance with the provisions of
this chapter.
      (3)   The inspection shall be made upon reasonable notice of at least 48
hours. There shall be no fee charged for the inspection.
      (4)   If, upon the initial inspection contemplated to verify compliance,
a person is in fact not found to be in compliance, the person shall be given 14
days from the date of the inspection to so comply.
   (D)   In the event, a person is found to be in compliance as heretofore set
forth, and upon subsequent inspection is found not to be in compliance, the
person shall be liable for payment of an amount equal to the sum of the months
since adoption of this chapter, multiplied by the monthly penalty in effect
during the period as the case may be. The liability shall be reduced to 50% of
the amount if the person complies within a period of ten days after notice by
the town, of his or her noncompliance a second or subsequent time, then the
person shall be liable for a sum equal to $50, plus an amount equal to the sum
of the months since adoption of this chapter multiplied by the monthly penalty
in effect during the period as the case may be.
   (E)   The Town Council has determined that the measures heretofore set out
are a reasonable means of ensuring compliance with this chapter and are further
necessary to protect and ensure the health, safety and welfare of the citizens
and surrounding areas. Any person found to be violating any provision of this
chapter, except provisions noted, shall be served by the town with written
notices stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time
limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the
period of time stated in the notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (F)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the
town by reason of the violation.
(Ord. 16 of 2007, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 54.05 INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT; VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the town has the legal authority to:
   (A)   Develop and enforce specific limits on prohibited substances;
   (B)   Enter the premises of any industrial user to conduct inspections,
surveillance, record review, and/or monitoring, as necessary to determine
compliance with this chapter and, if applicable, any effective industrial
wastewater pretreatment permit;
   (C)   Accept or deny any new or increased discharges from any indirect
discharger;
   (D)   Immediately halt or prevent any discharge of pollutants to the POTW
which reasonably appears to present an imminent endangerment to the health or
welfare of the public, the environment, and/or which threatens to interfere
with the operation of the POTW;
   (E)   Require compliance with all applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements by indirect dischargers;
   (F)   Impose fees, if necessary, to offset the cost incurred by the
permittee for administering the pretreatment program requirements established
in Part III of NPDES Permit # IN0020516;
   (g)   Impose, as a maximum fine, at least $1,000 per day, per violation, in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.8(f)(1)(vi)(A) and impose maximum fines up to $2,500
per day, per violation for a first violation and up to $7,500 per violation per
day for subsequent violations in accordance with I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B).
(Ord. 16 of 2007, passed 12-10-2007)
USE REGULATIONS
§ 54.15 CONNECTION AND USE.
   (A)   The connection to and use of public and private sewers and drains, the
installation and connection of building sewers, and the discharge of waters and
wastes into the public sewer system of the town and providing for violations
thereof.
   (B)   All users shall be subject to the following:
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to
be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
      (2)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, stormwater, surface water, ground water,
roof run-off, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or
unpolluted industrial process water. The town shall require the removal of
unpolluted waters from any wastewater collection or treatment facility if the
removal is cost-effective and is in the best interest of all users of those
facilities.
      (3)   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, roof run-off, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use the sewers, however, without the specific
permission of the town.
      (4)   No new connection shall be made to any sanitary combined or storm
sewer unless there is capacity available in all downstream sewers, lift
stations, force mains and the sewage treatment plant, including capacity for
BOD and suspended solids.
      (5)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the
NPDES permit.
      (6)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct
or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
      (7)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
a public sanitary or combined sewer of the town is hereby required at his or
her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect the
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within 60 days after date of official notice to do
so, provided that the public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line.
(Ord. 16 of 2007, passed 12-10-2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.16 INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $50 shall be paid to the town at
the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction
and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground
portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours of the
receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Board of Health. No
permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than
20,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At the time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided, a direct connection shall be
made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks,
cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and
filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (G)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to the sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean
bank-run gravel or sand. No statement contained in this chapter shall be
construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by
a county health officer.
   (H)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk/Treasurer.
   (I)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case (division (I)(1)(a) or (b) above), the owner or his
or her agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the town.
The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or
other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the town. A permit
and inspection fees of $50 for a residential or commercial building sewer
permit and $100 for an industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the
Clerk/Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   (J)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify
the town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
   (K)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another or an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear of the building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
   (L)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (M)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. FD-5 shall apply.
   (N)   The building sewer (lateral) shall be brought to the building below
frost level. No sanitary sewage facilities shall be connected to this sewer
that are not at an elevation above the top of the casting of the nearest
sanitary manhole. Any facilities which are below such level must be connected
by means of a lift station or other pumping facilities. No person shall make
connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or
other sources of surface run-off or ground water to a building sewer or
building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public
sanitary sewer. Except connection to combined sewers as controlled hereby.
   (O)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. FD-5. All the connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installations.
   (P)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Inspector
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector or
his or her representative.
   (Q)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
   (R)   All extensions of sewers to new developments or unsewered areas of the
town shall be sanitary sewers. Construction of new combined sewers or
extensions of existing combined sewers are not permitted. All plans and
specifications for sewer extensions must have valid construction permits from
the State Department of Environmental Management before construction commences.
(Ord. 16 of 2007, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 54.17 DISCHARGE OF WATER AND WASTE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by integration with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works or interfere with any treatment
process; and/or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch, manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion
of the Superintendent that the wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream,
or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance.
In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to factors as the quantities of subject
wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewer, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The substances
prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150 degrees
Fahrenheit or 65 degrees Celsius;
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 degrees Fahrenheit and
150 degrees Fahrenheit or zero degrees Celsius and 65 degrees Celsius;
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded; (The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent.)
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron, pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to a degree that any material received in the composite
sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established by the town
for the materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction of the discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of the half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations or inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
the quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and/or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slug,” as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amendable to treatment only to the degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
      (11)   A pollutant from any source of nondomestic wastewaters that could
pass through or cause interference with the operation or performance of the
POTW.
      (12)   A pollutant that could create a fire or explosion hazard in the
POTW, including waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of less than 140
degrees Fahrenheit (sixty degrees Celsius) using the test methods in 40 CFR
261.21.
      (13)   Heat in an amount that could:
         (a)   Inhibit biological activity in the POTW and result in
interference or damage to the POTW; or
         (b)   Exceed 40 degrees Celsius or 104 degrees Fahrenheit at the POTW
treatment plant unless the commissioner, upon request of the POTW, approves
alternate temperature limits.
      (14)   Petroleum, oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin in an amount that could cause interference or pass through.
      (15)   A pollutant that could result in the presence of toxic gases,
vapors, or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker
health and safety problems.
      (16)   A trucked or hauled pollutant, except:
         (a)   With the permission of the POTW; and
         (b)   When introduced to the POTW at a discharge point designated by
the POTW.
   (C)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in this chapter, and which in the
judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Require new industries (or other large users) or industries (or
other large users) with significant increase in discharges to submit
information on wastewater quantities characteristics and obtain prior approval
for discharges;
      (2)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the town;
      (3)   Require pretreatment of wastes to within the limits of normal
sewage, as defined;
      (4)   Require control or flow equalization of such wastes so as to avoid
any “slug” loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment works;
or
      (5)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or loadings
discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of having
capacity for and treating the wastes.
   (D)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and the control
authority and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, articles and
law.
   (E)   Where preliminary treatment of flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (F)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with necessary meters and other appurtenances
in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of
the wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be both accessible and safely
located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
Agents of the town, the State Water Pollution Control Agencies and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing.
   (G)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods of the Examination of
Water and Wastewater,” published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole, except for applications of NPDES permits and
report thereof which shall be conducted in accordance with rules and
regulations adopted by the U.S. EPA (40 C.F.R. Part 136). In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards of life, limb and property. The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all
outfalls of a premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should
be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are
obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined
from periodic grab samples.
   (H)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern, at the rates as are compatible with the rate chapter.
(Ord. 16 of 2007, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 54.18 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Pretreatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries
prior to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the
rules and regulations adopted by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) (40 C.F.R. Part 403), and “Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures
for Analysis of Pollutants” (40 C.F.R. Part 136), in addition to any more
stringent requirements established by the town, and any subsequent state or
federal guidelines and rules and regulations.
   (B)   Pretreatment facilities.
      (1)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating
to the pretreatment or control facilities shall be submitted for approval of
the town and the State Department of Environmental Management and no
construction of the facilities shall be commenced until approval in writing, is
granted.
      (2)   Where facilities are provided, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the town to
determine that the facilities are being operated in conformance with applicable
federal, state and local laws and permits. The owner shall maintain operating
records and shall submit to the town a monthly summary report of the character
of the influent and effluent to show the performance of the treatment
facilities and for comparison against town monitoring records.
(Ord. 16 of 2007, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 54.19 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   (A)   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling condensing systems or
swimming pools shall be discharged to a storm sewer, to a combined sewer
approved by the town and state or natural outlet approved by the state. Where a
storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet is not available, the unpolluted
water may be discharged to a sanitary sewer pending written approval by the
town.
   (B)   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance herewith.
(Ord. 16 of 2007, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 54.20 OBSERVATION, SAMPLING AND MEASUREMENT OF WASTE.
   (A)   The town may require users of the treatment works, other than
residential users, to supply pertinent information of wastewater flows and
characteristics. The measurements, tests and analyses shall be made at the
users’ expense. If made by the town, an appropriate charge may be assessed to
the user at the option of the town.
   (B)   The strength of wastewater shall be determined, for periodic
establishment of charges provided for herein, from samples taken at the
aforementioned structure at any period of time and of the duration and in the
manner as the town may elect, or, at any place mutually agreed upon between the
user and the town.
   (C)   Appropriate charges for sampling and analysis may be assessed to the
user at the option of the town. The results of routine sampling and analysis by
the user may also be used for determination of charges after verification by
the town.
(Ord. 16 of 2007, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 54.21 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the town, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand
and other harmful ingredients, except that the interceptors or traps will not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors or
traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by the town and shall be located
so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. They
shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and
extreme changes in temperature and shall be of substantial construction, be
gas-tight, water-tight and equipped with easily removable covers. Where
installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be maintained
by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient operation at all
times.
(Ord. 16 of 2007, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 54.22 UNUSUAL FLOWS OR WASTES.
   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the town of any
unusual flows or wastes that are discharged accidentally or otherwise to the
sewer system.
(Ord. 16 of 2007, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 54.23 INSPECTION, OBSERVATION, MEASUREMENT AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   (1)   The Superintendent, inspector and other duly authorized
employees of the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of and in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The Superintendent or his or her representative shall have the
authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil,
refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or
facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the town shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the town
employees and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as may be caused by negligence or
failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in this chapter.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement, and shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 16 of 2007, passed 12-10-2007)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 54.35 ENFORCEMENT; BY-LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The town shall make and enforce by-laws and regulations as may
be deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
town’s sewage system, pumping stations and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewage treatment
works, for the construction and use of house sewers and connection to the
sewage system, and for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of
the rates and charges.
      (2)   No free service shall be provided to any user of the wastewater
treatment facility.
   (B)   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the
town’s sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works of the town, or to require methods
affecting pretreatment of the wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards
included in the national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit
issued to the sewage works.
(Ord. 16 of 2007, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 54.36 APPEAL PROCESS.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the town, after approval by the
Town Council shall, among other things, provide for an appeal procedure whereby
a user shall have the right to appeal a decision of the administrator of the
sewage system and user charge system to the Town Council and that any decision
concerning the sewage system or user charges of the Town Council may be
appealed to the circuit court of the county under the appeal procedures
provided for in the State Administrative Adjudication Act.
(Ord. 16 of 2007, passed 12-10-2007)
§ 54.37 SEWER LIEN PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All bills for sewage usage shall be paid in the Office of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer on or before the fifteenth of each month, and any bill not paid
by the fifteenth of the month shall be assessed a penalty of 10% of the amount
of the sewage bill.
   (B)   (1)   A sewer bill not paid within 30 days after the due date shall be
considered delinquent. The customer may cure the delinquency by paying the
delinquent fees together with the penalty. Delinquent payments and penalties
may be collected through the small claims proceedings.
      (2)   If the delinquency is not cured within 30 days after becoming
delinquent, the town may terminate water service to the customer if the
municipality owns the water utility serving that customer.
   (C)   If the delinquent bill is for a property that is occupied by someone
other than the owner, and if the owner of the property has requested in writing
to be notified of any delinquencies on the property and provides an address to
which the notifications are to be mailed, the town shall send notice within 20
days after the bill became 60 days delinquent to the owner.
   (D)   If an account is delinquent for 90 days, the town shall record a lien
against the property. Twice each year, the Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare a list
of all accounts which are at least 90 days delinquent and record that list with
the County Recorder. This list must include:
      (1)   The delinquent fees;
      (2)   The penalty;
      (3)   The service charge;
      (4)   An amount to reimburse the municipality for recording the lien; and
      (5)   An amount to reimburse the municipality for releasing the lien.
   (E)   In addition to all delinquent fees and penalties, the town may recover
the recording and release fee paid to the County Recorder and a service charge
of $5. The town shall mail a notice to the owner of each property that a lien
has been recorded against the property. Liens recorded after March 31 of each
year will not be enforced until the next calendar year. The town shall release
the lien when the town has been reimbursed for its cost and the Recorder has
been paid for the recording of the release of lien.
   (F)   Prior to June 1 of each year, the town shall certify to the County
Auditor all recorded liens that remain unpaid. This certification shall include
those unpaid liens recorded between April 1 of the preceding year and April 1
of the current year. After certification to the County Auditor, the town may
not accept payment of any fee, charges or penalties. The collection shall be
solely through the Office of the County Treasurer. Upon certification, the
County Auditor shall add a certification fee of $15 in addition to the fees and
charges already assessed. The total amount due, together with the $15
certification fee, shall be added to the owner’s property tax statement for
November of that year. Upon collection by the county, the County Treasurer
shall retain the certification fee and the service charge and all remaining
fees and penalties shall be paid to the town at each semi-annual tax
settlement.
(Ord. 16 of 2007, passed 12-10-2007)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 54.50 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms
used in this subchapter shall be as follows:
   COUNCIL.  The Town Council of the Town of Winamac, Indiana, or any duly
authorized officials acting on its behalf.
   BOD or (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The same as defined in the sewer use
ordinance.
   TOWN. The Town of Winamac, Indiana, acting by and through the Town Council.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all current and proposed revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGES. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of "normal
domestic sewage".
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade, or
business process as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
convenience.
   NPDES (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM) PERMIT. The same as
defined in the sewer use ordinance.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. 
      (1)   For the purpose of determining surcharges, wastewater or sewage
having an average daily concentration as follows:
         (a)   BOD not more than 200 mg/l;
         (b)   S.S. not more than 200 mg/l;
         (c)   Phosphorus not more than 200 mg/l; and
         (d)   Ammonia not more than 20 mg/l.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Include all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to  provide adequate wastewater collection, transport, and treatment
on a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform
with all related federal, state, and local requirements. (These costs include
replacement.)
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges, and
other identifiable charges, other than user charges, debt service charges, and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. shall mean the expenditures for obtaining and installing
equipment, accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful
life of treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such
works were designed and constructed.
   S.S. or SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The same meaning as defined in the sewer use
ordinance.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SEWAGE. The same meaning as defined in the sewer use ordinance.
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment to this subchapter,
which regulates the connection to and use of public and private sewers.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of wastewater treatment works for the
cost of operation and maintenance of such works pursuant to Section 204(b) of
Public Law 92-500.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics, and process or discharge similarities (i.e.,
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, and governmental in the
user charge system).
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business or service which, based on a determination by the town,
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state, or local governmental user
of the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to a publicly-owned treatment works.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious, and/or educational function which, based on a
determination by the town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units, etc.
(Ord. 16 of 2007, passed 12-10-2007; Am. Ord 3, passed 10-11-2010; Am. Ord. 3
of 2013, passed 2-11-2013; Am. Ord. 7 of 2014, passed 6-9-2014; Am. Ord. 8 of
2016, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 54.51 USER CHARGES; CLASSES.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by said sewage works shall be
charged for the services provided. These charges are established for each user
class, as defined, in order that the sewage works shall recover, from each user
and user class, revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works
in terms of volume and load. User charges are levied to defray the cost of
operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment works. User
charges shall be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
      (1)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by
the USEPA. Replacement costs, which are recovered through the system of user
charges, shall be based upon the expected service life of the sewage works
equipment.
      (2)   The various classes of users of the treatment works for the
purposes of this subchapter shall be as follows:
         (a)   Class I - Residential;
         (b)   Commercial;
         (c)   Governmental;
         (d)   Institutional; and
         (e)   Industrial.
   (B)   For the use of and the service rendered by said sewage works, rates
and charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate, or building that is connected with the town sewage system or
otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other
liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewerage system of
the town. Such rates and charges include user charges, debt service costs,
excessive strength surcharges and other service charges, which rates and
charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount
determinable as follows:
      (1)   The sewage rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and charges,
as the same is measured by the water meter there in use, plus a base charge
based on the size of the water meter installed, except as herein otherwise
provided. For the purpose of billing and collecting the charges for sewage
service, the water meters shall be read monthly and the users shall be billed
monthly (or period equaling a month). The water usage schedule on which the
amount of said rates and charges shall be determined is as follows:
         All users - (Outside corporate town boundaries rates and charges are
approximately 14.9% higher than the rates and charges for customers inside the
corporate town boundaries.)
         (a)   Inside corporate town boundaries:
            1.   Treatment rate - per 1,000 gallons of usage per month:
 
User Charge Debt Service Total
$6.60       $3.74        $10.34
plus
            2.   Base rate - per month as follows:
Base Rate User Charge Debt Service Total
Base Rate                    User Charge Debt Service Total
5/8- or 3/4-inch water meter $7.40       $11.70       $19.10
1-inch water meter           $11.55      $29.20       $40.75
1 1/4-inch water meter       $15.75      $46.85       $62.60
1 1/2-inch water meter       $20.65      $67.85       $88.50
2-inch water meter           $32.15      $117.05      $149.20
3-inch water meter           $68.00      $269.20      $337.20
4-inch water meter           $117.55     $479.80      $597.35
6-inch water meter           $258.00     $1,076.70    $1,334.70
 
         (b)   Outside corporate town boundaries:
            1.   Treatment rate - per 1,000 gallons of usage per month:
 
User Charge Debt Service Total
$7.58       $4.30        $11.88
 
plus
            2.   Base rate - per month as follows:
Base Rate User Charge Debt Service Total
Base Rate                    User Charge Debt Service Total
5/8- or 3/4-inch water meter $8.55       $13.40       $21.95
1-inch water meter           $13.25      $33.60       $46.85
1 1/4-inch water meter       $18.05      $53.90       $71.95
1 1/2-inch water meter       $23.75      $78.00       $101.75
2-inch water meter           $37.00      $134.55      $171.55
3-inch water meter           $78.15      $309.55      $387.70
4-inch water meter           $135.10     $551.85      $686.95
6-inch water meter           $296.70     $1,238.20    $1,534.90
 
      (2)   (a)   For users of the sewage works that are unmetered water users
or accurate meter readings are not available, the monthly charge shall be
determined as an average of single family dwelling units, except as herein
provided. Sewage service bills shall be rendered once each month (or period
equaling a month).
         (b)   The schedule on which said rates and charges shall be determined
is amended as follows:
            1.   Inside corporate town boundaries:
 
                             User Charge Debt Service Total
Residential:
Single-family residence/unit $37.15      $28.40       $65.55
 
            2.   Outside corporate town boundaries:
 
                             User Charge Debt Service Total
Residential:
Single-family residence/unit $42.70      $32.65       $75.35
 
         (c)   Unmetered non-residential single family dwelling units shall be
charged a rate to be determined by the town on an individual basis by applying
the above metered rates to estimated usage and meter size.
      (3)   For the services rendered to the town, said town shall be subject
to the same rates and charges hereinabove provided, or to charges and rates
established in harmony therewith.
      (4)   In order to recover the cost of monitoring industrial wastes the
town shall charge the user the actual cost of monitoring but no less than $60
per sampling event. This charge will be reviewed on the same basis as all other
rates and charges in this subchapter.
(Ord. 16 of 2007, passed 12-10-2007; Am. Ord 3, passed 10-11-2010; Am. Ord. 3
of 2013, passed 2-11-2013; Am. Ord. 7 of 2014, passed 6-9-2014; Am. Ord. 8 of
2016, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 54.52 QUANTITY OF WATER; DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The quantity of water discharged into the sewage system and obtained
from sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be determined by
the town in such manner as the town shall reasonably elect, and the sewage
service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates; except, as is
hereinafter provided in this section. The town may make proper allowances in
determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be
consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of the town that such
quantities do not enter the sewage system.
      (1)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the town sewage
system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of water supplied by the
water utility serving the town and the water used thereon or therein is not
measured by a water meter, or if measured by a water meter not acceptable to
the town then the amount of water used shall be otherwise measured or
determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rate or charge provided in
this subchapter, the owner or other interested party shall at his expense,
install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices, or any
adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for
determining of sewage discharge.
      (2)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate, or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water, or other liquids in the town's
sewage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water supplied by
the water utility serving the town, and in addition is a user of water from
another source which is not measured by a water meter or is measured by a meter
not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rates or charges,
the owner or other interested parties shall, at his expense, install and
maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices, or any adequate and
approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of
sewage discharge.
      (3)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate,
or buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water, or other liquids into the
town's sewage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and the
quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in each such case,
for billing purposes, the quantity of water used shall be averaged for each
user and the base charge and the flow rates and charges shall apply to each of
the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate, or buildings served
through the single water meter.
      (4)   In the event two or more dwelling units such as mobile homes,
apartments, or house-keeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water, or other
liquids into the town's sanitary sewage system either directly or indirectly,
are users of water and the quantity of water is measured by a single water
meter, and billing for service is rendered in a single monthly bill, then in
such case, billing shall be for a single service in the manner set out
elsewhere herein, except that the minimum bill shall not be less than the
number of such dwelling units times base rate per month as shown below:
 
Inside corporate town boundaries  $19.10
Outside corporate town boundaries $21.95
 
      (5)   In order that domestic and residential users of sewage services
shall not be penalized for the sprinkling of lawns during the months June,
July, August, and September, the billing for sewage service for residents and/
or domestic users for said months of June, July, August and September shall be
based on the average water usage for the previous months of December, January,
February and March. In the event the average water usage for said previous
months of December, January, February and March is greater than the water usage
for said months of June, July, August and September, then the billing for
sewage service shall be computed on the actual water used in the month for
which the sewage service bill is being rendered. Domestic and/or residential
sewage service, as applicable to the sprinkling rate, shall apply to each lot,
parcel of real estate or building which is occupied and used as a residence.
Said sprinkling rate shall not apply to any premises which are partially or
wholly used for commercial or industrial purposes. In the event a portion of
such premises shall be used for commercial or industrial purposes, the owner
shall have the privilege of separating the water service so that the
residential portion of the premises is served through a separate meter, and in
such case, the water usage as registered by the water meter serving such
portion of the premises used for residential purposes would qualify under the
sprinkling rate.
      (6)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids to the town's sewage
system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in excess of 10,000
gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of the town that a
portion of water as measured by the water meter or meters does not and cannot
enter the sanitary sewage system, then the owner or other interested party
shall, at his expense, install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring
devices or any adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the
town for the determination of sewage discharge.
      (7)   Where a metered water supply is used for fire protection as well as
for other users, the town may, at its discretion, make adjustments in the user
charge as may be equitable.
   (B)   In order that the rates and charges may reflect the costs of providing
service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not only on the
volume, but also the strength and character of the stronger-than-normal
domestic sewage and wastes which it is required to treat and dispose of. The
town shall require the user to determine the strength and content of all sewage
and wastes discharged, either directly or indirectly into the sanitary sewage
system, in such manner and by such method as the town may deem practicable in
order to determine the proper charge. The user shall furnish a central sampling
point available to the town at all times.
      (1)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a
biochemical oxygen demand of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid or suspended
solids in excess of 200 milligrams per liter of fluid. Additional charges for
treating stronger-than-normal domestic waste shall be made on the following
basis:
         (a)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge as shown below for suspended solids received in excess of 200
milligrams per liter of fluid.
 
$0.38 per pound of suspended solids received in excess of 200 milligrams per
liter of fluid
 
         (b)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional
charge as shown below for BOD received in excess of 200 milligrams per liter of
fluid.
 
$0.38 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand received in excess of 200
milligrams per liter of fluid
 
      (2)   The determination of suspended solids, five-day biochemical oxygen
demand contained in the waste shall be in accordance with the current addition
of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes
as written by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
(Ord. 16 of 2007, passed 12-10-2007; Am. Ord 3, passed 10-11-2010; Am. Ord. 3
of 2013, passed 2-11-2013; Am. Ord. 7 of 2014, passed 6-9-2014; Am. Ord. 8 of
2016, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 54.53 BILLING.
   (A)   Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the
town in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (B)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly. At the end of each year, each user shall be given a notice of the
rates charged for operation, maintenance and replacement for that user for the
previous year.
   (C)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the town for the purpose of determining whether bills
have been paid by such tenant or tenants, provided that such examination shall
be made at the office at which said records are kept and during the hours that
such office is open for business.
   (D)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent and penalty of 10% of the amount of the rates
or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which such rates or
charges shall be paid is now fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of the
bill.
(Ord. 16 of 2007, passed 12-10-2007; Am. Ord 3, passed 10-11-2010; Am. Ord. 3
of 2013, passed 2-11-2013; Am. Ord. 7 of 2014, passed 6-9-2014; Am. Ord. 8 of
2016, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 54.54 STUDY OF SEWER USE AND RATES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various uses for user classes, the town shall cause a study to be made
within a reasonable period of time following the first two years of operation,
following the date on which the first goes into effect. Such study shall
include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the costs associated with the
treatment of excessive strength effluent from industrial users, volume and
delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to the various users or user
classes, the financial position of the sewage works and the adequacy of its
revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation and maintenance,
replacements, debt service requirements and capital improvements of the waste
treatment systems.
   (B)   Thereafter, on a biennial basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the town shall cause a study to be made
for the purpose of reviewing:
      (1)   The sufficiency of the revenues to properly operate the wastewater
treatment facility and all appurtenances attached thereto; and
      (2)   Will maintain proportionally among the user classes of the rate and
charges for sewage services.
   (C)   Said studies shall be conducted by officers or employees of the town,
or by a firm of certified public accountants, or firm of consulting engineers
which firms shall have experience in such studies, or by such combination of
officers, employees, certified public accountants or engineers as the town
shall determine to be best under the circumstances.
(Ord. 16 of 2007, passed 12-10-2007; Am. Ord 3, passed 10-11-2010; Am. Ord. 3
of 2013, passed 2-11-2013; Am. Ord. 7 of 2014, passed 6-9-2014; Am. Ord. 8 of
2016, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 54.55 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The town shall make and enforce such by-laws and regulations as
may be deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of
the town's sewage system, pumping stations and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connection to the sewage system, and
for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of such rates and
charges. No free service shall be provided to any user of the wastewater
treatment facility.
      (2)   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into
the town's sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works of the town, or to require methods
affecting pretreatment of said wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards
included in the NPDES Permit issued to the sewage works.
   (B)   The Council is hereby further authorized to enter into special rate
contracts with users of the Sewage Works where clearly definable cost to the
Sewage Works can be determined, and such special rates shall be based on such
costs.
   (C)   That the rules and regulations promulgated by the town, after approval
of the Town Council shall, among other things, provide for an appeal procedure
whereby a user shall have the right to appeal a decision of the administrator
of the sewage system and user charge system of the Town Council and that any
decision concerning the sewage system or user charges of the Town Council may
be appealed to the circuit court of the County under the appeal procedures
provided for in the Indiana Administrative Adjudication Act.
(Ord. 16 of 2007, passed 12-10-2007; Am. Ord 3, passed 10-11-2010; Am. Ord. 3
of 2013, passed 2-11-2013; Am. Ord. 7 of 2014, passed 6-9-2014; Am. Ord. 8 of
2016, passed 7-11-2016)
§ 54.56 INSTALLATION OF LAWN SPRINKLING METERS.
   (A)   All lawn sprinkling meters must be installed in such a manner as to
provide a direct reading of the amount of water used for lawn sprinkling and
for a direct reading of the amount of water used that is subject to a sewer
charge. Water meters installed in “series”, where one meter reading is
subtracted from another meter reading, will no longer be allowed.
   (B)   The prevailing rates and charges, as found in the Water Rates and
Charges for the Winamac Municipal Water Utility (see §
53.01), will govern the installation of lawn sprinkler meters.
   (C)   All current lawn sprinkler meters that are connected in a “series”
fashion as of May 14, 2001 are hereby grandfathered. Whenever maintenance is
needed on the water meters or lines running to the water meters, the metering
system must be brought up to code to provide direct readings.
   (D)   If a lawn sprinkler system is not installed to code, only the primary
meter will be read by the town, and all water used will be charged the
prevailing sewage rate.
(Ord. 16 of 2007, passed 12-10-2007)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Vehicle inspection fees
   
70.02   Weight limits within town
   
70.03   Golf carts
   
70.04   Speed limits for all non-state highway roadways
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 VEHICLE INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   All motor vehicles which are presented to the Police Department
pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 9-17-2 for an inspection shall be charged
the sum of $3 for the inspection, which shall be paid immediately following the
completion of the inspection at the municipal building.
   (B)   Upon making inspection, all individuals who present vehicles for
inspection shall be issued a receipt for the fee collected in the amounts, and
once collected, shall be deposited to the Special Vehicle Inspection Fund of
the town, to be used for law enforcement purposes as may be allowed by state
law after properly appropriated.
(`94 Code, § 4-3)
§ 70.02 WEIGHT LIMITS WITHIN TOWN.
   (A)   Weight limit. Any vehicle exceeding a gross weight of 14 tons (28,000
pounds) is prohibited from using any street or alley within the corporate
limits of the town.
   (B)   Exceptions. Deliveries to local businesses or police-ordered traffic
re-routing are specifically exempt from this section.
   (C)   Posting of weight limit signs. Weight limit signs will be posted on
all roads and highways leading into the town.
   (D)   Penalties for violation. Any person who violates this section shall be
fined $75. Each day that the violation remains shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (E)   Payment of civil penalties. Civil penalties for violations of this
section shall be payable through the Clerk-Treasurer’s Office within 30 days of
being notified of the violation.
(Ord. 5, 2001, passed 5-14-2001)
§ 70.03 GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      MOTORIZED CART or CART. An electric- or gasoline-powered motor vehicle,
commonly called a “golf cart,” having no less than four wheels, an unladen
weight of no more than 1,500 pounds, and as further defined in I.C. 9-13-2-
69.7.
   (B)   Registration.
      (1)   Registration/transfer fee. A registration fee of $25 for each cart
registered shall be payable at the time of registration, and the registration
shall be effective for a period of one year. The registration fee shall be paid
by January 31 of each year, in order to utilize a golf cart for the current
year in which the registration is paid. All registration fees for motorized
carts are to be deposited in the Winamac Police Department’s Continuing
Education Fund.
      (2)   Decals issued upon registration. Prior to operation on private
roads, highways, and other public-rights-of-way within the jurisdiction of the
town, a motorized cart shall be registered by its owner with the Winamac Police
Department. Upon such registration, the Winamac Police Department shall issue
two numerical identification decals to the owner and shall maintain a record of
each identification number, along with the name and address of the registered
owner. The identification decals shall be affixed to the front and rear fender
areas of the cart so as to be fully visible when the cart is in operation.
Registration and decals are non-transferable.
      (3)   Proof of financial responsibility. The owner of every motorized
cart operated on private roads, highways and other public rights-of-way shall
furnish proof of financial responsibility, as that term is defined by I.C. 9-
25-2-3. Written proof of financial responsibility must be carried by the
operator at all times.
   (C)   Operational regulations.
      (1)   Motorized carts shall be maintained in proper working condition,
with all equipment in working order.
      (2)   Motorized carts shall be identified with a slow moving vehicle
sign, as prescribed by I.C. 9-21-9-2, and equipped with headlights, taillights,
brake lights, and turn signals, which will allow the licensed operator to
operate on non-prohibited private roads, highways, and other public rights-of-
way, under the jurisdiction of the town, posted with a speed limit of 35 miles
an hour or less at a speed no greater than 30 miles per hour.
      (3)   Only persons possessing a valid driver’s license issued by the
State of Indiana, another state of the United States of America or an
international agency shall be permitted to operate a motorized cart on private
roads, highways, and other public rights-of-way under the jurisdiction of the
town.
      (4)   Motorized carts shall not be operated on the town’s sidewalks or
the greenway trails.
      (5)   Motorized carts shall not be operated on any of the following
listed streets within the town’s corporate limits:
         (a)   U.S. Highway 35;
         (b)   State Road 14;
         (c)   State Road 119.
      (6)   Crossing of U.S. Highway 35, State Road 14, and State Road 119 by
motorized carts shall be permitted only at designated crossings.
      (7)   Operators of all motorized carts must yield to overtaking traffic.
      (8)   Operators of all motorized carts, as well as any occupants, shall
act in a manner that does not endanger any passenger, pedestrian, or any other
member of the general public.
   (D)   Exemptions. An exemption may be issued for a limited time, location,
and purpose by the Town Council, as occasions and conditions so require. Such
occasions include, but are not limited to, parade participations and festivals.
(Ord. 11-2012, passed 8-13-2012; Am. Ord. 11 of 2017, passed 11-13-2017; Am.
Ord. 11 of 2023, passed 9-11-2023) Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.04 SPEED LIMITS FOR ALL NON-STATE HIGHWAY ROADWAYS.
   (A)   As of September 11, 2023, the Town Council designates the currently
posted speed limits for all non-state roadways as the applicable speed limits
for all non-state roadways located within the town limits. Any non-state
roadways without a posted speed limits sign shall have the state-mandated speed
limitations for roadways of that type and character, as set forth under the
Indiana Code. For purposes of this section, NON-STATE ROADWAYS shall also
exclude any federal or interstate highways.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby appoints the following individuals as the
enforcement authorities for the town, as it pertains to enforcement of this
section:
      (1)   The Town Police Department, through any of its officers;
      (2)   The Pulaski County Sheriff's Department, through any of its
officers; and
      (3)   Any other law enforcement official who is licensed to enforce state
traffic laws in the State of Indiana.
(Ord. 12 of 2023, passed 9-11-2023) Penalty, see § 70.99
Cross-reference:
   Speed limits, see
Chapter 72, Schedule I
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the policy of the Winamac Police Department to issue
a uniform traffic citation to any person the officer has probable cause to
believe has violated a provision of the Indiana Code, or any town ordinance,
while operating a motorized cart, irrespective of whether the offending person
is a juvenile or any other person.
      (2)   Any unregistered motorized cart in violation of §
70.03 shall be issued an Indiana Uniform Traffic Citation, and may be towed, at
the owner’s expense.
      (3)   Any owner and/or operator of any motorized cart found to be in
violation of §
70.03, shall be issued the following fines:
         (a)   First offense: A $50 fine shall be issued.
         (b)   Second offense (within one year): A $100 fine shall be issued.
         (c)   Third offense (within one year): A $500 fine shall be issued,
and the owner’s registration to operate a golf cart shall be revoked for a
period of one year from the date of the third offense.
      (4)   A fine assessed under §
70.03 will be deposited in the town’s General Fund.
   (B)   Any individual who exceeds the posted speed limits, and in the
discretion of the enforcement authority, creates a public health and safety
hazard in violation of §
70.04, may be assessed a fine $100 per violation, at the discretion of the
enforcement authority.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision in
Schedules I,
II,
III,
IV or
V of
Chapter 73 shall be fined $10. Each day that the violation remains shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2 of 2007; passed 6-11-2007; Am. Ord. 11-2012, passed 8-13-2012; Am. Ord.
11 of 2017, passed 11-13-2017; Am. Ord. 11 of 2023, passed 9-11-2023; Am. Ord.
12 of 2023, passed 9-11-2023)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Designation of individual parking spaces
   
71.02   Limited duration parking zones
§ 71.01 DESIGNATION OF INDIVIDUAL PARKING SPACES.
   The town is hereby authorized and directed to designate and mark off
individual parking spaces, as deemed proper, along the streets in the congested
traffic area for the parking of vehicles. At the place where individual parking
spaces are so marked off, each vehicle shall be parked entirely within an
individual parking space.
(`94 Code, § 4-2-1)
§ 71.02 LIMITED DURATION PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   The Town Council of the Town of Winamac, Indiana, hereby identifies
the following parking spots as "15 Minute Parking" zones due to the need for
open parking spaces in front of public buildings, to alleviate traffic
congestion, and for the health, safety and welfare of town residents:
      (1)   Eight parking spots located in front of the Town Hall, including
one handicap parking spot and seven non-handicap parking spots. These parking
spots will be further identified by proper signage, indicating that the given
spots are "15 Minute Parking" spots only.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby appoints the following individuals as the
enforcement authorities for the town, as it pertains to enforcement of this
section:
      (1)   The Town Police Department, through any of its officers;
      (2)   The Pulaski County Sheriffs Department;
      (3)   Any other agent of the town, that has been duly authorized by a
vote of the majority of the Town Council, at a meeting open to the public.
   (C)   Penalties. Penalties for any violation of this section, shall be
assessed, as follows:
      (1)   First offense: $25.
      (2)   (a)   Second offense: $50.
         (b)   For purposes of this section, an offense shall be considered a
second offense, if the commission of the second offense occurs within 180 days
following the first offense. If any repeat violation occurs outside of this
180-day window, that violation shall be considered a first offense.
      (3)   (a)   Additional offenses: $100 per offense.
         (b)   For purposes of this section, an offense shall be considered an
additional offense, if the commission of the additional offense occurred within
90 days following either the second or previous additional offense. If any
repeat violation occurs outside of this 90-day window, that violation shall be
considered a first offense.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the town from having any
vehicle in violation of this section towed, at the owner, operator, or
licensee's expense, provided that the town has adhered to proper statutory
procedure.
(Ord. 21 of 2021, passed 11-8-2021)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Stop and yield intersections
   
III.   Miscellaneous restrictions
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for a person driving a motor vehicle to drive at speeds
exceeding those listed below.
 
Location                                      Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
Town park, located along the Tippacanoe River 15 mph      7, 1999  6-22-1999
 
Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Speed limits for all non-state highway roadways, see §
70.04
SCHEDULE II. STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person driving a motor vehicle to not stop or
yield as directed through the intersections as follows.
   (A)   Four-way stop intersections.
Street/Intersection Location Direction Ord. No. Date Passed
Street/           Location          Direction Ord. No.          Date Passed
Intersection
Intersection of   Right side of
12th Street and   12th Street       East      5 of 2010         9-13-2010
Hathaway Street
Intersection of   Right side of
12th Street and   12th Street       West      5 of 2010         9-13-2010
Hathaway Street
Intersection of   Right side of
12th Street and   Hathaway Street   North     5 of 2010         9-13-2010
Hathaway Street
Intersection of   Right side of
12th Street and   Hathaway Street   South     5 of 2010         9-13-2010
Hathaway Street
Intersection of   Right side of
12th Street and   Market Street     North     -                 -
Market Street
Intersection of   Right side of
12th Street and   Market Street     South     -                 -
Market Street
Intersection of   Right side of
12th Street and   12th Street       East      -                 -
Market Street
Intersection of   Right side of
12th Street and   12th Street       West      -                 -
Market Street
Intersection of   Right side of
16th Street and   16th Street       East      1 of 2010         6-14-2010
Hathaway Street
Intersection of   Right side of
16th Street and   16th Street       West      1 of 2010         6-14-2010
Hathaway Street
Intersection of   Right side of
16th Street and   Hathaway Street   North     1 of 2010         6-14-2010
Hathaway Street
Intersection of   Right side of
16th Street and   Hathaway Street   South     1 of 2010         6-14-2010
Hathaway Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Adams Street and  West Street       North     11, 1999          11-23-1999
West Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Adams Street and  West Street       South     11, 1999          11-23-1999
West Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Agnew Street and  13th Street       East      11, 1999          11-23-1999
13th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Agnew Street and  13th Street       West      11, 1999          11-23-1999
13th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Agnew Street and  Agnew Street      North     -                 -
15th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Agnew Street and  Agnew Street      South     -                 -
15th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Agnew Street and  15th Street       West      -                 -
15th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Agnew Street and  15th Street       East      -                 -
15th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Agnew Street and  Agnew Street      South     11, 1999          11-23-1999
17th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Erie Street and   Erie Street       East      11, 1999          11-23-1999
Burson Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Falvey Street and 17th Street       East      11, 1999          11-23-1999
17th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Franklin Street   Franklin Street   North     -                 -
and Main Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Franklin Street   Franklin Street   South     -                 -
and Main Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Franklin Street   Main Street       East      -                 -
and Main Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Franklin Street   Main Street       West      -                 -
and Main Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Hathaway Street   12th Street       East      11, 1999          11-23-1999
and 12th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Hathaway Street   12th Street       West      11, 1999          11-23-1999
and 12th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Hathaway Street   13th Street       East      11, 1999          11-23-1999
and 13th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Hathaway Street   13th Street       West      11, 1999          11-23-1999
and 13th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Hathaway Street   14th Street       East      11, 1999          11-23-1999
and 14th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Hathaway Street   Hathaway Street   North     -                 -
and 15th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Hathaway Street   Hathaway Street   South     -                 -
and 15th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Hathaway Street   15th Street       East      -                 -
and 15th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Hathaway Street   15th Street       West      -                 -
and 15th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Hathaway Street   Hathaway Street   South     11, 1999          11-23-1999
and 17th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Huron and Burson  Huron Street      East      11, 1999          11-23-1999
Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Jefferson Street  West Street       South     11, 1999          11-23-1999
and West Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Logan Street and  Logan Street      East      9, 2021           5-10-2021
Adams Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Logan Street and  Logan Street      North     9, 2021           5-10-2021
Adams Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Logan Street and  Logan Street      South     9, 2021           5-10-2021
Adams Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Logan Street and  Logan Street      West      9, 2021           5-10-2021
Adams Street
Intersection of
Madison Street    Right side of     North     6, 2001           7-9-2001
and Northwest     Northwest Street
Street
Intersection of
Madison Street    Right side of     South     6, 2001           7-9-2001
and Northwest     Northwest Street
Street
Intersection of
Madison Street    Right side of     East      6, 2001           7-9-2001
and Northwest     Madison Street
Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Madison Street    Braun Corporation West      6, 2001           7-9-2001
and Northwest     private drive
Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Market Street and Market Street     North     -                 -
15th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Market Street and Market Street     South     -                 -
15th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Market Street and 15th Street       East      -                 -
15th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Market Street and 15th Street       West      -                 -
15th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Market Street and Market Street     North     2, 2015           5-11-2015
16th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Market Street and Market Street     South     2, 2015           5-11-2015
16th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Market Street and 16th Street       East      2, 2015           5-11-2015
16th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Market Street and 16th Street       West      2, 2015           5-11-2015
16th Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Market Street and Market Street     North     -                 -
Madison Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Market Street and Market Street     South     -                 -
Madison Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Market Street and Madison Street    East      -                 -
Madison Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Market Street and Madison Street    West      -                 -
Madison Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Market Street and Market Street     North     -                 -
Main Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Market Street and Market Street     South     -                 -
Main Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Market Street and Main Street       East      -                 -
Main Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Market Street and Main Street       West      -                 -
Main Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Market Street and Market Street     North     -                 -
Pearl Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Market Street and Market Street     South     -                 -
Pearl Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Market Street and Pearl Street      East      -                 -
Pearl Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Market Street and Pearl Street      West      -                 -
Pearl Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Market Street and Market Street     North     2, 2000           6-12-2000
Superior Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Market Street and Market Street     South     2, 2000           6-12-2000
Superior Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Market Street and Superior Street   East      2, 2000           6-12-2000
Superior Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Market Street and Superior Street   West      2, 2000           6-12-2000
Superior Street
Intersection of   Right side of
McCombs Street    McCombs Street    East      2 of 2005         5-9-2005
and West Street
Intersection of   Right side of
McCombs Street    McCombs Street    West      2 of 2005         5-9-2005
and West Street
Intersection of   Right side of
McCombs Street    West Street       North     2 of 2005         5-9-2005
and West Street
Intersection of   Right side of
McCombs Street    West Street       South     2 of 2005         5-9-2005
and West Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Northwest Street  Summit Street     North     2, 2000           6-12-2000
and Summit Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Northwest Street  Summit Street     East      2, 2000           6-12-2000
and Summit Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Northwest Street  Summit Street     West      2, 2000           6-12-2000
and Summit Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Riverside Drive   Riverside Drive   North     -                 -
and Main Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Riverside Drive   Riverside Drive   South     -                 -
and Main Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Riverside Drive   Main Street       East      -                 -
and Main Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Riverside Drive   Main Street       West      -                 -
and Main Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Riverside Drive   Riverside Drive   North     -                 -
and Washington
Intersection of   Right side of
Riverside Drive   Riverside Drive   South     -                 -
and Washington
Intersection of   Right side of
Riversdale Drive  Washington Street East      -                 -
and Washington
Intersection of   Right side of
Riverside Drive   Washington Street West      -                 -
and Washington
Intersection of   Right side of
Riverside Drive   Washington Street East      -                 -
and Washington
Intersection of   Right side of
South Street and  West Street       North     11, 1999          11-23-1999
West Street
Intersection of   Right side of
South Street and  West Street       South     11, 1999          11-23-1999
West Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Superior Street   Superior Street   East      11, 1999          11-23-1999
and Burson Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Washington Street Washington Street East      9, 2021           5-10-2021
and West Street
Intersection of   Right side of
Washington and    Washington Street West      9, 2021           5-10-2021
West Street
Intersection of   Right side of                                 11-23-1999 ; 5-
Washington Street West Street       North     11, 1999; 9, 2021 10-2021
and West Street
Intersection of   Right side of                                 11-23-1999 ; 5-
Washington Street West Street       South     11, 1999; 9, 2021 10-2021
and West Street
Intersection of   Right side of
West Street and   Boyles Street     East      11, 1999          11-23-1999
Boyles Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Riverside Drive
and Monticello    Right side of
Street and the    both alleys       All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
alley between
Superior Street
and Huddleston
Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Riverside Drive
and Monticello    Right side of     All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
Street and the    both alleys
alley between
Huddleston Street
and Rowan Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Riverside Drive
and Monticello    Right side of     All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
Street and the    both alleys
alley between
Washington Street
and Adams Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Riverside Drive
and Monticello    Right side of     All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
Street and the    both alleys
alley between
Adams Street and
Jefferson Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Riverside Drive
and Monticello    Right side of     All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
Street and the    both alleys
alley between
Jefferson Street
and Main Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Riverside Drive
and Monticello    Right side of     All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
Street and the    both alleys
alley between
Main Street and
Pearl Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Riverside Drive
and Monticello    Right side of     All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
Street and the    both alleys
alley between
Pearl Street and
Spring Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Riverside Drive
and Monticello    Right side of     All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
Street and the    both alleys
alley between
Spring Street and
Madison Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Riverside Drive
and Monticello    Right side of     All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
Street and the    both alleys
alley between
Madison Street
and 11th Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Riverside Drive
and Monticello    Right side of     All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
Street and the    both alleys
alley between
11th Street and
12th Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Monticello Street
and Market Street Right side of     All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
and the alley     both alleys
between Superior
Street and
Huddleston Street
Intersection
(southernmost) of
the alley between
Monticello Street
and Market Street Right side of     All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
and the alley     both alleys
between
Huddleston Street
and Washington
Street
Intersection
(northernmost) of
the alley between
Monticello Street
and Market Street Right side of     All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
and the alley     both alleys
between
Huddleston Street
and Washington
Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Monticello Street
and Market Street Right side of     All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
and the alley     both alleys
between
Washington Street
and Adams Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Monticello Street
and Market Street Right side of     All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
and the alley     both alleys
between Adams
Street and
Jefferson Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Monticello Street
and Market Street Right side of     All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
and the alley     both alleys
between Main
Street and Pearl
Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Monticello Street
and Market Street Right side of     All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
and the alley     both alleys
between Pearl
Street and Spring
Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Monticello Street
and Market Street Right side of     All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
and the alley     both alleys
between Spring
Street and
Madison Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Monticello Street
and Market Street Right side of     All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
and the alley     both alleys
between 11th
Street and 12th
Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Market Street and Right side of
Burson Street and both alleys       All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
the alley between
Huron Street and
Erie Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Market Street and
Burson Street and Right side of     All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
the alley between both alleys
Superior Street
and Huddleston
Street
Intersection
(southernmost) of
the alley between
Market Street and Right side of
Burson Street and both alleys       All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
the alley between
Huddleston Street
and Washington
Street
Intersection
(northernmost) of
the alley between
Market Street and Right side of
Burson Street and both alleys       All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
the alley between
Huddleston Street
and Washington
Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Market Street and Right side of
Logan Street and  both alleys       All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
the alley between
Washington Street
and Adams Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Market Street and Right side of
Logan Street and  both alleys       All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
the alley between
Adams Street and
Jefferson Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Market Street and Right side of
Logan Street and  both alleys       All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
the alley between
Jefferson Street
and Main Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Market Street and Right side of
Logan Street and  both alleys       All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
the alley between
Main Street and
Pearl Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Market Street and Right side of
Logan Street and  both alleys       All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
the alley between
Pearl Street and
Spring Street
Intersection of
the alley between
Market Street and
Hathaway Street   Right side of     All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
and the alley     both alleys
between 11th
Street and 12th
Street
Intersection
(easternmost) of
the alley between
East Street and   Right side of
Northwest Street  both alleys       All       8, 1999           8-24-1999
and the alley
between Summit
Street and
Jenkins Street
 
   (B)   Two-way stop intersections.
Street/Intersection Location Direction
Street/Intersection                   Location                        Direction
Intersection of 11th Street (SR #14)  Right side of Market Street     North
and Market Street
Intersection of 11th Street (SR #14)  Right side of Market Street     South
and Market Street
Intersection of 13th Street and       Right side of 13th Street       East
Market Street
Intersection of 13th Street and       Right side of 13th Street       West
Market Street
Intersection of 13th Street and       Right side of 13th Street       East
Monticello Street
Intersection of 13th Street and       Right side of 13th Street       West
Monticello Street
Intersection of 14th Street and       Right side of 14th Street       East
Hathaway Street
Intersection of 14th Street and       Right side of 14th Street       West
Hathaway Street
Intersection of 14th Street and       Right side of 14th Street       East
Market Street
Intersection of 14th Street and       Right side of 14th Street       West
Market Street
Intersection of 14th Street and       Right side of 14th Street       East
Monticello Street
Intersection of 14th Street and       Right side of 14th Street       West
Monticello Street
Intersection of 15th Street and       Right side of 15th Street       East
Monticello Street
Intersection of 15th Street and       Right side of 15th Street       West
Monticello Street
Intersection of 15th Street and       Right side of Riverside Drive   North
Riverside Drive
Intersection of 15th Street and       Right side of Riverside Drive   South
Riverside Drive
Intersection of 16th Street and Agnew Right side of 16th Street       East
Street
Intersection of 16th Street and Agnew Right side of 16th Street       West
Street
Intersection of 16th Street and       Right side of 16th Street       East
Market Street
Intersection of 16th Street and       Right side of 16th Street       West
Market Street
Intersection of Adams Street and      Right side of Adams Street      East
Logan Street
Intersection of Adams Street and      Right side of Adams Street      West
Logan Street
Intersection of Adams Street and      Right side of Adams Street      East
Market Street
Intersection of Adams Street and      Right side of Adams Street      West
Market Street
Intersection of Adams Street and      Right side of Adams Street      East
Monticello Street
Intersection of Adams Street and      Right side of Adams Street      West
Monticello Street
Intersection of Burson Street and     Right side of Burson Street     North
Superior Street
Intersection of Burson Street and     Right side of Burson Street     South
Superior Street
Intersection of Erie Street and       Right side of Erie Street       East
Market Street
Intersection of Erie Street and       Right side of Erie Street       West
Market Street
Intersection of Erie Street and       Right side of Erie Street       East
Monticello Street
Intersection of Erie Street and       Right side of Erie Street       West
Monticello Street
Intersection of Huddleston Street and Right side of Huddleston Street East
Market Street
Intersection of Huddleston Street and Right side of Huddleston Street West
Market Street
Intersection of Huddleston Street and Right side of Huddleston Street East
Monticello Street
Intersection of Huddleston Street and Right side of Huddleston Street West
Monticello Street
Intersection of Huddleston Street and Right side of Huddleston Street East
Riverside Drive
Intersection of Huddleston Street and Right side of Huddleston Street West
Riverside Drive
Intersection of Huron Street and      Right side of Huron Street      East
Market Street
Intersection of Huron Street and      Rights side of Huron Street     West
Market Street
Intersection of Jefferson Street and  Right side of Jefferson Street  East
Market Street
Intersection of Jefferson Street and  Right side of Jefferson Street  West
Market Street
Intersection of Jefferson Street and  Right side of Jefferson Street  East
Monticello Street
Intersection of Jefferson Street and  Right side of Jefferson Street  West
Monticello Street
Intersection of Madison Street and    Right side of Madison Street    East
Monticello Street
Intersection of Madison Street and    Right side of Madison Street    West
Monticello Street
Intersection of Main Street and Logan Right side of Logan Street      North
Street
Intersection of Main Street and Logan Right side of Logan Street      South
Street
Intersection of Main Street and       Right side of Main Street       East
Monticello Street
Intersection of Main Street and       Right side of Main Street       West
Monticello Street
Intersection of Meridian Street and   Right side of Meridian Street   East
Monticello Street
Intersection of Meridian Street and   Right side of Meridian Street   West
Monticello Street
Intersection of Rowan Street and      Right side of Rowan Street      East
Riverside Drive
Intersection of Rowan Street and      Right side of Rowan Street      West
Riverside Drive
Intersection of Spring Street and     Right side of Spring Street     East
Market Street
Intersection of Spring Street and     Right side of Spring Street     West
Market Street
Intersection of Spring Street and     Right side of Spring Street     East
Monticello Street
Intersection of Spring Street and     Right side of Spring Street     West
Monticello Street
Intersection of SR #14 and Plymouth   Right side of Plymouth Street   North
Street
Intersection of SR #14 and Plymouth   Right side of Plymouth Street   South
Street
Intersection of SR #14 and Riverside  Right side of Riverside Drive   North
Drive
Intersection of SR #14 and Riverside  Right side of Riverside Drive   South
Drive
Intersection of SR #35 and Riverside  Right side of Riverside Drive   North
Drive
Intersection of SR #35 and Riverside  Right side of Riverside Drive   South
Drive
Intersection of Superior Street and   Right side of Superior Street   East
Monticello Street
Intersection of Superior Street and   Right side of Superior Street   West
Monticello Street
Intersection of Washington Street and Right side of Washington Street East
Franklin Street
Intersection of Washington Street and Right side of Washington Street West
Franklin Street
Intersection of Washington Street and Right side of Market Street     South
Market Street
Intersection of Washington Street and Right side of Market Street     North
Market Street
Intersection of Washington Street and Right side of Washington Street East
Monticello Street
Intersection of Washington Street and Right side of Washington Street West
Monticello Street
 
   (C)   One-way stop intersections.
Street/Intersection Location Direction
Street/Intersection                Location                           Direction
Intersection of 11th Street (SR    Right side of Hathaway Street      North
#14) and Hathaway Street
Intersection of 11th Street (SR    Right side of 11th Street (SR #14) West
#14) and Riverside Drive
Intersection of 12th Street and    Right side of Riverside Drive      North
Riverside Drive
Intersection of 12th Street and    Right side of 12th Street          West
Riverside Drive
Intersection of 13th Street and    Right side of 13th Street          West
Riverside Drive
Intersection of 14th Street and    Right side of Monticello Street    North
Monticello Street
Intersection of 14th Street and    Right side of 14th Street          West
Riverside Drive
Intersection of 15th Street and US Right side of 15th Street          West
Route #35
Intersection of 16th Street and    Right side of 16th Street          East
Falvey Street
Intersection of 16th Street and    Right side of 16th Street          West
Monticello Street
Intersection of 50 W and Adams     Right side of Adams Street         East
Street
Intersection of 50 W and Main      Right side of Main Street          East
Street
Intersection of Adams Street and   Right side of Adams Street         West
Franklin Street
Intersection of Adams Street and   Right side of Adams Street         East
Franklin Street
Intersection of Adams Street and   Right side of Adams Street         West
Riverside Drive
Intersection of Erie Street and    Right side of Erie Street          West
Huddleston Street
Intersection of Falvey Street and  Right side of 15th Street          East
15th Street
Intersection of Forest Drive and   Right side of Forest Drive         South
SR #14
Intersection of Galbreath Drive    Right side of Galbreath Drive      East
and Plymouth Road
Intersection of Galbreath Drive    Right side of Willow Creek Court   North
and Willow Creek Court
Intersection of Huron Street and   Right side of Huron Street         West
Monticello Street
Intersection of Jefferson Street   Right side of Jefferson Street     West
and Franklin Street
Intersection of Jefferson Street   Right side of Jefferson Street     East
and Logan Street
Intersection of Jefferson Street   Right side of Jefferson Street     West
and Riverside Drive
Intersection of Keller Street and  Right side of 11th Street (SR #14) East
11th Street (SR #14)
Intersection of Logan Street and   Right side of LaurDi Street        West
LaurDi Street
Intersection of Madison Street and Right side of Madison Street       West
East Street
Intersection of Madison Street and Right side of Madison Street       East
Logan Street
Intersection of Madison Street and Right side of Logan Street         South
Logan Street
Intersection of Madison Street and Right side of Madison Street       West
Riverside Drive
Intersection of Market Street and  Right side of Pearson Street       East
Pearson Street
Intersection of McCombs Street and Right side of McCombs Street       West
Franklin Street
Intersection of Meridian Street    Right side of Meridian Street      East
and Market Street
Intersection of Monticello Street  Right side of Monticello Street    North
and Huddleston Street
Intersection of Monticello Street  Right side of Monticello Street    North
and Rowan Street
Intersection of Narrow Street and  Right side of Narrow Street        West
Franklin Street
Intersection of Northwest Street   Right side of Northwest Street     South
and 11th Street (SR #14)
Intersection of Ontario Street and Right side of Ontario Street       West
Huddleston Street
Intersection of Pearl Street and   Right side of Pearl Street         East
Logan Street
Intersection of Pearl Street and   Right side of Pearl Street         West
Riverside Drive
Intersection of Pearson Street and Right side of Pearson Street       West
Monticello
Intersection of Riverside Drive    Right side of Huddleston Street    North
and Huddleston Street
Intersection of South Street and   Right side of South Street         West
Franklin Street
Intersection of South Street and   Right side of West Street          North
West Street
Intersection of Spring Street and  Right side of Spring Street        East
Logan Street
Intersection of Spring Street and  Right side of Spring Street        West
Riverside Drive
Intersection of SR #14 and Decker  Right side of Decker Drive         North
Drive
Intersection of SR #14 and         Right side of SR #14               East
Monticello Street
Intersection of SR #14 and Pulaski Right side of the exit             South
Memorial Hospital parking lot exit
Intersection of Stamper Street and
SR #14 on the east side of the     Right side of Stamper Street       South
semi-circle loop
Intersection of Stamper Street and
SR #14 on the west side of the     Right side of Stamper Street       South
semi-circle loop
Intersection of Summit Street and  Right side of East Street          North
East Street
Intersection of Superior Street    Right side of Superior Street      West
and Huddleston Street
Intersection of Terrace Drive and
SR #14 on the east side of the     Right side of Terrace Drive        North
semi-circle loop
Intersection of Terrace Drive and
SR #14 on the west side of the     Right side of Terrace Drive        North
semi-circle loop
Intersection of US South #35 and   Right side of 50 N                 East
50 N
Intersection of Washington Street  Right side of Washington Street    East
and 50 W
Intersection of Washington Street  Right side of Burson Street        North
and Burson Street
Intersection of Washington Street  Right side of Logan Street         North
and Logan Street
 
   (D)   Three-way stop intersections.
 
Street/Intersection               Location                        Direction
Intersection of Burson Street and Right side of Burson Street     North
Huddleston Street                 Right side of Burson Street     South
                                  Right side of Huddleston Street East
 
(`94 Code, § 4-1-1) (Am. Ord. 6, 2001, passed 7-9-2001; Am. Ord. 1, 2002,
passed 2-11-2002; Am. Ord. 15, 2003, passed 12-8-2003; Am. Ord. 2 of 2005,
passed 5-9-2005; Am. Ord. 8 of 2006, passed 11-13-2006; Am. Ord. 5 of 2007,
passed 10-10-2007; Am. Ord. 1 of 2010, passed 6-14-2010; Am. Ord. 5 of 2010,
passed 9-13-2010; Am. Ord. 8 of 2013, passed 6-10-2013; Am. Ord. 15 of 2013,
passed 9-9-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE III. MISCELLANEOUS RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   One-way streets.
      (1)   The south half of Superior Street will be one-way vehicle traffic
with the direction of travel being from west to east starting at Burson Street
and ending at Riverside Drive.
   (B)   Pedestrian/bicycle traffic.
      (1)   The north half of Superior Street will be reserved for two-way
pedestrian/bicycle trafffic starting at Burson Street and ending at Riverside
Drive.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person who violated the provisions of this schedule shall
be fined up to a maximum of $50.
(Ord. 9 of 2012, passed 8-13-2012)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Section
   
I.   No parking
   
II.   No parking 6:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
   
III.   No parking from 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. and from 2:00 p.m to 4:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday
   
IV.   Two-hour parking limit from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday
   
V.   Restricted parking
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator or any person driving a motor
vehicle to stop, stand or park the motor vehicle in any of the restricted
locations below.
Street Location/Restriction Direction Ord. No. Date Passed
Street            Location/Restriction         Direction Ord. No.   Date Passed
                  West from its intersection
11th Street       with Riverside Drive to its  North     17 of 2013 11-11-2013
                  intersection with Monticello
                  Street
                  North from its intersection
                  with Main Street to its
Logan Street      intersection with the alley  East      2 of 2007  6-11-2007
                  between Main Street and
                  Pearl Street
                  South for 80 feet from its
Market Street     intersection with Jefferson  West      2 of 2007  6-11-2007
                  Street
                  South from its intersection
Market Street     with Washington Street on    West      2 of 2007  6-11-2007
                  the north and Huron Street
                  on the south
                  East from its intersection
Meridian Street   with Market Street to its    South     2 of 2007  6-11-2007
                  intersection with Monticello
                  Street
                  Within 20 feet of its
Monticello Street intersection with the alley  West      2 of 2007  6-11-2007
                  between Main Street and
                  Pearl Street
                  Between its intersection
Monticello Street with Main Street on the      West      2 of 2007  6-11-2007
                  north and Meridian Street on
                  the south
                  Within 20 feet of its
Monticello Street intersection with Pearl      –       2 of 2007  6-11-2007
                  Street
                  South for 100 feet from its
                  intersection with Meridian
Market Street     Street to a point even with  East      2 of 2007  6-11-2007
                  the side door of the Justice
                  Center
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. NO PARKING 6:00 P.M. TO 6:00 A.M.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator or any person driving a motor
vehicle to stop, stand or park the motor vehicle in any of the restricted
locations below from 6:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
 
Street      Location/Restriction            Direction Ord. No.  Date Passed
            East if its intersection with
            Market Street and west of its   North/
Main Street intersection with alley between South     2 of 2007 6-11-2007
            Monticello Street and Riverside
            Drive
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. NO PARKING FROM 7:00 A.M. TO 9:00 A.M. AND FROM 2:00 P.M TO 4:00
P.M. MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator or any person driving a motor
vehicle to stop, stand or park the motor vehicle in any of the restricted
locations below during the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. to 4:
00 p.m. on Monday through Friday.
Street Location/Restriction Direction Ord. No. Date Passed
Street            Location/Restriction          Direction Ord. No.  Date Passed
                  East of its intersection with
Erie Street       Monticello Street and west of North/    2 of 2007 6-11-2007
                  its intersection with         South
                  Huddleston Road
                  East of its intersection with
Huddleston Street Monticello Street and west of North/    2 of 2007 6-11-2007
                  its intersection with         South
                  Huddleston Road
                  South if its intersection
Huddleston Road   with Rowan Street and north   East/West 2 of 2007 6-11-2007
                  of its intersection with
                  Monticello Street
                  East of its intersection with
Huron Street      Monticello Street and west of North/    2 of 2007 6-11-2007
                  its intersection with         South
                  Huddleston Road
                  South of its intersection
Monticello Street with Washington Street and    East/West 2 of 2007 6-11-2007
                  north of its intersection
                  with Huddleston Road
                  South of its intersection
Riverside Drive   with Washington Street and    East/West 2 of 2007 6-11-2007
                  north of its intersection
                  with Huddleston Road
                  East of its intersection with
Rowan Street      Monticello Street and west of North/    2 of 2007 6-11-2007
                  its intersection with         South
                  Huddleston Road
Shady Lane        East of its intersection with North/    2 of 2007 6-11-2007
                  Huddleston Road               South
                  East of its intersection with
Superior Street   Monticello Street and west of North/    2 of 2007 6-11-2007
                  its intersection with         South
                  Huddleston Road
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. TWO-HOUR PARKING FROM 8:00 A.M. TO 5:00 P.M MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator or any person driving a motor
vehicle to stop, stand or park the motor vehicle in any of the restricted
locations below for more than two hours during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00
p.m. on Monday through Friday.
 
Street     Location/Restriction                                             Direction Ord. Date
                                                                                      No.  Passed
Logan      Beginning at its intersection with the alley between Main Street           2 of 6-11-
Street     and Pearl Street and going north to its intersection with Pearl  East      2007 2007
           Street
Logan      Beginning 80 feet north of its intersection with Main Street and West      2 of 6-11-
Street     south of its intersection with Pearl Street                                2007 2007
Main       East of its intersection with Logan Street and west of its       North/    2 of 6-11-
Street     intersection with the alley between Monticello Street and        South     2007 2007
           Riverside Drive
Market     North of its intersection with Meridian Street and south of its  East/West 2 of 6-11-
Street     intersection with the alley between Pearl and Spring Streets               2007 2007
Monticello North of its intersection with Meridian Street and south of its            2 of 6-11-
Street     intersection with the alley between Pearl and Spring Streets     East/West 2007 2007
           except for those areas denoted as “No Parking” in Schedule I
Pearl      East of its intersection with Logan Street and west of its       North/    2 of 6-11-
Street     intersection with the alley between Monticello Street and        South     2007 2007
           Riverside Drive
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. RESTRICTED PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator or any person, except for
Winamac Volunteer Fire Department members, driving a motor vehicle to stop,
stand or park the motor vehicle in any of the restricted locations below.
 
Street       Location/Restriction             Direction Ord. No.   Date Passed
Logan Street Going north for 80 feet from its West      4A of 2008 5-12-2008
             intersection with Main Street
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   CEMETERIES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   TREES; VEGETATION
      
95.   NOISE
      
96.   FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
      
97.   ANIMALS
      
98.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
99.   DISCRIMINATION
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Definition
   
90.02   Tagging vehicles; reports
   
90.03   Value of vehicle; immediate disposal
   
90.04   Liability for cost
§ 90.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLES.
      (1)   A vehicle or parts located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle or parts left on public property without being moved for
three days;
      (3)   A vehicle or parts located on public property in a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle or part that has remained on private property without the
consent of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48
hours;
      (5)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or an ordinance other
than this chapter if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the
owner or the owner’s agent within 20 days after the vehicle's removal; or
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, is mechanically
inoperable and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days.
(Ord. 11, 1997, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 90.02 TAGGING VEHICLES; REPORTS.
   (A)   An officer who finds or is notified of a vehicle or parts believed to
be abandoned shall attach, in a prominent place, a notice tag containing the
following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer’s name, department and address and phone
number to contact for information;
      (2)   The vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (3)   The vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours;
      (4)   The person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all
costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle; and
      (5)   The person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of the
vehicle or parts within 72 hours.
   (B)   If a vehicle or part tagged, as set out above, is not removed within
the 72-hour period, the office shall prepare a written abandoned vehicle report
of the vehicle or parts, including information on the condition, missing parts
and other facts that might substantiate the estimated market value of the
vehicle or parts and shall photograph the vehicle or parts.
   (C)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of an abandoned
vehicle or parts is determined to be less than $500, the officer shall
immediately dispose of the vehicle to an automobile scrap yard.
   (D)   If in the opinion of the officer the market value of an abandoned
vehicle or parts is determined to be at least $500, the officer shall, before
placing a tag on the vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to
ascertain the person who owns the vehicle or parts or who may be in control of
the vehicle or parts. After 72 hours, the officer shall require the vehicle or
parts to be towed to a storage area.
   (E)   (1)   Within 72 hours of removal of a vehicle under division (D)
above, the officer shall prepare and forward to the Bureau of Motor Vehicles an
abandoned vehicle report containing a description of the vehicle, including the
following information:
         (a)   The make;
         (b)   The model;
         (c)   The identification number; and
         (d)   The number of the license plate.
      (2)   The officer shall request the Bureau of Motor Vehicles to advise
the name and most recent address of the person who owns or holds a lien on the
vehicle.
   (F)   The officer shall follow the provisions of I.C. 9-22-1-1 et seq. in
disposing of any vehicle or parts tagged or stored under division (D) above.
   (G)   The Police Department shall retain the original records and
photographs on each vehicle found to be abandoned for at least two years.
(Ord. 11, 1997, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 90.03 VALUE OF VEHICLE; IMMEDIATELY DISPOSED.
   This chapter establishes $500 as the market value below which an officer may
dispose of a vehicle or parts immediately hereunder.
(Ord. 11, 1997, passed 9-8-1997)
§ 90.04 LIABILITY FOR COST.
   (A)   The owner of a vehicle or parts found to be abandoned, as described
above, shall be liable for all expenses associated with the tagging, removal
and storage of the vehicle or parts and no vehicle shall be released unless and
until the costs are paid in full.
   (B)   In accordance with I.C. 9-22-1-32, neither the officer nor the town
shall be liable for any loss or damage to a vehicle or parts occurring during
the removal, storage or disposition of any vehicle or parts under this chapter.
(Ord. 11, 1997, passed 9-8-1997)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Spitting
Nuisances on Private Property
   
91.10   Definitions
   
91.11   Application of subchapter
   
91.12   Prohibited activity and determination
   
91.13   Failure to abate after notice of abatement by town
Cross-reference:
   Barking dogs, see §
97.02
   Trees; vegetation, see §
94.10
   Window panes or lights; destruction and the like, see §
130.05
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 SPITTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to expectorate or spit tobacco juice
upon the sidewalks of the town and the town is instructed to arrest and bring
before the Clerk-Treasurer anyone detected in the act of so spitting the
tobacco juice and the person shall be fined in any sum as set by Town Council.
(`94 Code, § 6-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
NUISANCES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 91.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PUBLIC NUISANCE.
      (1)   Vegetation on private or governmental property that is abandoned,
neglected, disregarded or not cut, mown, or otherwise removed and that has
attained a height of eight inches or more;
      (2)   Vegetation, trees, or woody growth on private property that, due to
its proximity to any governmental property, right-of-way, or easement,
interferes with the public safety or lawful use of the governmental property,
right-of-way or easement, or that has been allowed to become a health or safety
hazard;
      (3)   A drainage or stormwater management facility, on private or
governmental property, which facility has not been maintained;
      (4)   Private property that has accumulated litter or waste products,
whether it be organic waste, lumber or other material, excluding building
material for new construction, or any other unsightly inorganic material,
unless specifically authorized under existing laws and regulations, that has
otherwise been allowed to become a health or safety hazard;
      (5)   Sanitation, recyclable material, or other garbage or refuse, not
placed in the designated town or other privately provided disposal bins for
pick-up.
   EXCLUDED PROPERTY.
      (1)   Cultivated land in commercial, domestic, agriculture or
horticulture use;
      (2)   An existing natural or developed forest that does not create a
health or safety hazard;
      (3)   A wetland area designated by the United States Department of
Interior Fish and Wildlife Division on a National Wetlands Inventory Map and/or
determined to be a wetland area by the State of Indiana.
   GOVERNMENTAL PROPERTY. Real estate that is owned leased, controlled, or
occupied by the United States, the State of Indiana, or any political
subdivision thereof.
   OCCUPANT. The person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, business
trust, joint stock company, unincorporated organization, religious charitable
organization, or entity who is from time to time in possession or exercising
dominion and control over the real estate or any house or other structure
located thereon. OCCUPANT shall include the lessee of the property.
   OWNER. The record owner or owners, as reflected by the most current records
in the County Assessor's Office.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY or PROPERTY. All real estate within the town's corporate
limits, except governmental property.
   RECIPIENT. The owner or occupant to whom notice of violation has been
directed.
   REPEAT VIOLATION. When a property owner or occupant, who has previously been
issued notice of a similar environmental public nuisance for the same property,
or who has been found by a hearing or judicial officer to have allowed a
similar environmental public nuisance to exist at that property within 18
months of the date of the previous notice or finding of violation, whichever is
later.
(Ord. 4 of 2018, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 91.11 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Governmental property. Each department or agency of the United States,
the State of Indiana, or the Town of Winamac, or other political subdivision
thereof, shall be required to keep governmental property within the town free
from environmental public nuisance.
   (B)   Private property. All owners, occupants, or other persons in control
of any private property within the town, shall be require to keep governmental
property within the town free from environmental public nuisance.
(Ord. 4 of 2018, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 91.12 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY AND DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any property owner or occupant
to allow an environmental public nuisance to exist. This provision shall not
apply to excluded property.
   (B)   Determination of violation. If the town, or any agent of the town,
receives a complaint regarding an environmental public nuisance on any property
within the town boundaries, said agent or town employee shall forward that
complaint to the Town Council, who shall make a record of, and assign a case
number to, such complaint. An authorized individual shall visually inspect the
property in question.
   (C)   Notice of violation. Notice of violation described in division (B)
above shall be issued either by personal service, or by first class United
States mail, postage prepaid. Such notice shall state the nature of the alleged
environmental public nuisance and the action deemed necessary to correct the
condition, and shall fix a date not sooner than ten days from the date of the
notice for vegetation of a height of eight inches or more, and 21 days from the
date of the notice for all other violations under this subchapter, when the
property will be reinspected. The notice shall inform the recipient that, if
the condition is not corrected upon reinspection, the Town Council has the
right to enter upon the property to abate or correct the condition and bill the
recipient for costs incurred in so doing. A notice to the occupant at the real
estate or to the owner at the address to which property tax statements are sent
as these addresses are shown by the most current records in the County
Assessor's office, shall be sufficient notice under this division.
   (D)   Correction upon reinspection. If, upon reinspection, it is determined
that the environmental public nuisance has been corrected, the recipient shall
not be liable for any charges under this subchapter.
(Ord. 4 of 2018, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 91.13 FAILURE TO ABATE AFTER NOTICE OF ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   (A)   Abatement by town. If, upon reinspection, it is determined by the
authorized individual that abatement has not occurred, or if vegetation of a
height of eight inches or more is present on a property in the same calendar
year in which the town previously abated a violation of a similar nature on
that property, then the Town Council, or its designee, may enter upon the
premises and abate the environmental public nuisance. The recipient shall be
liable for the costs of abatement. After abatement is completed, the department
shall, either by personal service or first class United States mail, postage
prepaid, send the recipient a bill for the costs of abatement.
   (B)   Responsibility of occupant or owner for costs of abatement. As
reimbursement to the town for its costs, the recipient shall, within ten days
of the date of the bill, pay to the town the following fees and charges:
      (1)   Any disposal fees actually incurred to dispose of litter and waste
products removed;
      (2)   Any other reasonable fees actually incurred in abating an
environmental nuisance; and
      (3)   Administrative, labor and equipment fees may be changed or
established by ordinance or amendment, as necessary to assure that such fees
are adequate to reimburse the town.
   (C)   Hearing. A recipient may request in writing an informal hearing before
the Town Council, to dispute the existence of a violation and/or the accuracy
of all or part of the costs of abatement billed. Upon receipt of a hearing
request, the Town Council shall not take abatement action until after the Town
Council notifies the recipient of his or her decision. After such hearing, the
Town Council, shall determine the existence of a violation and/or the accuracy
of all or part of the abatement costs billed and shall notify the recipient of
any amounts due to the department. The decision of the town shall be final.
   (D)   Civil action to recover costs of abatement. Upon the failure of the
recipient who was sent the notice of violation and bill to pay the appropriate
fees and charges within the ten-day period, the Town Council may bring a civil
action in court against such recipient to recover the amount billed, plus
reasonable attorney's fees and court costs.
   (E)   Further penalty. Any owner or occupant found in violation of this
subchapter may be fined not more than $100 for each violation. Each day such
violation is permitted to continue shall constitute a separate violation. A
previous violation may be considered in determining the penalty assessed. A
finding that a violation has occurred or an admission that a violation has
occurred is not required to assess and recover a penalty, if the recipient
subject to the penalty agrees to pay the penalty, pursuant to either an agreed
judgment or consent decree in a court action for an ordinance violation.
      (1)   A recipient may be fined not more than $250 for each repeat
violation. Each day such repeat violation is permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate violation under this division.
      (2)   The town may publish a list of the names of owners and occupants
who have been cited for a repeat violation under this subchapter, and the
addresses of the affected properties. The Town Council shall determine the
frequency of publication.
   (F)   Variance. An owner or occupant may submit a written request for a
variance to the Town Council, if compliance with this chapter will cause undue
hardship to such owner or occupant without a sufficient corresponding benefit
to the health or safety of the public. To receive consideration, such request
must be received prior to the time the town abates the environmental nuisance
on the property. Upon receipt of a request, the Town Council shall schedule a
hearing and notify the owner or occupant of the time and place. At least ten
days prior to the hearing, the owner or occupant shall notify in writing the
owners and occupants of all property within 150 feet of the property for which
the variance is requested. The notice shall state the location of the property
for which the variance is requested, the nature of the variance requested, and
the time and place of the hearing. At the hearing, the owner or occupant
requesting the variance, representatives of the town, representatives of state
or local governmental health authorities, and any person affected by the
proposed variance may present evidence. After the hearing, the Town Council may
grant or deny the request. The decision of the Board shall be final. Within ten
days of the decision, written notice of the Town Council's decision shall be
given to the owner or occupant who requested the variance.
   (G)   Other rules and regulations. The Town Council may, by resolution,
promulgate rules and regulations necessary to implement and carry out the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 4 of 2018, passed 6-11-2018)
CHAPTER 92: CEMETERIES
Section
   
92.01   No designation of ground
   
92.02   Selling lots and the like prohibited
   
92.03    Winamac Municipal Cemetery
§ 92.01 NO DESIGNATION OF GROUND.
   No ground for burial or cemetery purposes shall be designated, laid out,
platted or lots or parcels sold therein, within the corporate limits of the
town, by any person, persons, association or corporation unless and until
permission and consent so to do has first been obtained from the Town Council.
(`94 Code, § 1-1)
§ 92.02 SELLING LOTS AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   No lot or parcel of ground shall be sold or bartered by any person, firm,
corporation or association for burial purposes, public or private, within the
corporate limits of the town, unless and until a proper maintenance fund
therefor has been provided and levied, to the approval and acceptance of the
Town Council.
(`94 Code, § 1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 WINAMAC MUNICIPAL CEMETERY.
   (A)   Rules and regulations. The Town Council shall adopt rules and
regulations for the Winamac Municipal Cemetery. The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the
Cemetery Sexton and hereby enforces the rules and regulations regarding the
Winamac Municipal Cemetery. The Town Manager shall assist the Clerk-Treasurer
in any capacity as requested.
      (1)   Cemetery area. The Winamac Municipal Cemetery is located at 414 S
50 W. It consists of the Winamac Cemetery, the Byram T. Lane Addition, the
Spangler Family Additions, the Moses and Amanda Dilts Addition (Crown Hill),
the Southlawn Addition, the Poor Addition, the Bridegroom Addition, the New
Town Addition, the McKinley Memorial Gardens Addition, and the McFarland
Addition.
      (2)   Cemetery care, maintenance, monuments and contractor duty. Each lot
or part thereof in the Winamac Municipal Cemetery shall be, and hereby is,
subject to the following conditions and limitations with the privileges
specified as follows.
         (a)   As used herein, the term MONUMENT means any head or grave
identification of bronze, granite, marble, stone and the like. Any other man-
made object placed on a grave or lot shall be construed as a MARKER.
         (b)   Before any monument/foundations (footings) are constructed and/
or markers placed, the contractor constructing the monument/foundation
(footings) or placing the marker shall first submit a foundation application
permit to be approved by the Cemetery Sexton.
         (c)   No markers, concrete aprons, flowers vases, footings, or
planting of any nature whatsoever shall be set or installed until the approval
of the Cemetery Sexton has been given consistent with the terms hereof.
         (d)   All monument/foundations shall be constructed of concrete and
shall extend a minimum of 36 inches below grade, shall extend the width of the
grave space and 24 inches front to back. All four sides shall be straight and
vertical, all aprons shall be flush with the ground and two feet front to back.
No foundation shall be poured until inspection has been approved by the town.
Failure to have a footer inspected may result in it being removed.
         (e)   All monuments shall be placed at the head end of the grave.
Small bronze VA plaques and VA medallions may be mounted on the headstone.
         (f)   The columbarium located in the McFarland Addition will only have
openings and closings performed by a representative from Patton Monuments.
         (g)   There shall be no aboveground monument placed in the McKinley
Addition Garden of Devotion and Garden of Memories. Only flat grave markers are
to be placed level with the ground.
         (h)   Not more than one monument shall be permitted on any one grave.
The monument shall be erected only upon a concrete footing. A double monument
shall be permitted when centered upon two graves for a couple buried within.
         (i)   All artificial flower arrangements must either be mounted to the
monument or marker, or placed in metal or concrete containers. The cemetery
will be cleared of flowers and ornamentations twice a year. The dates for
removal shall be the Thursday before Good Friday and the Friday before Columbus
Day. For two weeks prior to cleaning, the dates will be advertised in the local
newspaper and listed on the town website, www.townofwinamac.com. The town, Town
Council, the Clerk-Treasurer, and those associated with the care and
maintenance of the cemetery are not liable for any loss or destruction of
flowers, vases, grave markers, or monuments, and the like because of vandalism
or an act of God. All vandalism shall be reported to the Police Department.
Vandals of cemetery property may be prosecuted.
         (j)   Ornaments that constitute nuisances to the proper maintenance of
the cemetery grounds may be removed by authorized personnel of the cemetery.
Such ornaments include, but are not limited to: plastic animals, plastic
fences, plastic flowers, plastic lawn ornaments, wire baskets and urns, glass
ornaments or containers, or any such materials that could cause personal injury
or damage if thrown from mowing equipment.
         (k)   No live plants, bushes, shrubs, trees, and the like shall be
planted in the cemetery, nor shall any landscaping be performed around the
grave, unless approved by the Cemetery Sexton. Cemetery personnel shall have
the right to remove any plantings deemed in violation or any shrubs left to
grow rampant.
         (l)   The funeral home in charge of arrangements shall mark the grave
with a temporary marker.
         (m)   The town shall be responsible for the care and maintenance of
the cemetery. All mowing, landscaping, grading of lots, driveway care, snow
removal, and the like shall be done under the direction of the Clerk-Treasurer
and Town Manager.
         (n)   The grantee, their heirs, successors and assigns, are herby
given a perpetual right to the free use of the passageways of the entire
cemetery, together with the right to use the other facilities that are now or
may hereafter be erected in the cemetery for use by owners of burial rights
within the cemetery or the general public, provided that any user thereof shall
do so as to not interfere with the rights of other owners of burial rights
therein, and consistent with the rules and regulations now or hereafter adopted
respecting the maintenance, operation and control of the cemetery.
         (o)   No one under the age of 18 shall be allowed in the cemetery from
7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. unless accompanied by an adult.
         (p)   Funeral processions shall have priority over any activities
while on cemetery grounds. In the event of a funeral, drives must be kept clear
and unobstructed for the procession. When informed by town officials to move
vehicles, visitors to the cemetery shall immediately move them to an area that
will not interfere with the funeral procession.
         (q)   There shall be no parking or driving of unauthorized vehicles on
cemetery grounds except on gravel/blacktop lanes as provided. Visitors to the
cemetery shall respectfully keep their vehicles on provided lanes at all times.
         (r)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer (Cemetery Sexton) shall designate who
is allowed to dig graves in the cemetery. No digging is allowed on cemetery
property without the expressed permission and signed application of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
         (s)   When any work is being completed in the Winamac Cemetery by
contractors, their respect of citizens and visitors shall be held to a high
standard. Professional appearance and conduct shall be always expected.
         (t)   A copy of the contractor certificate of liability insurance
shall be provided to the Town Manager once per year, before any work can be
completed.
      (3)   Pauper section and indigent burial policy.
         (a)   It shall be the policy of the Winamac Municipal Cemetery to
furnish without a charge a grave site for a deceased indigent person who was a
resident of Winamac at the time of death or a former resident who was residing
in a health care facility at the time of death. Interested parties with any
questions should consult the Cemetery Sexton.
         (b)   The Clerk-Treasurer has designated specific areas within the
cemetery for pauper graves. No monument shall be erected and no improvements
shall be made on any cemetery space that has not been paid in full.
         (c)   If the heirs of a recipient of a pauper grave decide that they
want to place a stone, the space must first be paid for, and then only a flat
marker that is flush with the ground will be permitted.
      (4)   Burial of human remains and burial of cremated remains.
         (a)   Prior to any burial, the funeral home in charge of arrangements
shall secure from the Health Department, an Indiana Burial Transit Permit.
Permission for burial may be reasonably withheld by the Clerk-Treasurer,
pending compliance with cemetery rules and regulations, as well as compliance
with state and local laws.
         (b)   The cemetery copy (yellow) of the Indiana Burial Transit Permit
shall be completed by the funeral home in charge of arrangements and sent to
the Clerk-Treasurer as soon as possible. When burying cremated remains, a new
burial permit indicating the cemetery as place of disposition (not the
crematory) is to be completed. All out-of-state burials must be accompanied by
a completed Indiana Burial Transit Permit.
         (c)   Permission for all burials shall be secured by the funeral home
in charge of arrangements, by completing a burial request form from the Clerk-
Treasurer prior to planning any ceremony or services at the cemetery.
Absolutely no ceremony or services for burial will be performed at the cemetery
without a licensed Indiana funeral director present and prior approval of the
Clerk-Treasurer.
         (d)   Burial vaults and urn vaults constructed of concrete are
required for all burials.
         (e)   Burial is restricted to one burial vault per grave or two urn
vaults per grave.
         (f)   Columbarium is restricted to one entombment per niche.
         (g)   Scattering of cremated remains on cemetery property will not be
permitted. There are no exceptions.
         (h)   Aboveground interments shall only be permitted for a monument
specifically designed to hold cremated remains. All other aboveground burials
shall not be permitted until such time as the town provides a mausoleum and/or
columbarium.
         (i)   Burial of any animals shall not be allowed in the Winamac
Cemetery, except as provided by state law.
      (5)   Removal of human remains (disinterment) and removal of cremated
remains (disinurnment).
         (a)   Removal of human remains or cremated remains form the cemetery
will be only in accordance with state law and must be performed under the
direct supervision of a licensed funeral director. The funeral home in charge
of arrangements must secure permission from the Clerk-Treasurer. All permits
must be properly filed by the funeral home in charge of arrangements prior to
disinterment or disinurnment.
         (b)   It shall be the established policy of the town that anyone
wishing to have the remains of a relative disinterred and re-interred at
another location in the Winamac Cemetery or elsewhere, shall contract with a
private firm having the proper equipment and experience to perform this
service. All applicable state laws will be followed. The funeral home providing
this service shall notify the Clerk-Treasurer of its intention to move the
remains and provide all legal and necessary documentation to perform this
service. All services relating to disinterment and/or re-interment shall be
under the direct supervision of a licensed Indiana funeral director and the
Clerk-Treasurer or an assignee. The firm providing the service shall restore
all areas of the cemetery disturbed back to its original condition under the
supervision of the Clerk-Treasurer or an assignee of the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (6)   Sale of cemetery burial rights.
         (a)   Any person purchasing burial rights in the Winamac Cemetery
shall be given a certificate of burial rights executed on behalf of the town.
The Clerk-Treasurer shall collect from the purchaser of burial rights the
current document recording fees as set forth by the Pulaski County Recorder and
shall record the certificate with the Pulaski County Recorder’s Office.
         (b)   A copy of the Winamac Cemetery rules and regulations shall be
provided the purchaser at the time of sale of burial rights. The owner of
burial rights is responsible for complying with the cemetery rules.
            (1)   It shall be understood and agreed that the conditions,
limitations, and provisions as set forth in these rules and regulations
constitute a covenant running with the land and shall be binding upon each
direct or subsequent purchaser by the within procedure.
            (2)   A breach by purchasers or grantees shall entitle the town to
the possession of the burial rights herein conveyed.
            (3)   It is hereby expressly agreed that as a part of the
consideration for the purchase of burial rights in the cemetery shall be sold
and transferred under the same provisions and conditions as herein set out.
            (4)   Any transfer of burial rights, by way of inheritance,
succession or sale, shall be reported to the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Fee schedule. This fee schedule is for the following cemeteries: the
Winamac Cemetery, the Byram T. Lane Addition, the Spangler Family Additions,
the Moses and Amanda Dilts Addition, (Crown Hill), the Southlawn Addition, the
Poor Addition, the Bridegroom Addition, the New Town Addition, the McKinley
Memorial Gardens Addition, and the McFarland Addition.
Grave Plots and Services Fee
Grave Plots and Services                                                Fee
Cemetery Lots
   Cemetery lot, all locations                                       $500
   Columbarium niche                                                 $1,250
Grave Burial, Opening and Closing
   Monday through Friday, with no holidays*                          $750
   Weekends, with no holidays* or Sundays                            $950
Cremation Burial, Opening and Closing
   Monday through Friday, with no holidays*                          $500
   Weekends,, with no holidays* or Sundays                           $700
Cremation Vault Setting                                                 $200
Columbarium Niche, Opening and Closing
   Monday through Friday                                             $350
   Weekends, with no holidays* or Sundays                            $450
Foundation for Monument
   Full foundation per space                                         $550
   Flat section per space                                            $550
Maintenance Fee
Cemetery maintenance fee paid upon time of burial. The cemetery         $500
maintenance fee, accompanied by the Indiana Burial Transit Permit, must
be presented to the Clerk-Treasurer before interment.
*Holidays include: New Year’s Day, Good Friday, Easter, Memorial Day,
Independence Day, Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Eve,
Christmas Day, New Year’s Eve
 
(Ord. 11 of 2019, passed 8-12-2019; Am. Ord. 10 of 2024, passed 6-10-2024; Am.
Ord. 15 of 2024, passed 10-14-2024)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Snow removal; conditions and times
   
93.02   Curbing; construction and costs
   
93.03   Construction of streets, sidewalks and the like
   
93.04   Obstructions of sidewalks
   
93.05   Excavations
   
93.06   Traffic; exceptions for temporary construction
   
93.07   Skateboards
Replacement of Sidewalks
   
93.15   Maintenance of sidewalks
   
93.16   Unsafe sidewalks prohibited
   
93.17   Notice of violation
   
93.18   Notice to town of unsafe sidewalks
   
93.19   Public nuisance declared
   
93.20   Compliance with construction requirements
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Spitting, see §
91.01
   Utility Complex, rent and usage, see §
35.09
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 SNOW REMOVAL; CONDITIONS AND TIMES.
   (A)   Declaration of snow removal condition.
      (1)   When, in the opinion of the Street Department Superintendent and
the Town Manager, the actual or expected precipitation of snow will create
hazardous or dangerous roadway conditions for vehicular or pedestrian traffic,
the Manager shall have authority to declare a snow removal condition.
      (2)   A snow removal condition shall be declared by the Town Manager by
issuing a media release to the local radio and cable television stations.
      (3)   The snow removal condition shall continue in force and effect until
the Town Manager declares it to be over by issuing a media release to the local
radio and cable television stations.
   (B)   Duties of owners/occupants.
      (1)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any public street, way, place, alley, sidewalk,
easement, park, square, median parkway, boulevard or plaza that is dedicated to
public use or maintained by the town except for those rights-of-way owned by
the Indiana Department of Transportation located within the town municipal
limits.
      (2)   Removal of snow or ice.
         (a)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner or the
occupant of the property immediately adjacent to a public walk, public right-
of-way, or fire hydrant to remove from the sidewalk or fire hydrant any snow or
ice which accumulates on such sidewalk or obstructs such sidewalk or fire
hydrant within 48 hours after the ice forms or the snow ceases to fall
thereupon. If the ice accumulation is of such character as to make the removal
thereof impossible, the sprinkling or placement of sand and/or salt thereon
within the time specified for removal in such a manner as to make such sidewalk
safe for pedestrian travel.
         (b)   Hardship exception. A property owner may qualify for a hardship
exception based upon age and/or physical disability. The hardship application
must be completed and submitted to the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s Office by October
31 of each year. The Town Manager or his or her designee shall have the sole
discretion to determine whether or not to grant the exception.
(Ord. 4, 2000, passed 11-27-00; Am. Ord. 11 of 2014, passed 7-14-2014) Penalty,
see §
93.99
§ 93.02 CURBING; CONSTRUCTION AND COSTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CURBS AND GUTTERS. The area immediately adjacent to the improved portion
of the street or highway right-of-way and constructed in accordance with the
Standard Plans for Public Works Construction approved and adopted by the town,
March 12, 2001.
      OWNER. The person or persons who hold the legal title to a parcel of
ground as recorded in the records of the County Recorder’s Office in which the
property is located.
      TOWN. The Town of Winamac, Indiana.
   (B)   (1)   The owner of each parcel of ground adjacent to any street or
highway shall install, repair, replace and maintain curbs and gutters in good
order as directed by the town.
      (2)   All curbs and gutters shall be in accordance with the Standard
Plans for Public Works Construction approved and adopted by the town, March 12,
2001.
      (3)   All curbs and gutters shall be installed, repaired, replaced and/or
maintained as the town shall determine in its discretion.
   (C)   (1)   The costs of installation of curbing and gutters shall be born
by the owner and the town as follows:
         (a)   The town shall be responsible for the materials necessary to
install the curbing and/or gutters.
         (b)   The owner shall be responsible for the costs of labor necessary
to install the curbing and/or gutters.
      (2)   In the event the town shall determine, as part of a project, that a
portion of the streets and highways under its jurisdiction need to have the
curbs and/or gutters repaired, replaced or installed, the town shall notify the
owners of the parcels affected of the plan, shall contract for the repair,
replacement and/or installation of the curbs and/or gutters and, after
determination of the cost for the curbs and gutters, shall assess each owner
the proportionate share of the cost for labor for the repair, replacement and/
or installation according to number of linear feet of curb of the owner's land
to the overall length of the project.
      (3)   In the event that an owner’s share of the cost for installation,
repair or replacement of curbs and/or gutters shall be $200 or less, the owner
shall, within 30 days, pay the assessment in full to the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (4)   In the event that an owner’s share of the cost for installation,
repair or replacement of curbs and/or gutters shall exceed $200, the owner
shall, within 30 days, arrange with the Clerk-Treasurer to pay the assessment
in equal monthly installments over the next ten months.
   (D)   (1)   Any owner who shall desire to repair, replace or install curbs
or gutters along any street or highway under the jurisdiction of the town,
shall file a written application in the Office of the Clerk- Treasurer prior to
commencing any alteration or installation.
      (2)   At the time the written application is filed in the Office of the
Clerk-Treasurer, the owner shall pay a fee of $15, which fee shall be deposited
by the Clerk-Treasurer in a fund to be used for offsetting the costs of
processing the application for the permit and for purchasing the materials for
the curbs and/or gutters.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the application, the town shall provide the owner
with a copy of the Standard Plans for Public Works Construction approved and
adopted by the town, March 12, 2001.
      (4)   Upon installation, repair or replacement of the curbs and/or
gutters, the town shall inspect the curbs and/or gutter to ensure installation,
repair or replacement is done in accordance with the Standard Plans for Public
Works Construction approved and adopted by the town, March 12, 2001.
      (5)   Any installation, repair or replacement of curbs and/or gutters
shall only be done in accordance with specifications, and the owner shall
remove any the curb and/or gutter not installed, repaired or replaced in
accordance with the specifications at the owner’s sole cost for both materials
and labor.
      (6)   In the event that the town shall determine as part of a project
that a portion of the streets and highways under its jurisdiction need to have
the curbs and/or gutters repaired, replaced or installed, the town may waive
the permit fee required in this section for the owners affected by the project.
(Ord. 7 of 1996, passed 8-12-96; Am. Ord. 5 of 2008, passed 5-12-2008)
§ 93.03 CONSTRUCTION OF STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   A building permit will be required for all appurtenances constructed
within the street and road rights-of-way within the town. The building permit
application can be purchased for $15 at the Clerk- Treasurer’s Office.
   (B)   All appurtenances constructed within the street and road rights-of-way
shall be made in conformity with the provisions and the grades, plans, profiles
and specifications furnished by the Clerk- Treasurer and on file in the office
as adopted and approved by the Town Council. A copy of these standards,
“Standard Plans for Public Works Construction,” is available for copying fee of
$5.
   (C)   A detailed plan must be submitted and approved by the Town Manager or
his or her designee before construction shall commence. After forms are placed
and before concrete is poured, a 24-hour notice must be given to allow the Town
Manager or his or her designee to make a pre-pour inspection.
   (D)   (1)   After construction is completed and before the town will accept
the work, it shall be inspected by the Town Manager or his or her designee.
      (2)   The construction must meet the specifications as submitted on the
building permit application, and the specifications set forth in “Standard
Plans for Public Works Construction,” as adopted and amended by the Town
Council. The cost for the final inspection shall be $25.
   (E)   It will be the permittee’s responsibility to see that all extra dirt
and other material that is removed in connection with the project is disposed
of according to local, state and federal regulations.
   (F)   It shall be the permittee’s responsibility and the permittee’s cost to
remedy any and all discrepancies found during final inspection between the
actual construction and the details submitted on the building permit
application and/or the specifications set forth in the “Standard Plans for
Public Works Construction,” as adopted and amended by the Town Council. All
corrections must be made within 30 days or the permittee shall be found in
violation of this section.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to tamper with or in
any way interfere with any grade stake for any public works project, or to
deface or disturb any project while in process of construction, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined according to the penalty provided herein.
   (H)   In the event a lawsuit is commenced to abate violations or to assess a
fine against a person and the person is found to have failed to remedy a
violation, the person shall be responsible and liable for all costs of the
action, including but not limited to costs and expenses of remedying the
violation, costs of suit, expenses and reasonable attorney fees incurred by the
town in bringing the action.
(Ord. 3, 2001, passed 3-12-2001) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 OBSTRUCTIONS OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owners of lots or parts of lots within the
town to keep the sidewalks in front of the lots or part of lots at all times
free from rubbish and obstructions and to remove the snow from the walks as
soon after it falls as practicable. Any person offending against the provisions
of this section shall forfeit and pay to the town the sum as set by Council for
every day the accumulation of rubbish or snow shall be suffered to remain on
the sidewalks.
   (B)   No person shall deposit and allow to remain on any sidewalk in the
town any wood, coal, lumber or any barrels, box or any merchandise whatever,
and any person so offending shall forfeit and pay to the town the sum as set by
Town Council for every hour the offending material or goods shall be allowed to
remain thereon, after the first hour but in no case shall the goods or other
article be so placed as to entirely obstruct any sidewalk. This section shall
not apply to persons building upon or improving the property or in building or
repairing any sidewalk or fence.
   (C)   Before obstructing the sidewalk, the person shall obtain a permit from
the Committee.
   (D)   No person shall place in any street any rubbish, ashes, brush or any
slop, filth or dead animal or decayed vegetable or the rind or refuse of any
vegetable or permit any filth of any kind whatever and persons offending
against the provisions of this section shall forfeit and pay to the town the
sum as set by Council.
   (E)   Any person contemplating the erection of any building or desiring to
occupy any sidewalk or part of any street in the town for the deposit of any
material for the building shall apply to the Street Commissioner for the same
who may grant the permit, but the permit shall not extend beyond a reasonable
time for the completion of the building. The permit shall not extend to more
than one-half the width of the street and whenever obstructions are placed in
the street or upon or across the sidewalk shall cause a red light to be
displayed over the obstruction so long as the same shall remain.
(`94 Code, § 8-1-1) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to make any excavation
on any of the streets within the incorporated town for the purpose of laying
water pipe or any other purpose, without first receiving a written permit
therefor from Winamac Tree Committee.
   (B)   Any person receiving a written permit as provided for herein shall be
required to make an excavation in a good workmanlike manner, safely guard the
same as to prevent any injury to persons using the street and shall promptly
fill the excavation by properly tamping the dirt and, where the streets are
macadamized, by properly tamping stone also so that when completed that the
surface shall be on a level with the grade line of the street the same as it
was before the excavation was made.
(`94 Code, § 8-2-1; Am. Ord. 3 of 2015, passed 6-15-2015; Am. Ord. 4 of 2016,
passed 4-11-2016)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 TRAFFIC; EXCEPTIONS FOR TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Any person, association, firm or corporation may apply to the town for
a permit requesting permission to use any street or a portion thereof for a
purpose not inconsistent with the use thereof by the general public, but which
use is an exception to the ordinary use by the public.
   (B)   An application shall be made in writing, addressed to the town and
shall state the purposes for the request. The application shall designate the
street or streets or portions thereof where parking privileges may be affected
and shall state for what period of time and the number of parking spaces
needed. The application shall be made at least 24 hours before the temporary
use of any street shall be contemplated.
   (C)   The town shall investigate the application and the purpose for which
the street, streets or portion thereof shall be used. The town shall grant the
application if, in his or her judgment, the application is in proper form and
the purpose for the use is consistent with public use. The town may authorize
the use of the street, streets or portion thereof and shall authorize the use
of proper signs or the use of a police officer or officers for the direction of
traffic and the stopping and standing of motor vehicles.
   (D)   Each application shall be accompanied with a fee of $2.50 or unless
waived by the Clerk- Treasurer.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate this section and upon
conviction for any violation hereof the person found guilty shall be fined in
any sum for each violation.
(`94 Code, § 8-2-2) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 SKATEBOARDS.
   (A)   Definition.
      SKATEBOARD. An item consisting of a short, oblong board with a pair of
small wheels at each end, ridden on a hard surface such as a floor, sidewalk,
street, or the like.
   (B)   Compliance required. No person shall ride a skateboard within the town
without complying with this section and any and all other applicable ordinances
and statutes.
      (1)   Yielding to pedestrians. Whenever any person is riding a skateboard
upon a sidewalk or other paved surface intended for use by pedestrians, such
person shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian and shall not approach,
overtake or pass such pedestrian in a reckless or careless manner, nor pass
such pedestrian except in single file if such person riding a skateboard with
other such riders.
      (2)   Riding on certain devices or structures. No person shall skateboard
on any public bench, table, planter wall, retaining wall, playground equipment,
picnic tables, or other device or structure which is not intended for
pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or jump or step on or off such devices or
structures in the process of riding a skateboard. No person shall skateboard on
any steps or handicapped ramps.
      (3)   Reckless or dangerous riding. No person shall skateboard on any
sidewalk or other paved surface intended for pedestrian use or for the parking
of vehicles in a reckless or careless manner, nor in a manner which is likely
to result in injury or harm to any person or property.
      (4)   Riding on private property without permission. No person shall ride
a skateboard on private property without first obtaining permission of the
owner of said property to allow such skating or riding.
      (5)   Riding while attached to vehicles. No person shall ride a
skateboard while either the skateboard or the person is attached to any
vehicle.
      (6)   Prohibitions on public streets and in the downtown area. No person
shall ride a skateboard on public streets except at cross walks. No person
shall ride a skateboard on public sidewalks on Pearl Street, Main Street
between Logan Street and Riverside Drive, Meridian Street, Monticello Street
between Jefferson Street and Pearl Street, Market Street between Pearl Street
and Jefferson Street, and Logan Street between Jefferson Street and Pearl
Street.
      (7)   Restrictions on use. No person shall ride a skate board in any
position other than standing on the board.
      (8)   Prohibition of ramps and incline devices. No person shall
construct, establish, maintain, use or place a ramp or other incline device to
be used for skateboarding upon any public sidewalk or roadway of a street in
the town.
(Ord. 3 of 2004, passed 7-12-2004) Penalty, see §
93.99
REPLACEMENT OF SIDEWALKS
§ 93.15 MAINTENANCE OF SIDEWALKS.
   The owner of any dwelling, building, subdivided lot or property shall be
responsible for maintaining in good condition and repair the sidewalk in front
of, alongside, and/or behind the property of the owner.
(Ord. 8, 2002, passed 11-12-2002) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.16 UNSAFE SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The owner of property shall not allow a sidewalk on the property of
the owner to become unsafe or to be placed in disrepair as a result of
cracking, settling, or other deterioration.
   (B)   An UNSAFE SIDEWALK is defined as a section of sidewalk that is settled
or pushed up so as to be uneven, or cracked or chipped, which circumstance
creates the hazard of tripping or falling.
(Ord. 8, 2002, passed 11-12-2002) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.17 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   If the Town Manager, or his or her designee, determines that the owner of
the property has allowed the sidewalk to become unsafe or to be in disrepair,
the Town Manager or designees shall notify the owner, in writing, that the
owner shall have 30 days in which to correct the unsafe condition or place the
property in good order and repair.
(Ord. 8, 2002, passed 11-12-2002) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.18 NOTICE TO TOWN OF UNSAFE SIDEWALKS.
   If a sidewalk becomes unsafe or is in a state of disrepair, the property
owner shall promptly notify the town, in writing, of the place and condition of
the sidewalk.
(Ord. 8, 2002, passed 11-12-2002) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.19 PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   An unsafe sidewalk or a sidewalk in disrepair shall be deemed a public
nuisance, and the town shall have the right to bring an action in a court of
competent jurisdiction against the owner for the abatement of the public
nuisance and for all other equitable and legal relief.
(Ord. 8, 2002, passed 11-12-2002)
§ 93.20 COMPLIANCE WITH CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   All sidewalks are to be constructed in compliance with §
93.03 of this chapter.
(Ord. 8, 2002, passed 11-12-2002) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of §
93.01(B) shall be subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $100.
Each day that such violation shall occur shall constitute a separate violation
for which the person shall be subject to a fine. The fine is to be paid to the
Town Clerk-Treasurer’s Office.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §
93.07 may have their skateboard impounded by a police officer. Upon impoundment
of any skateboard as provided herein, the owner or operator of such device
shall be issued a receipt. The receipt shall state the hours, location, time
frame and manner for claiming the impounded skateboard as provided in divisions
(B)(2) and (3) below.
      (2)   Upon presentation of the receipt, the owner may claim the impounded
skateboard at the Police Department during business hours. If the owner is a
minor, such owner may only claim the impounded skateboard if accompanied by a
parent or guardian. No fee may be assessed on the owner, parent or guardian.
      (3)   If the impounded skateboard is not claimed within 60 days after the
date of impoundment, the town may dispose of the item(s) by public sale at
auction.
   (C)   In the event a property owner fails to correct the unsafe condition or
fails to place the property in good order and repair within 30 days of the
notice from the Town Manager or designee as set out in §
93.17 of this chapter, or any extended time therefore allowed by the Town
Manager or designee, the owner shall be liable for a fine in the amount of $100
per day for each day following expiration of the 30-day period, or the extended
period, that the unsafe condition or disrepair continues.
   (D)   All other violations of this chapter for which a penalty is not
provided shall be punished according to §
10.99 of this code.
(Ord. 8, 2002, passed 11-12-2002; Am. Ord. 3 of 2004, passed 7-12-2004; Am.
Ord. 11 of 2014, passed 7-14-2014)
CHAPTER 94: TREES; VEGETATION
Section
Trees
   
94.01   Winamac Tree Committee; duties
   
94.02   Street trees
   
94.03   Tree care; regulations
Vegetation
   
94.10   Weeds and rank vegetation
 
   
94.99   Penalty
TREES
§ 94.01 WINAMAC TREE COMMITTEE; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby created and established the Winamac Tree
Committee, which shall consist of five members, citizens and residents of the
town who shall be appointed by the Town Council.
      (2)   The term of the five persons to be appointed by the Town Council
shall be three years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term
of any member, his or her successor shall be appointed for the unexpired
portion of the term.
      (3)   Members of Winamac Tree Committee shall serve without compensation.
   (B)   (1)   Winamac Tree Committee shall serve in an advisory capacity to
the Town Council.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of Winamac Tree Committee to study,
investigate, counsel and develop and/or update annually and administer a
written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, along
streets and in other public areas.
      (3)   Winamac Tree Committee shall present the plan annually to the Town
Council during the month of February of each year and upon acceptance and
approval shall constitute the official comprehensive town tree plan for the
town.
      (4)   Winamac Tree Committee, when requested by the Town Council, shall
consider, investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special
matter of question coming within the scope of its work.
      (5)   Winamac Tree Committee shall choose its own officers, make its own
rules and regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the
members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. 15, 1999, passed 12-13-99; Am. Ord. 7 of 2013, passed 4-8-2013; Am. Ord.
3 of 2015, passed 6- 15-2015; Am. Ord. 4 of 2016, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 94.02 STREET TREES.
   (A)   Street trees are trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation
on land lying between property lines on either side of all streets, highways,
avenues, alleys or ways, or which overhang any streets, highways, avenues,
alleys, sidewalks or ways within the town.
   (B)   The tree lawn is that area of land between a parcel of privately owned
property and any road, street or highway, but which is actually included within
the road, street or highway right-of-way.
   (C)   Winamac Tree Committee shall recommend to the Town Council, which
shall adopt the street tree planting specifications, the official street tree
species for the town. The specifications shall also contain the minimum
distances between the trees and other trees and structures which must be
followed for the planting of any tree under this chapter. The tree planting
specifications may be amended by the Town Council from time to time.
   (D)   No species other than those included in the list may be planted on the
tree lawn without written permission of Winamac Tree Committee.
   (E)   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the tree
planting specifications, and no trees shall be planted closer to another tree
or structure, except as recommended in the specifications, except in special
plantings designed or approved by a landscape architect or forester, and then
approved by Winamac Tree Committee.
(Ord. 15, 1999, passed 12-13-1999; Am. Ord. 3 of 2015, passed 6-5-2015; Am.
Ord. 4 of 2016, passed 4-11-2016)
§ 94.03 TREE CARE; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The town shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and
remove trees, plants and shrubs which are growing in or overhanging the lines
of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be
necessary to ensure public safety of the public grounds.
      (2)   The town shall have the right, and may remove or cause or order to
be removed, any tree, plant or shrub or part thereof located on either public
or private property within the town, which is in an unsafe condition or which
by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas
lines, water lines or other public improvements, or is affected with any
injurious fungus, insect or other pest and which represents a threat to public
safety. Winamac Tree Committee will notify, in writing, the owners of any
trees. Removal shall be done by the owners at their own expense within 60 days
after the date of the notice. In the event or failure the owners to comply with
the provisions, the town shall have the authority to remove the trees at the
expense of the owners and may bring an action to enforce the removal of the
tree in any court in the county. This section does not prohibit the planting of
street trees by adjacent property owners providing that the selection and
location of the trees is in accordance with this chapter.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or
town department to top any street tree or other tree on public property.
Topping is the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches
in diameter within the tree's crown to a degree so as to remove the normal
canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other
causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other
pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from this chapter at the
determination of Winamac Tree Committee.
      (4)   Except as provided herein, every owner of any privately-owned tree
overhanging any street or right-of-way within the town shall prune the branches
so that the branches shall not obstruct the light from any street lamp or
obstruct the view of any street intersection and so that there shall be a clear
space of 15 feet above the surface of any street or alley and a clearance space
of eight feet above the surface of any sidewalk. The owner shall remove all
dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute
a menace to the safety of the public. The town shall have the right to prune or
cause to be pruned, any tree or shrub on the private property when it
interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a street light
or interferes with the visibility of any traffic control device or sign.
      (5)   (a)   Any tree overhanging the right-of-way of any state road
within the town shall be pruned, cut and maintained by the State Department of
Transportation so that no branches shall obstruct the light from any street
lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and so that there shall be
a clear space of 15 feet above the surface of any state highway or right-of-
way.
         (b)   The state shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or
broken or decayed limbs, which constitute a menace to the safety of the public
which overhang any state road or right-of- way, and shall have the right to
prune any tree or shrub which overhangs a state road or right-of-way when it
interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a street light
or interferes with the visibility of any traffic-control device or sign even if
the tree or shrub is on private property.
      (6)   No person shall intentionally carve, cut, damage, transplant or
remove any street tree on the tree lawn.
      (7)   No person shall intentionally attach any wire, nails, advertising
posters or other contrivances to any street tree on the tree lawn.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or
interfere with Winamac Tree Committee, or any of its agents, while engaging in
and about the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of
any street trees or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this chapter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage
professionally in the business or occupation of pruning, treating or removing
street trees within the town without first applying for and procuring a
license.
      (3)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue license to applicants who shall
file evidence of possession of liability insurance in the minimum amounts of
$50,000 for bodily injury and $100,000 property damage indemnifying the town or
any person injured or damaged resulting from the pruning, treating or removing
of street trees and who pays a license fee of $25.
      (4)   No license shall be required of any town employee doing work in
accordance with instructions of his or her supervisor, the Town Manager or the
Town Council.
      (5)   No license shall be required of any public service company doing
the work in the pursuit of their public service endeavors if they present a
plan for pruning or trimming or show evidence of National Arbor or approved
Arborist training.
      (6)   The Town Council shall review the conduct, acts and decisions of
Winamac Tree Committee, and any person may appeal from any ruling or order of
Winamac Tree Committee to the Town Council, who may hear the matter and make
final decision.
(Ord. 15, 1999, passed 12-13-1999; Am. Ord. 3 of 2015, passed 6-5-2015; Am.
Ord. 4 of 2016, passed 4-11-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
VEGETATION
§ 94.10 WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION.
   (A)   Jurisdiction.
      (1)   The jurisdiction of this section shall be the corporate limits of
the town, as presently defined or as may be modified from time to time by
annexation or town ordinance.
      (2)   This section shall be in addition to any state statute or county
ordinances presently in effect, subsequently added, amended or repealed.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the Town Manager, or Town Council
in cases of appeal, on the property owner of the ordinance violation.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property.
   (C)   Weeds and rank vegetation.
      (1)   Definitions.
         (a)   RANK VEGETATION is the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth of
annuals and perennial plants.
         (b)   WEEDS do not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops.
      (2)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants that
have been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
      (3)   The Indiana Cooperative Extension Service shall be the referenced
technical authority for the town executives with respect to the definition of
exempt matters, shrubs, trees, cultivated plants and crops.
   (D)   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like. All property
owners within the corporate limits of the town shall be required and be
financially responsible for the removal, cutting, or disposal and elimination
of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other uncontrolled plant growth on
their property which, at the time of notice, is in excess of ten inches in
average height, and in no event, exceeds 15 inches maximum height on at least
20% of the surface area of the property.
   (E)   Filing complaint. Any person, including the town, who believes there
is property located within the corporate limits of the town which has growing
plant matter in violation of this section shall make a written complaint
signed, dated and filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer. If the town makes the
complaint, an employee, officer or Town Council member shall file the complaint
in all respects as set out above.
   (F)   Notice of violations.
      (1)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in
violation of this section, the Town Manager or his or her designee shall make
an inspection of the property to determine if a violation exists. The Town
Manager, upon concluding that there is a probable belief that this section has
been violated, shall forward written notification in the form of a “Destruction
Order” to the property owner and/or the person occupying the property as that
information is contained within the records of the Town Clerk-Treasurer or any
other town or county agency. The notice shall be served in writing by first-
class mail. The notice shall provide that within seven calendar days after the
receipt of the notice that the designated violation shall be removed by the
property owner and/or person occupying the property.
      (2)   (a)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be
with the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
         (b)   Certified mailing to the Town Clerk-Treasurer or others is
deemed filed on the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
   (G)   Continuous abatement. A continuous abatement notice may be posted at
the property at the time of abatement instead of by first-class mail or
equivalent service as required by division (F) above.. A continuous abatement
notice serves as notice to the real property owner and/or the person occupying
the property that each subsequent violation during the same year for which the
initial notice of the violation was provided may be abated by the municipality
or county, or its contractors.
   (H)   Appeals.
      (1)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of
objections to the Council President within 48 hours of the notice, excluding
weekends and holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the Town
Manager. It is the property owner’s responsibility to demonstrate that the
matter in question is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops or is not
otherwise in violation of this section, and should not be subject to
destruction under this section.
      (2)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the Town
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council members in
attendance and such being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the
Town Council.
   (H)   Abatement by town. In the event that the property owner shall fail to
comply with the “Destruction Order” within seven calendar days and has not
filed a notice within 48 hours to the Town Clerk-Treasurer of an intent to
appeal, the town executives may employ the services of town employees or
outside contractors and remove the weeds to conform to this section by all
lawful means.
   (I)   Liability.
      (1)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds as defined by this section.
      (2)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs
associated with weed destruction, including, but not limited to, court costs,
attorney’s fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the town. If the
town uses municipal employees, it shall set and assign an appropriate per hour
rate for employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals which may be used.
      (3)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and to be deposited in a general fund, as compensation for
expenses and costs incurred by the town.
(Ord. 11 of 2013, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of §
94.10 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $250. Each
day that such violation shall occur shall constitute a separate violation for
which the person shall be subject to a fine. The fine is to be paid to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(Ord. 11 of 2013, passed 7-8-2013)
CHAPTER 95: NOISE
Section
   
95.01   Definition
   
95.02   Loud noises prohibited
   
95.03   Exceptions
   
95.04   Measurement of sound
   
95.05   Application to motor vehicles
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Barking dogs, see §
97.02
§ 95.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Any sound produced by a live performance, radio,
phonograph, television, tape player, compact disc player, loudspeaker or any
other mechanical or electronic sound making or sound amplifying device, or
instrument, that can be clearly heard by a person using his or her normal
hearing faculties, at a distance of 150 feet or more from the source of the
noise or loud sound.
(Ord. 10, 2001, passed - -2001)
§ 95.02 LOUD NOISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall generate, or permit to be generated, noise or loud
sounds which is likely to cause inconvenience or annoyance to persons of
ordinary sensibilities by means of a live performance, radio, phonograph,
television, tape player, compact disc player, loudspeaker or any other sound
amplifying device which is plainly audible at a distance of 150 feet or more
from the source of noise or loud sound.
   (B)   It is prima facie unlawful for a person to generate or permit to be
generated sound by the above described devices or instruments in the following
circumstances:
      (1)   On all property between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. of
the following day in all zoning districts, except industrial districts, as set
forth in the town zoning ordinance, regardless of any existing nonconformance
use or variance, where the sound is plainly audible 150 feet or more from the
source of the sound;
      (2)   On a street, highway, or in the public right-of-way where the sound
is plainly audible 150 feet or more from the source of the sound. Parades are
exempt from the provisions of this section.
   (C)   No person, being the owner, or person in possession of a premises or
person in control of the premises by reason of employment, agency or otherwise,
whether the ownership, possession or control is exclusive or joint, shall
permit a violation of this section.
(Ord. 10, 2001, passed - -2001) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any law enforcement motor
vehicle equipped with any communication device in the performance of law
enforcement duties or to any emergency vehicle equipped with any communication
device necessary in the performance of any emergency procedures. In addition,
the provisions of this chapter do not apply to the noise made by a horn, siren
or other warning device required or permitted by state law, or vehicle alarms.
(Ord. 10, 2001, passed - -2001)
§ 95.04 MEASUREMENT OF SOUND.
   Any law enforcement officer or person who hears a sound that is plainly
audible as defined in this chapter shall be entitled to measure the sound
according to the following standards:
   (A)   The primary means of detection shall be by means of the officer’s or
person’s auditory senses, so long as the officer’s or person’s hearing is not
enhanced by any mechanical device, such as a microphone or hearing aid;
   (B)   The officer or person must have a direct line of sight and hearing to
the source that is producing the sound so that the officer or person can
readily identify the offending person and the distance involved; and
   (C)   The officer or person need not determine the particular words or
phrases being produced or the name of any song or artist producing the sound.
The detection or a rhythmic bass reverberating type sound is sufficient to
constitute plainly audible sound.
(Ord. 10, 2001, passed - -2001)
§ 95.05 APPLICATION TO MOTOR VEHICLES.
   This chapter shall apply to the control of all noise caused by motor
vehicles with a gross vehicle weight less than 8,000 pounds and jake brakes or
similar devices on all vehicles regardless of weight. This includes, but is not
limited to, mufflers, stereo systems, and other noises.
(Ord. 10, 2001, passed - -2001) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person in violation of any of the terms or provisions of this chapter
shall be fined in an amount of not less than $50 nor more than $250. Each day
that a violation shall occur shall constitute a separate violation for which
the person shall be subject to a fine. The fine is to be paid to the Town
Clerk- Treasurer’s Office.
(Ord. 10, 2001, passed - -2001)
CHAPTER 96: FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
Section
Open Burning
   
96.01   Burning leaves and other rubbish
Fireworks
   
96.10   Regulation of consumer fireworks
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fires or fireworks in parks, see
Ch. 98
OPEN BURNING
§ 96.01 BURNING LEAVES AND OTHER RUBBISH.
   (A)   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person to burn or cause to be
burned any leaves, brush or other rubbish within the corporate limits of the
town.
   (B)   No person shall start, kindle, cause, allow, or maintain any form of
leaf burning or wood burning of any kind, on private or public property, except
as specifically authorized by this section.
   (C)   The following types of fires are permitted:
      (1)   Customary burning of logs and other wood products in residential
fireplaces;
      (2)   Burning of charcoal and other food cooking fuels customarily used
in outdoor grills or traditional food cooking devices;
      (3)   Fire celebrating Twelfth Night Ceremony;
      (4)   Fire celebrating school pep rallies;
      (5)   Fire celebrating scouting activities;
      (6)   Fire used for recreational cooking purposes ( i.e., campfires);
   (D)   All burning must be within the guidelines and restrictions of the
Indiana Department of Environmental Management, the provisions of 326 IAC 4-
1 et seq., and I.C. 13-17-9, as amended.
(`94 Code, § 6-2) (Am. Ord. 7 of 2009, passed 7-13-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
FIREWORKS
§ 96.10 REGULATION OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CONSUMER FIREWORKS. As defined by I.C. 22-11-14-1.
   (B)   Days and hours of use. Consumer fireworks may not be used, ignited or
discharged within the corporate limits of the town except during the following
times:
      (1)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on June
29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8 and July 9
of each year;
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4 of
each year; and
      (3)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1 of each year.
   (C)   The use, ignition or discharge of consumer fireworks other than during
the above time periods shall constitute an infraction and shall be subject to a
fine of $100.
(Ord. 6 of 2008, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found in violation of §
96.01 shall be subject to the following procedures:
      (1)   The Police Department personnel shall issue warning notice to a
first time violator stating that he or she is in violation. The person must
then correct the violation by immediately extinguishing the fire. Failure or
refusal to immediately extinguish the fire shall result in a citation then
being issued.
      (2)   Issuance of a citation to the violator shall result in an
imposition of a $50 fine.
      (3)   Failure or refusal by the violator to immediately extinguish the
fire in violation of §
96.01 shall also result in the Fire Department having the authority to go upon
private property to extinguish the fire. Furthermore, in such instances where a
leaf or rubbish fire results in damage of property other than the violator’s,
including damage to public property (e.g., asphalt), or results in injury to
another person, the imminent threat or damage to another party’s property
including public property, that said fire is determined to be caused by
negligence or the willful disregard or violation of §
96.01, a fine of the cost expended by the Town of Winamac to send fire
suppression personnel or equipment to the location shall be assessed with the
fine not to exceed $2,500.
      (4)   Each subsequent starting, kindling, causing or allowing of a new
fire after notice of violation has been issued shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Ord. 7 of 2009, passed 7-13-2009)
CHAPTER 97: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs and Cats
   97.01   Public nuisance
   
97.02   Barking dogs
Other Animals
   
97.10   Keeping livestock
 
   
97.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals in parks, see
Ch. 98
DOGS AND CATS
§ 97.01 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   For purposes of this subchapter, PUBLIC NUISANCE shall mean any act
committed by a dog which constitutes an intrusion of the rights of the public
at large, and shall include, but not be limited to attacking or chasing persons
or other animals; trespassing on school grounds; damaging property of one other
than the owner; roaming at large; running with other animals so as to
constitute a pack of animals, and barking for extended periods.
(Ord. 1 of 2009, passed 2-9-2009)
§ 97.02 BARKING DOGS.
   (A)   No person shall allow the barking, yelping, whining, or howling of a
dog repeatedly for a period of more than five consecutive minutes.
   (B)   A law enforcement officer, or any person summoned and directed to
assist said officer, shall notify the owner, owner’s agent or person in charge
of the dog to abate the nuisance, if the owner, agent or person in charge can
be reasonably located.
   (C)   A person who permits a violation to continue after notice as specified
in division (B) above, shall be issued a citation for such violation.
   (D)   This subchapter does not apply to a law enforcement animals as defined
by I.C. 35-46-3-4.5.
(Ord. 1 of 2009, passed 2-9-2009)
OTHER ANIMALS
§ 97.10 KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK.
   The keeping of all animals or fowl outside the home, with the exception of
dogs and cats, is hereby prohibited within the town.
(`94 Code, § 6-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Feeding animals, see §
130.03
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any person in violation
of any of the terms or provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalty provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person in violation of any of the terms or provisions of
this §
97.02 shall be guilty of an infraction and shall be assessed the following
penalties:
         (a)   For the first offense a person shall be issued a written
warning.
         (b)   For the second violation, a person shall be fined the sum of
$25.00.
         (c)   For a third or subsequent offense, a person shall be fined the
sum of $50.
      (2)   All fines shall be paid to the Winamac Clerk-Treasurer’s Office
within ten days of the issuance of the citation.
      (3)   A person who fails to make payment of any fine hereunder within ten
days of the issuance of the citation may be prosecuted in either the Circuit or
Superior Court and in addition to the fine imposed shall be assessed costs and
attorney fees incurred by the town in enforcing §
97.02.
(Ord. 1 of 2009, passed 2-9-2009)
CHAPTER 98: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
98.01   Park rules
   
98.02   Exemptions
   
98.03   Prohibited persons
   
98.04   Posting of signage
   
98.98   Enforcement
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 PARK RULES.
   The Town Council hereby establishes the following rules for use and conduct
within the park facilities of the town:
   (A)   The park will be closed from 11:00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m. with
exceptions for community events or group functions with prior authorization
from the Town Council.
   (B)   Vehicles shall not park on the basketball courts.
   (C)   No overnight camping is allowed without prior approval from the Town
Council.
   (D)   Any persons or groups using the park facilities are to put their trash
in designated containers or a dumpster.
   (E)   No roller skates, skateboards, or bicycles allowed in the shelters, on
the stage, or on the courts.
   (F)   No off-road vehicles, three- and four-wheelers, off-road motorcycles,
snowmobiles and go-carts are allowed in the park.
   (G)   No person shall build, kindle, maintain or use a fire within any park
or other recreational area in the Town of Winamac unless the person properly
contains such fire in facilities designed for that purpose. Any fire shall be
continuously monitored and under the care and direction of a competent person
from the time it is kindled until it is extinguished.
   (H)   No fireworks are allowed in the park, other than those approved and
supervised by the Town Council for public celebrations such as the Fourth of
July.
   (I)   All noise must be kept to a level so as not to disturb the peace of
adjacent property owners and fellow park users.
   (J)   Loose animals are not allowed on the premises, and all pet owners must
pick up after their animals.
   (K)   No person shall engage in threatening, abusive, insulting, or indecent
language or engage in any conduct or behavior tending to breach the public
peace.
   (L)   No person shall operate any vehicle or bicycle upon roadways within a
park or other recreational area in excess of the speed limit as posted or 15
miles per hour, whichever is less.
   (M)   No person shall operate any motorized vehicle, motorized bicycle,
motorized skateboard or other similar device upon any trail designed for
bicycle/pedestrian use in the Town of Winamac, except if a person with a
disability, as defined by the American With Disabilities Act may operate
specialized motorized equipment designed for their transportation. No person
shall ride a bicycle at an excessive speed or engage in any racing activity
upon any trail designed for bicycle/pedestrian use in the Town of Winamac. In-
line skaters, skate boarders and bicyclist shall yield to pedestrians.
Bicyclist shall yield to all trail users.
   (N)   No littering.
   (O)   No use of metal detectors.
   (P)   No golfing.
   (Q)   No use of park equipment, apparatus, structures and buildings in any
manner inconsistent with their intended purposes.
(Ord. 10 of 2012, passed 8-13-2012; Am. Ord. 10 of 2014, passed 7-14-2014)
Penalty, see §
98.99
Cross-references:
   Animals, see
Ch. 97
   Fires and fireworks, see
Ch. 96
§ 98.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   The Town Council hereby recognizes the following exemptions to the park
rules established in §
98.01:
   (A)   Exemptions to §
98.01(A), park hours:
      (1)   Anyone attending community events, or anyone setting up for or
cleaning up after a community event; or
      (2)   Anyone attending a group function that has written authorization
from the Town Council.
   (B)   Any employee of the town, contractor under contract with the town, or
any agent of the town is exempt from §
98.01(A), (B), (H) and (I) only when performing tasks and duties outlined by
the terms of their employment or contract.
(Ord. 10 of 2012, passed 8-13-2012; Am. Ord. 10 of 2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 98.03 PROHIBITED PERSONS.
   Individuals listed on the State of Indiana Sex Offender Registry published
and disseminated by the Indiana Criminal Justice Institute are prohibited from
all parks and other recreational areas of the Town of Winamac.
(Ord. 10 of 2012, passed 8-13-2012; Am. Ord. 10 of 2014, passed 7-14-2014)
Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.04 POSTING OF SIGNAGE.
   Officials of the town are hereby authorized and instructed to post and
maintain signs at the entrance of the park identifying the park rules and
penalties pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 10 of 2012, passed 8-13-2012; Am. Ord. 10 of 2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 98.98 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be and is enforceable by any duly sworn law enforcement
officer.
(Ord. 10 of 2012, passed 8-13-2012; Am. Ord. 10 of 2014, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter or who interferes in any way with due process of enforcement of any
provision of this chapter or does not comply within 30 days of any order issued
under this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than $25, or not more
than $500. Each day in which this violation occurs shall constitute a separate
offense. In addition to any fines imposed under this chapter any person causing
damages to park structures, grounds, or facilities as the result of a direct
violation to the provisions of this chapter, shall be held responsible for the
cost of repairs or replacement to said structures, grounds or facilities,
including the town’s reasonable attorney fees and other expenses of
enforcement. Entrance to the park shall be denied to persons until all fines
and other expenses have been paid to the Town of Winamac.
(Ord. 10 of 2012, passed 8-13-2012; Am. Ord. 10 of 2014, passed 7-14-2014)
CHAPTER 99: DISCRIMINATION
Section
   
99.01   Policy statement
   
99.02   Definitions
   
99.03   Unlawful practice
   
99.04   Sale or rental of housing
   
99.05   Residential real estate-related transactions
   
99.06   Provision of brokerage service
   
99.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
99.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
99.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
99.10   Exemptions
   
99.11   Administrative enforcement ordinance
§ 99.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 7 of 2015, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 99.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in this section shall apply throughout this
chapter.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. (I.C. 22-9.5-2-3) The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created
pursuant to I.C. 22-9-1-4, et. Seq.
   COMPLAINANT, (I.C. 22-9.5-2-4) A person, including the Commission, who files
a complaint under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
99.04 through
99.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILY. A single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9) with the status of such family
being further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person's major life activities;
         (b)   Record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; and
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 IAC 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of
the United States Code 910 IAC 2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an
individual solely because that individual is a transvestite 910 IAC 2-3-2(14).
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries (I.C. 22-9.5-2-11).
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant (I.C. 22-
9.5-2-13).
(Ord. 7 of 2015, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 99.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B), §
99.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
99.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) and I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C), nothing in §
99.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation §
99.04(C), but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title, or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale or
rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 7 of 2015, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 99.04 THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
99.03 and except as exempted by §
99.03(B) and §
99.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person; or
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, discrimination includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13,1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (I)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility an usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (H)(3)(c)3.
   (J)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health of
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 7 of 2015, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 99.05 RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term residential real estate-related
transaction means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 7 of 2015, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 99.06 PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 7 of 2015, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 99.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
99.03 through
99.06.
(Ord. 7 of 2015, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 99.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for
the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in division (A), or
participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local, state and
federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000
or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results shall be
subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 7 of 2015, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 99.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of
"family" is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 7 of 2015, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 99.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, 'housing for
older persons' means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state civil
rights commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 7 of 2015, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 99.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the sections of this
chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the chief
elected official of the town, shall refer all said complaints to the Commission
as provided for under division (A) of this section to said Commission for
purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for
under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the town, or the chief elected
official's designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 7 of 2015, passed 7-13-2015)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Circuses, tent shows and the like
   
110.02   Guns and firearms; permits
§ 110.01 CIRCUSES, TENT SHOWS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any circus, tent show, wagon show or carnival
to exhibit or operate within the corporate limits of the town without having
first procured a license so to do from the Clerk- Treasurer.
   (B)   Every circus, tent show or wagon show shall pay a license fee of $25
per day or part thereof of exhibition when using only one tent, wagon or other
conveyance, and an additional license fee of $5 per day or part thereof of
exhibition for each merry-go-round and each Ferris wheel or for a minimum of
one tent and an additional license fee of $5 per day or part of day of
exhibition where more than one tent is used for each extra tent more than one
so used.
(`94 Code, § 7-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 GUNS AND FIREARMS; PERMITS.
   (A)   The Police Department is hereby instructed and authorized to collect
the sum of $10 or another amount as hereafter permitted by state law for the
processing of each gun permit application submitted to the Police Department.
   (B)   (1)   All funds collected by the Police Department with each gun
permit application shall be delivered by the Police Department to the Clerk-
Treasurer.
      (2)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall deposit all funds turned over by the
Police Department from gun permit applications into the Law Enforcement
Continuing Education Fund.
   (C)   The town shall utilize the gun permit application fees so collected at
the direction of the Town Council and only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Purchase and maintenance of firearms; and
      (2)   Purchase of ammunition.
(Ord. 8, 1997, passed 5-12-1997)
CHAPTER 111: ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Limitation on location
   
111.03   Licensing
   
111.04   Advertising
   
111.05   Additional restrictions on certain activities
   
111.06   Revocation or suspension of adult entertainment business license
   
111.07   Appeal and hearing
   
111.08   Issuance of license for an adult entertainment business
   
111.09   Compliance of existing businesses required
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as a substantial amount of its
stock in trade or its dollar volume in trade, books, magazines, periodicals, or
other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides, tapes, records, or other forms of audio or audio representations which
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, theater, restaurant or similar
establishment which features live performances by topless or bottomless
dancers, go-go dancers, exotic dancers, strippers, or similar entertainers,
where such performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or by exposure of specified anatomical areas or
which regularly feature films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, tapes,
records, or other photograph representations which are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by
patrons.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. A bookstore, motion picture theater, mini-
motion picture theater, motion picture arcade, cabaret, drive-in theater, live
entertainment arcade or other non-specified businesses which, as a substantial
part of their business activities, sell or provide depictions of or provide
activities which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified
sexual activities or by exposure of specified anatomical areas.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the aureole; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if complete
and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sodomy;
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks, or female breasts;
      (4)   Flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship;
      (5)   Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented torture, heating, or the
infliction of pain;
      (6)   Erotic touching, fondling or other such contact with an animal by a
human being; or
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation as part of or in connection with any of the activities set forth in
this definition.
   SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT or SUBSTANTIAL PORTION. Thirty percent or more of the
inventory, receipts, or projection or performance time is devoted to or derived
from the activities regulated herein.
(Ord. 14, 2003, passed 12-8-2003)
§ 111.02 LIMITATION ON LOCATION.
   Adult bookstores or adult entertainment businesses shall be sited a minimum
of 500 feet from any church, park, school, or residential district.
(Ord. 14, 2003, passed 12-8-2003) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 LICENSING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct, or carry
on, or permit to be engaged in, conducted, or carried on, in or upon any
premises in the town, the operation of an adult bookstore or adult
entertainment business as defined in this chapter, without first having
obtained a separate license for an adult entertainment business from the Police
Chief.
   (B)   Every applicant for a license to maintain, operate, or conduct an
adult entertainment business shall file an application in duplicate under oath
with the Police Chief upon a form provided by the town and pay a filing fee of
$150 to the Clerk-Treasurer, who shall issue a receipt which shall be attached
to the application filed with the Police Chief.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall attach a copy of this chapter to each permit
issued, so that this chapter is incorporated by reference therein.
      (1)   The application for a license to operate an adult entertainment
business shall set forth the exact nature of the entertainment to be offered,
the proposed place of business and facilities therefore, and the name and
address of each applicant.
      (2)   The application shall be filed by the individual or individuals who
will operate the adult entertainment business. If the entity seeking the
license is not an individual, the following information must be provided for
each officer or director of the entity, as well as the individual employed by
the entity as manager or a similar position.
      (3)   In addition to the foregoing, any applicant for a license shall
furnish the following information:
         (a)   Written proof that the applicant is at least 18 years of age;
         (b)   Two portrait photographs of the applicant at least two inches by
two inches;
         (c)   Fingerprints;
         (d)   Business, occupation, or employment data for the three years
immediately preceding the date of application;
         (e)   A copy of the Indiana liquor license and a copy of the liquor
license application, if any;
         (f)   Previous adult entertainment business or liquor establishment
business history;
         (g)   Any criminal convictions, except minor traffic violations; and
         (h)   A copy of the birth certificate for each individual who will be
performing as an entertainer in the adult cabaret or adult live entertainment
arcade, within five days of the individual's commencement of work.
   (D)   The license shall be displayed in a prominent location at the
establishment during business hours and shall be subject to examination or
inspection by the general public and any other person at all times.
(Ord. 14, 2003, passed 12-8-2003; Am. Ord. 16 of 2021, passed 10-11-2021)
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 ADVERTISING.
   (A)   No adult entertainment business shall be conducted in any manner that
permits, from outside the establishment, the observation of any activities or
materials depicting, describing, or relating to topless or bottomless dancers,
go-go dancers, exotic dancers, strippers, or similar entertainers or form of
entertainment.
   (B)   No adult entertainment business shall advertise the business on the
outside of the premises by means of materials which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by
patrons therein.
   (C)   No outside loud speakers may be utilized, nor may the music or
entertainment be conducted at sound levels such that the content of the lyrics
or commentary is discernable outside or beyond the premises.
(Ord. 14, 2003, passed 12-8-2003) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   If an adult entertainment business provides booths or enclosed area
for viewing the entertainment, the booth or enclosed area must be of
transparent glass or plastic, or have a glass or plastic door that forms one
entire side of the booth or enclosure, that allows continuous unobstructed
monitoring of all areas of the booth or enclosure.
   (B)   Any adult entertainment business which provides for live entertainment
shall prohibit the touching of any specified anatomical areas of the
entertainers by the patrons of the establishment. This shall be accomplished
by, among other things, physical barriers, the size of the stage, or whatever
additional measures are necessary to ensure the separation of entertainers from
patrons.
(Ord. 14, 2003, passed 12-8-2003) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   Any adult entertainment business license may be revoked or suspended
by the Police Chief if the Chief finds that:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter
regulating adult entertainment businesses;
      (2)   The licensee violates, or has violated within the last ten years,
any state statute pertaining to obscenity, public indecency, sex crimes, or
allowing minors to perform as employees, or the licensee knowingly or under
circumstances where the licensee should have known of the offending conduct,
employs individuals who violate or have violated any such state statute;
      (3)   The licensee has knowingly furnished false or misleading
information, or withheld relevant information on any application for any
license or permit required by this chapter, or knowingly caused or suffered
another to furnish or withhold such information on his or her behalf;
      (4)   The licensee knowingly or under circumstances where the licensee
should have known of the offending conduct, permitted any violation of
applicable state or municipal law to occur on the licensed premises.
   (B)   The notice of revocation shall be sent by certified mail to the
licensee at the address on the permit at least ten days in advance of the
revocation date.
(Ord. 14, 2003, passed 12-8-2003; Am. Ord. 16 of 2021, passed 10-11-2021)
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 APPEAL AND HEARING.
   (A)   When an application for an adult entertainment business permit is
denied, or a permit is revoked, the applicant or licensee may within 14 days of
notice thereof, request a hearing before the Town Council, by written
application to the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s Office, 120 W. Main St., Winamac,
Indiana, 46996.
   (B)   A hearing shall be scheduled for the next public meeting of the Town
Council. The applicant or licensee may present evidence and argument and cross-
examine witnesses and may be represented by counsel.
(Ord. 14, 2003, passed 12-8-2003)
§ 111.08 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE FOR AN ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall issue a permit for an adult entertainment
business within 30 days following receipt of application if all requirements of
this chapter for an adult entertainment business are met, and may issue a
license unless he or she finds that:
      (1)   The operations as proposed by the applicant, if permitted, would
not comply with all applicable ordinances including, but not limited to, the
building, health, planning, housing, zoning, and fire codes;
      (2)   The applicant, and any other person who will be directly engaged in
the management and operation of an adult entertainment business, has been
convicted of a felony, or an offense involving sexual misconduct with children,
or any obscenity, keeping or residing in a house of ill fame, solicitation of a
lewd or unlawful act, prostitution, or pandering or other sex crimes as defined
by I.C. 35-42-4-1 et seq., or comparable statutes in other states.
   (B)   If the Police Chief fails to issue the permit within the time
provided, the application is deemed denied.
   (C)   If the Police Chief denies issuance of a license for an adult
entertainment business, the applicant may appeal the denial as described in
this chapter.
(Ord. 14, 2003, passed 12-8-2003; Am. Ord. 16 of 2021, passed 10-11-2021)
§ 111.09 COMPLIANCE OF EXISTING BUSINESSES REQUIRED.
   Existing adult entertainment businesses shall have 90 days from passage and
publication of this chapter to comply with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 14, 2003, passed 12-8-2003) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter shall be punishable according to §
10.99 of this code, in addition to any other remedies which the town may
impose. The Town Attorney is authorized to prosecute any violations, or seek
mandatory injunctive relief to prohibit or discontinue violations, in his or
her discretion.
(Ord. 14, 2003, passed 12-8-2003)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfew
   
130.02   Weapons possession; discharging
   
130.03   Feeding animals
   
130.04   Memorial Bridge regulations
   
130.05   Window panes or lights; destruction and the like
   
130.06   Permanent occupation of recreational vehicles prohibited
Cross-reference:
   Animals, see
Ch. 97
   Burning leaves and other rubbish, see §
96.01
   Spitting, see §
91.01
§ 130.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for a minor, during curfew hours, to remain
in or upon any public place within the town, to remain in any motor vehicle
operating or parked therein or thereon or to remain in or upon the premises of
any establishment within the town unless:
         (a)   The minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian;
         (b)   The minor is involved in an emergency;
         (c)   The minor is engaged in an employment activity or is going to or
returning home from the activity without detour or stop;
         (d)   The minor is attending any activity sponsored by a school,
religious or civic organization, or by another similar organization or entity,
which activity is supervised by adults and/or the minor is going to or
returning home from the activity without detour or stop;
         (e)   The minor is on an errand at the direction of a parent or
guardian and the minor has on his or her possession a writing signed by the
parent or guardian containing the following information: the name; signature;
address; telephone number of the parent or guardian authorizing the errand; the
name of the minor; the minor's destination; and the date and time that the
minor is authorized to be engaged in the errand;
         (f)   The minor is involved in interstate travel through, beginning or
terminating in the town; or
         (g)   The minor is exercising First Amendment rights protected by the
United States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of
speech and the right of assembly.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for a minor's parent or guardian to knowingly
permit, allow or encourage the minor to violate this section.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for a person who is the owner or operator of a
motor vehicle to knowingly permit, allow or encourage a minor to violate this
section.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of an establishment or any
person who is an employee thereof to knowingly permit, allow or encourage a
minor to remain upon the premises of the establishment during curfew hours. It
shall be a defense to prosecution of this section that the operator or employee
of an establishment promptly notified the Police Department that a minor was
present at the establishment after curfew hours and refused to leave.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any person, including a minor, to give
false name, address or telephone number to any officer investigating a possible
violation of this section.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CURFEW HOURS. The hours after 11:00 p.m. and before 5:00 a.m. on any day
of the week.
      EMERGENCY. Unforeseen circumstances or the status or condition resulting
therefrom requiring immediate action to safeguard life, limb or property. The
term includes, but is not limited to fires, natural disasters, automobile
accidents or other similar circumstances.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business within the town
operated for a profit, to which the public is invited, including, but not
limited to any place of amusement or entertainment. With respect to the
ESTABLISHMENT, the term “operator” shall mean any person, firm, association,
partnership (and the individual members or partners thereof) and/or any
corporation (and the individual officers thereof) conducting or managing that
establishment.
      MINOR. Any person under 18 years of age who has not been emancipated by
court order, pursuant the law of the state.
      OFFICER. To a police or other law enforcement officer charged with the
duty of enforcing the laws of the state and/or the ordinances of the town.
      PERSON. An individual, not an association, corporation or any other legal
entity.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access, including, but not limited to streets, highways, roads,
sidewalks, alleys, avenues, parks and/or the common areas of schools,
hospitals, apartment complexes, office buildings and shops.
   (C)   (1)   Before taking any enforcement action hereunder, an officer shall
make an immediate investigation for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not
the presence of a minor in a public place, motor vehicle and/or establishment
within the town during curfew hours is in violation of this section.
      (2)   If the investigation reveals that the presence of the minor is in
violation, then the officer shall issue a written citation to the minor or
offender, charging him or her with violation of this section. The officer shall
provide a copy of the same to the Town Attorney and the Town Attorney may
consider further civil prosecution.
      (3)   Further, as soon as practicable, the officer shall advise the
minor's parent or guardian of the alleged violation. If a parent or guardian is
not immediately available, the officer shall issue a written advisement to be
mailed by the Police Chief.
   (D)   If an individual under 18 years of age commits a curfew violation, as
defined herein, the parent, guardian or custodian of that individual shall be
deemed to have violated this section and the parent, guardian or custodian
shall be subject to civil penalties.
(Ord. 3, 2000, passed 10-9-2001; Am. Ord. 16 of 2021, passed 10-11-2021)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 WEAPONS POSSESSION; DISCHARGING.
   (A)   No person shall shoot, fire or in any manner discharge any rifle,
shotgun, pistol, revolver, other firearm or any air gun, B.B. gun or other
pellet gun within the corporate limits of the town, by aiming the rifle,
shotgun, pistol, revolver, other firearm, air gun, B.B. gun or other pellet gun
at any mark, bird, animal or other target.
   (B)   The possession, out of doors and within the corporate limits of the
town, of any rifle, shotgun, pistol, revolver, other firearm, air gun, B.B. gun
or other pellet gun, if the same be loaded with bullet, shell, shot, B.B. or
other pellet, shall be presumptive evidence of violation of this section, and
the town shall confiscate the loaded rifle, shotgun, pistol, revolver, other
firearm, air gun, B.B. gun or other pellet gun for a period of 30 days, after
which he or she shall, upon application therefor, return the same to the person
from whom it was taken.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a firearm and to a
person who has a permit to carry the firearm, as provided by the statutes of
the state, nor shall the provisions of this section apply to toy guns.
(`94 Code, § 11-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Guns and firearms; permits, see §
110.02
§ 130.03 FEEDING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall, at any time, feed any wild animal or fowl within or
adjacent to the town park located on the Tippecanoe River.
   (B)   No person shall possess any seed, grain, food or other substance, with
the intent to feed, any wild animal or fowl within or adjacent to the town park
located on the Tippecanoe River.
   (C)   No person shall assist or aid another person in feeding any wild
animal or fowl within or adjacent to the town park located on the Tippecanoe
River.
(Ord. 2, 1999, passed 2-23-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Keeping livestock, see §
97.10
§ 130.04 MEMORIAL BRIDGE REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Climb on railings or upon any part of the Memorial Suspension Bridge
structure;
   (B)   Cause unnecessary vibrations or movement of the Bridge;
   (C)   Jump from the bridge into the water; or
   (D)   Ride or push motorized vehicles, excepting physical aids, across the
Memorial Suspension Bridge.
(`94 Code, § 5-2-1) (Am. Ord. 8, 1994, passed 7-11-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 WINDOW PANES OR LIGHTS; DESTRUCTION AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or mischievously mark
upon with paint, lead, soap or other material or scratch, mar or mutilate in
any manner, any window pane, window light or window glass in a residence, store
room or other building in the town.
(`94 Code, § 5-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06 PERMANENT OCCUPATION OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, "recreational vehicle" shall mean any
boat, trailer (including travel), recreational vehicle, camper, or equipment as
sold as part of a vehicle, which is so constructed as to permit its being used
as a conveyance upon public streets, waterways, or highways by either self-
propelled or not self-propelled means.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy or permit to be occupied
for any period of time, a recreational vehicle within the corporate town
limits, as a primary residence.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, a person is deemed to be occupying a
recreational vehicle as his/her primary residence, if he/she has occupied that
recreational vehicle more than seven days in a 30-day period.
      (2)   This division (B) shall not apply to a mobile home parked in a
designated mobile home park, provided that no mobile home may be used for any
purpose other than that of a single-family dwelling.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person found in violation of this section may be fined
not more than $100 for each violation. Each day such violation is permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate violation. A previous violation may be
considered in determining the penalty assessed. A finding that a violation has
occurred or an admission that a violation has occurred is not required to
assess and recover a penalty, if the recipient subject to the penalty agrees to
pay the penalty, pursuant to either an agreed judgment or consent decree in a
court action for an section violation.
      (1)   A recipient may be fined not more than $250 for each repeat
violation. Each day such repeat violation is permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate violation under this division.
      (2)   The town may publish a list of the names of owners and occupants
who have been cited for a repeat violation under this section, and the
addresses of the affected properties. The Town Council shall determine the
frequency of publication.
(Ord. 8 of 2020, passed 8-10-2020)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   SIGN REGULATIONS
      
151.   BUILDING NUMBERING; ADDRESS SYSTEM
      
152.   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
      
153.   BUILDING CODE
      
154.   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 150: SIGN REGULATIONS
Section
Temporary Signs
   
150.01   Definitions
   
150.02   Limitations
   
150.03   Political signs
   
150.04   Violations
TEMPORARY SIGNS
§ 150.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVERTISER. The person or persons who disclose information concerning any
matter by means of displaying a sign or signs.
   DISPLAY. To exhibit, show or expose to public view.
   OWNER. The person or persons who hold the legal title to a parcel of ground
as recorded in the records of the County Recorder’s Office in which the
property is located.
   POLITICAL SIGNS. Those signs displayed for the purpose of influencing for or
against the election of an individual to any public office, or to support,
state, defend or educate the public on any political view or viewpoint.
   SIGN. A publicly displayed board, placard or other item used to impart,
transmit or display any information or advertising.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign not permanently fixed or placed and intended to be
used for limited duration.
   TOWN. Winamac, Indiana.
(Ord. 5, 1997, passed 3-26-1997)
§ 150.02 LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No owner or advertiser shall display or cause to be displayed any
temporary sign that has an area of more than four square feet and shall not
exceed 36 inches in height.
   (B)   No owner or advertiser shall display or cause to be displayed more
than two temporary signs on any owner's property at any time.
   (C)   Temporary signs which are used to advertise or solicit interest in an
event, function or activity shall not be posted or displayed more than 12 hours
in advance of the function, event or activity.
   (D)   All temporary signs which are used to advertise or solicit interest in
an event, function or activity shall be taken down and removed from public view
within six hours after the conclusion of the function, event or activity.
   (E)   All temporary signs that are displayed within the town must include
the following information on the face of the sign in a legible manner:
      (1)   Name of the person who displays or is responsible for displaying
the sign;
      (2)   Address of the person who displays or is responsible for displaying
the sign; and
      (3)   The time and date of the event, function or activity.
   (F)   All temporary signs that are displayed shall be constructed in a
manner so as to have a wood backing and shall be mounted on stakes made of
wood, plastic or metal, which shall be stuck into the ground.
   (G)   No person, owner or advertiser shall attach or affix, nor cause to be
attached or affixed, any temporary sign to any utility pole, tree, traffic
sign, post or other permanent structure within the town.
   (H)   No person shall post, mount or display any temporary sign on any
person's property without having first obtained the permission of the owner of
the property.
(Ord. 5, 1997, passed 3-26-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.03 POLITICAL SIGNS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply to the posting and displaying of all
political signs, except as hereafter noted.
   (B)   An owner or a person acting under the authority of the owner may
display more than two political signs on an owner’s property.
   (C)   Political signs may be displayed during any election year if the sign
is displayed for the purpose of influencing for or against the election of an
individual to any public office.
   (D)   Political signs may be displayed at any time if the sign is displayed
to support, state, defend or educate the public on any political view or
viewpoint.
(Ord. 5, 1997, passed 3-26-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.04 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Each day that a violation shall continue unabated or remedied shall
constitute a separate violation for which the owner shall be subject to fine.
   (C)   The town may commence an action to abate the violation and/or to
assess the fines in any court with appropriate jurisdiction in the county.
   (D)   In the event a lawsuit is commenced to abate the violation or to
assess a fine against the owner, advertiser or person, and the owner,
advertiser or person is found to have violated any provision of this
subchapter, the owner, advertiser and/or person shall be responsible and liable
to the town for any fine imposed together with all costs of the action,
including but not limited to costs of suit, expenses and reasonable attorney
fees incurred by the town in bringing the action.
(Ord. 5, 1997, passed 3-26-1997)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING NUMBERING; ADDRESS SYSTEM
Section
   
151.01   Uniform numbering system
   
151.02   Assignment of numbers
   
151.03   Administration
§ 151.01 UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   A uniform system of numbering properties and principal buildings, as shown
on the map identified by the title “Uniform System for Numbering Properties and
Principal Building,” which is filed in the Office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer,
is hereby adopted for use in the town. This map and all explanatory matter
thereon is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 8-3-1)
§ 151.02 ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS.
   (A)   All properties or parcels of land within the corporate limits of the
town shall hereafter be identified by reference to a uniform numbering system
adopted herein.
   (B)   A separate number shall be assigned for approximately each 20 feet of
frontage. However, in a recorded residential subdivision a separate number may
be assigned for each 50 feet of frontage.
   (C)   Each principal building shall bear the number assigned to the frontage
on which the front entrance is located. In case a principal building is
occupied by more than one business or family dwelling unit, each separate front
entrance of the principal building shall bear a separate number.
   (D)   Numerals indicating the official numbers for each principal building
or each front entrance to the building shall be posted in a manner as to be
visible from the street on which the property is located.
(`94 Code, § 8-3-2)
§ 151.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for maintaining the
numbering system. In the performance of this responsibility, he or she shall be
guided by the provisions hereof.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a record of all numbers assigned
hereunder.
(`94 Code, § 8-3-3)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Objectives
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.07   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
152.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
152.09   Compliance
   
152.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.11   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
152.12   Interpretation
   
152.13   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
152.20   Designation of Administrator
   
152.21   Permit procedures
   
152.22   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.30   General standards
   
152.31   Specific standards
   
152.32   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.33   Critical facility
   
152.34   Standards for identified floodways
   
152.35   Standards for identified fringe
   
152.36   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes
   
152.37   Standards for flood prone areas
Variance Procedures
   
152.50   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
152.51   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
152.52   Variance procedures
   
152.53   Conditions for variances
   
152.54   Variance notification
   
152.55   Historic structure
   
152.56   Special conditions
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Indiana Legislature has in I.C. 36-7-4 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Town Council of the Town of Winamac does hereby adopt the following floodplain
management regulations.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the Town of Winamac are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in fioodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately flood-proofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities.
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction.
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters.
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage.
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available for structures and
their contents in the town by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 152.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health.
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects.
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public.
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions.
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains.
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A ZONES,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as ZONE A, ZONE AE, ZONES A1-A30,
ZONE AO, ZONE AH, ZONE AR and ZONE A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are presented
below:
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown.
      (2)   ZONE AE and A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. (ZONE AE is on new and revised maps in place of ZONES
A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure with a floor area
400 square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation, and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay sheds
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
the Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate including
but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as tevees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
wails, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings, or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD.)
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD.)
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood prone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS, FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE, FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
ORDINANCE, and FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   HARDSHIP. As related to variances of this chapter, means the exceptional
hardship that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The
Winamac Town Council requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and
peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is
not exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURES. Any structures individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,
1997, will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA), LETTER OF MAP REVISION
(LOMR), and LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in
a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is
only issued by FEMA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations, and elevations.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision
by letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure.
      (2)   The top of the basement floor.
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure.
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars.
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929, a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993, a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE PERCENT (1%) ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with
the letter A is subject to the 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is (1) built on a single chassis; (2)
400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections;
(3) designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck;
and (4) designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as quarters
for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD elevation at any location is
as defined in §
153.07. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE FLOOD, 1% ANNUAL
CHANCE FLOOD, and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeds 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in
flood prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
town subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the Town of
Winamac are generally identified as such on the Pulsaki County, Indiana and
Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated May 5, 2014 as well as any
future updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency with the most recent date. (These areas are shown on a FIRM
as Zone A, AE, A1- A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to it's before damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements or any alteration
of an historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structures continued designation as an historic structure.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
SHADED X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X ZONES (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FIRM that reflects the severity or type
of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. (See A ZONE.)
   ZONE B, C, AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(ZONE X is used on new and revised maps in place of ZONES B and C.)
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 4 of 2013, passed 2-11-2013; Am.
Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 152.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the Town of Winamac.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 152.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the Town of Winamac shall be as
delineated on the 1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study
of Pulaski County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas dated May 5, 2014 and the
corresponding Flood Insurance Rate Map dated May 5, 2014 as well as any future
updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency with the most recent date.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the Town of Winamac, delineated as an
“A Zone” on the Pulaski County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance
Rate Map dated May 5, 2014 as well as any future updates, amendments, or
revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date, shall be according to the best data available as provided by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources; provided the upstream drainage area
from the subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party
disagrees with the best available data, the party needs to replace existing
data with better data that meets current engineering standards. To be
considered, this data must be submitted to the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources for review, subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community’s known flood prone areas shall be according
to the best data available as provided by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 4 of 2013, passed 2-11-2013; Am.
Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 152.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 152.11 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall be
considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 152.12 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements.
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body.
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 152.13 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the Town of Winamac, the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources, or the State of Indiana, for any flood damage that results from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully
thereunder.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.20 DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Council of the Town of Winamac hereby appoints the Pulaski County
Building Commissioner to administer and implement the provisions of this
ordinance and is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 4 of 2013, passed 2-11-2013; Am.
Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 152.21 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically the following information is required:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   A description of the proposed development.
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams.
      (3)   A legal description of the property site.
      (4)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades.
      (5)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD.
      (6)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed.
      (7)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted to DNR for
approval and then to FEMA as a Letter of Map Revision. (See § 152.22(B)(6) for
additional information.)
   (B)   Construction stage. Upon establishment/placement of the lowest floor,
before framing continues, to include any approved floodproofing, it shall be
the duty of the applicant to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD elevation of the lowest floor or
floodproofed elevation, as built. The certification shall be prepared by or
under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional
engineer and certified by the same. When floodproofing is utilized for a
particular structure the certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. Any
work undertaken prior to submission of the floodproofing certification shall be
at the applicant’s risk. (The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest
floor and floodproofing elevation survey data submitted.) The applicant shall
correct deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is allowed
to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make the corrections
required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project. Any
work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification shall be at
the applicant’s risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest
floor or floodproofed elevation survey data submitted. The applicant shall
correct any deficiencies detected by such review. Failure to submit the
elevation certification or failure to make correction required shall be cause
to issue a stop-work order for the project.
   (C)   Finished construction. Upon completion of construction, a FEMA
elevation certificate, Form 81-31, which depicts all finished construction, is
required to be submitted to the Floodplain Administrator, if the project
includes a floodproofing measure, a FEMA floodproofing certificate, Form 81-65,
is required to be submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.22 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations.
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§152.34 and 152.36(A), and maintain a record of such authorization (either
copy of actual permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory
assessment).
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit.
      (5)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway.
      (6)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA.
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and “as-built” elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter.
      (8)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community.
      (9)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished.
      (10)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance.
      (11)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
152.21.
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
152.21.
      (13)   Perform a minimum of three inspections to ensure that all
applicable ordinance and floodplain development requirements have been
satisfied. The first upon the establishment of the flood protection grade
reference mark at the development site; the second upon the establishment of
the structure’s footprint/establishment of the lowest floor; and the final
inspection upon completion and submission of the required finished construction
elevation certificate. Authorized Pulaski County Officials or designees shall
have the right to enter and inspect properties located in the SFHA.
      (14)   Stop work orders.
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (15)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of this chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.30 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood prone areas the following provisions are
required:
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components betow the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Parking lots, driveways, and sidewalks within the SFHA shall be
constructed with permeable materials.
   (K)   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume of
space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the BFE
shall be compensated for and balanced by an equivalent volume of excavation
taken below the BFE. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the
volume of storage lost (replacement ratio of 1 to 1) due to the fill or
structure.
      (1)   The excavation shall take place in the floodplain and in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located.
      (2)   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to take
place outside of but adjacent to the floodplain provided that the excavated
volume will be below the regulatory flood elevation, will be in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located, will be
accessible to the regulatory floodwater, will not be subject to ponding when
not inundated by floodwater, and that it shall not be refilled.
      (3)   The excavation shall provide for true storage of floodwater but
shall not be subject to ponding when not inundated by floodwater.
      (4)   The fill or structure shall not obstruct a drainage way leading to
the floodplain.
      (5)   The grading around the excavation shall be such that the excavated
area is accessible to the regulatory floodwater.
      (6)   The fill or structure shall be of a material deemed stable enough
to remain firm and in place during periods of flooding and shall include
provisions to protect adjacent property owners against any increased runoff or
drainage resulting from its placement.
      (7)   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated and filled shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction or any site work; once site
work is complete, but before the actual start of construction, the applicant
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a certified survey of the
excavation and fill sites demonstrating the fill and excavation comply with
this subchapter.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.31 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §
152.30, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet.
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land).
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred.
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days.
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage.
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
      (7)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community’s first
floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential structures. New construction or substantial improvement of
any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor;
including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
below.
   (C)   Non-residential structures. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be
floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
division (D) below. Structures located in all “A Zones” may be floodproofed in
lieu of being elevated if done in accordance with the following:
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
152.22(B)(12).
      (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
      (2)   Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls. Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area).
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
         (f)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade.
         (g)   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction
in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device.
         (h)   Property shall be required to execute a flood openings/venting
affidavit acknowledging that all openings will be maintained as flood vents,
and that the elimination or alteration of the openings in any way will violate
the requirements of this division (D). Periodic inspections will be conducted
by the Floodplain Administrator to ensure compliance. The affidavit shall be
recorded in the office of the Pulaski County Recorder.
         (i)   Property owners shall be required to execute and record with the
structure’s deed a non-conversion agreement declaring that the area below the
lowest floor (where the interior height of the enclosure exceeds six feet) or
the detached accessory building shall not be improved, finished or otherwise
converted; the community will have the right to inspect the enclosed area. The
non-conversion agreement shall be recorded in the office of the Pulaski County
Recorder.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method, which shall be retained in permit
file.
      (2)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than 3 horizontal to 1 vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
      (6)   Fill shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements:
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a
flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not been
substantially damaged by a flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days; or
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes as stated earlier
in this section.
   (G)   Accessory structures. Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures. Such structures must meet
the following standards:
      (1)   Shall not be used for human habitation.
      (2)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials.
      (3)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (4)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation.
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG.
      (6)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in division (D) above.
   (H)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 4 of 2013, passed 2-11-2013; Am.
Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.32 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.33 CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.34 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
152.07, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1 a permit for
construction in a floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction, or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving and the like undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of a non-substantial addition/ improvement to a residence
in a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval for the fill is required from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.)
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or letter of authorization (when applicable) has been issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in
the floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit,
provided the provisions contained in this subchapter have been met. The
floodplain development permit cannot be less restrictive than the permit for
construction in a floodway issued by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources. However, a community’s more restrictive regulations (if any) shall
take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed, which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, that will adversely affect the efficiency
of, or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This adverse affect is
defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at least
0.15 of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory flood elevation under
the project condition to that under the natural or pre-floodway condition as
proven with hydraulic analyses.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the town shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 CFR § 65.12.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.35 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in this subchapter have been met. The key provision is
that the top of the lowest floor of any new or substantially improved structure
shall be at or above the FPG.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.36 STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS/FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway permit (including letters of
authorization) or a fioodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the 1%
annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade has
been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway permit (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in this subchapter have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in this
subchapter have been met.
   (C)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the
regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot and will not increase flood damages
or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.37 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per this subchapter.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
Penalty, see §
152.99
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 152.50 DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Winamac Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals and
requests for variances from requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 152.51 DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator
in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by
the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the Pulaski County
Circuit Court.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 152.52 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter, and:
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community.
   (D)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable.
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage.
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development.
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area.
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment of
transport of the floodwaters at the site.
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 152.53 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship.
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §
152.34 or
152.36(A) may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §
152.34 or
152.36(A) will require a permit from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
152.31 may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation. (See §
152.54.)
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request. (See §
152.54.)
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 152.54 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the flood
protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases risks
to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the Pulaski County Recorder and shall be
recorded in a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected
parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 152.55 HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an “historic structure”
and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character and design
of the structure.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 152.56 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in this subchapter, and the
purposes of this chapter, the Winamac Board of Zoning Appeals may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or failure to
comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or conditions
of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All violations
shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in accordance with
the provisions of the Zoning Code for the Town of Winamac. All violations shall
be punishable by a fine not exceeding $2,500.
   (A)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (B)   The Town of Winamac Town Council shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 8 of 2007, passed 11-13-2007; Am. Ord. 3 of 2014, passed 4-14-2014)
CHAPTER 153: BUILDING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Title
   
153.02   Purpose
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Scope
   
153.05   Authority
   
153.06   Severability
   
153.07   Effect of adoption on prior ordinance
Building Permits
   
153.15   Building permit required
   
153.16   Application for building permit
   
153.17   Issuance of building permit
   
153.18   Certificate of occupancy
Investigations and Inspections of Construction Activities
   
153.25   General authority to make inspections and investigations
   
153.26   Inspections by Fire Department
Enforcement
   
153.35   Withhold issuance of permits
   
153.36   Permit revocation
   
153.37   Stop work order
   
153.38   Civil action
   
153.39   Right of appeal
Minimum Construction Standards
   
153.50   Adoption of rules by reference
   
153.51   Lifting devices located within a private residence
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all material included herein by reference shall be known as
the “Building Code of Winamac, Indiana.”
(Ord. 4 of 2006, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 153.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the life, public safety, health
and general welfare of the citizens of Winamac, Indiana, and shall be construed
in such a manner to effectuate this purpose.
(Ord. 4 of 2006, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise clearly indicated by its context, the words and terms
defined in this section shall have the specified meanings.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. Includes individuals employed by the Building
Department that are authorized to represent the Building Commissioner.
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-4:
      (1)   Any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to be or is occupied or
otherwise used in any part by any of the following:
            1.   The public.
            2.   Three or more tenants.
            3.   One or more persons who act as the employees of another.
         (b)   A site improvement affecting access by persons with physical
disabilities to a building or structure described in division (1)(a) above.
         (c)   Any class of buildings or structures that the commission
determines by rules to affect a building or structure described in division (1)
(a), except buildings or structures described in divisions (3) through (6)
below.
      (2)   Division (1)(a) includes a structure that contains three or more
condominium units (as defined in I.C. 32-25-2-9) or other units that:
         (a)   Are intended to be or are used or leased by the owner of the
unit; and
         (b)   Are not completely separated from each other by an unimproved
space.
      (3)   Division (1)(a) does not include a building or structure that:
         (a)   Is intended to be or is used only for an agricultural purpose on
the land where it is located; and
         (b)   Is not used for retail trade or is a stand used for retail sales
of farm produce for eight or less consecutive months in a calendar year.
      (4)   Division (1)(a) does not include a Class 2 structure.
      (5)   Division (1)(a) does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (6)   Division (1)(a) does not include a structure that is intended to be
or is occupied solely to provide periodic maintenance or repair of:
         (a)   The structure; or
         (b)   Mechanical or electrical equipment located within and affixed to
the structure.
      (7)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, STRUCTURE includes swimming pool.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-5:
      (1)   Any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to contain or contains
only one dwelling unit or two dwelling units unless any part of the building or
structure is regularly used as a Class 1 structure.
         (b)   An outbuilding for a structure described in division (1)(a)
above, such as a garage, barn, or family swimming pool, unless any part of the
outbuilding is regularly used as a Class 1 structure.
      (2)   Division (1) does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, STRUCTURE includes swimming pool.
   CONSTRUCTION. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-7, any of the following:
      (1)   Fabrication of any part of an industrialized building system or
mobile structure for use at another site.
      (2)   Erection or assembly of any part of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure
at the site where it will be used.
      (3)   Installation of any part of the permanent heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, electrical, plumbing, sanitary, emergency detection, emergency
communication, or fire or explosion suppression systems for a Class 1 or Class
2 structure at the site where it will be used.
      (4)   Work undertaken to alter, remodel, rehabilitate, or add to any part
of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure.
      (5)   Work undertaken to relocate any part of a Class 1 or Class 2
structure, except a mobile structure.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-14, any part of a
building or other structure that is in whole or in substantial part fabricated
in an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the
building site as part of a Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure, or another
building or structure. However, the term does not include a mobile structure or
a system that is capable of inspection at the building site.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-16 has the meaning set forth in
42 U.S.C. 5402 as it existed on January 1, 2003. This definition is as follows:
MANUFACTURED HOME means a structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body
feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet,
and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical
systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure
which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements
and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification
required by the Secretary of Housing and UrbanDevelopment and complies with the
standards established under this 42 U.S.C. 5401 et seq. and except that such
term shall not include any self-propelled recreational vehicle.
   MOBILE STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-17:
      (1)   Any part of a fabricated unit that is designed to be:
         (a)   Towed on its own chassis; and
         (b)   Connected to utilities for year-round occupancy or use as a
Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure, or another structure.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   Two or more components that can be retracted for towing purposes
and subsequently expanded for additional capacity.
         (b)   Two or more units that are separately towable but designed to be
joined into one integral unit.
   PERSON. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-18, an individual, corporation, limited
liability company, partnership, unincorporated association, or governmental
entity.
   STRUCTURE. Both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically stated
otherwise.
   VEHICULAR BRIDGE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-26, any bridge that is neither:
(i) a pedestrian walkway; nor (ii) a passageway for light vehicles; suspended
between two or more parts of a building or between two or more buildings.
(Ord. 4 of 2006, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 153.04 SCOPE.
   (A)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, this chapter shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4; however, the provisions of this chapter and the rules promulgated by the
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do apply to any construction
related to an industrialized building system or mobile structure not certified
under I.C. 22-15-4.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, this chapter is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels, or
regulated lifting devices.
(Ord. 4 of 2006, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 153.05 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce the following:
   (A)   All of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11.
   (C)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7.
(Ord. 4 of 2006, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 153.06 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any provision (section, clause, phrase, word, or any other portion)
of this chapter be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid
for any reason, the remaining provisions shall not be affected, if and only if
such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or provisions be
given the effect intended in adopting this chapter. To this end, the provisions
of this chapter are severable.
(Ord. 4 of 2006, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 153.07 EFFECT OF ADOPTION ON PRIOR ORDINANCE.
   The expressed or implied repeal of amendment by this chapter of any other
ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the
effective date of this chapter. These rights, liabilities, and other
proceedings are continued and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the
repealed or amended ordinance as if this chapter had not been adopted.
(Ord. 4 of 2006, passed 8-14-2006)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 153.15 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Construction is prohibited unless in conformity with a valid building permit
obtained from the Building Commissioner prior to commencement of construction.
(Ord. 4 of 2006, passed 8-14-2006) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.16 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit a complete
application to the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   This application shall be submitted on a form prepared by the Building
Commissioner, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Information that the Building Commissioner determines to be
necessary to locate and contact the applicant.
      (2)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans and
specifications drawn to scale which indicate in a precise manner the nature and
location of all work to be accomplished.
      (3)   A plot plan drawn to scale; provided, however, such plot plan shall
not be required in the instance where all such construction is to occur
entirely within an existing structure. This plot plan shall reflect the
location of the structure in relation to existing property lines and show
streets, curbs and sidewalks and proposed changes or additions to such streets,
curbs and sidewalks.
      (4)   If required by Indiana law or any rule of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, a copy of a design release for the work to be done
that has been issued by the Building Law Compliance Officer pursuant to I.C.
22-15-3.
      (5)   Any additional information that the Building Commissioner finds to
be necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all applicable
building laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws.
      (6)   The fee established by Pulaski County Ordinance No. 4 of 2006.
   (C)   Application for a building permit shall be made by the person entitled
to obtain the permit or by an employee or agent of that person. The Building
Commissioner may require that such an employee or agent provide written
authority to apply for a permit.
(Ord. 4 of 2006, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 153.17 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   The Building Commissioner shall issue a building permit to a person after
the person has submitted a complete application, including any applicable fee,
provided that the proposed construction will conform to all applicable building
laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws.
(Ord. 4 of 2006, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 153.18 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure shall be issued
unless such building or structure was constructed in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. It shall be unlawful to occupy any such building or
structure unless a full, partial, or temporary certificate of occupancy has
been issued by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 4 of 2006, passed 8-14-2006) Penalty, see §
153.99
INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES
§ 153.25 GENERAL AUTHORITY TO MAKE INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   All construction shall be subject to periodic inspections by the
Building Commissioner irrespective of whether a building permit has been or is
required to be obtained.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner may at any reasonable time go in, upon,
around or about the premises where any structure subject to the provisions of
this chapter or to the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission is located for the purposes of inspection and investigation of such
structure. Such inspection and investigation may be made before and/or after
construction on the project is completed for the purposes of detennining
whether the structure meets building standards and procedures, and ascertaining
whether the construction and procedures have been accomplished in a manner
consistent with this chapter and the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission.
(Ord. 4 of 2006, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 153.26 INSPECTIONS BY FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Department shall work cooperatively
to conduct inspections and investigations to promote compliance with fire
safety laws. (The Fire Department has independent authority to conduct
inspections and take enforcement actions under I.C. 36-8-17).
(Ord. 4 of 2006, passed 8-14-2006)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.35 WITHHOLD ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Whenever a person which is either an applicant for a building permit
or an obtainer of a building permit owes fees (including checks returned for
insufficient funds, permit fees or inspection fees owed pursuant to Pulaski
County Ordinance No. 4 of 2006 to the Building Commissioner the Building
Commissioner may withhold the issuance of subsequently requested permits until
such time that the debt is satisfied.
   (B)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure that
is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions of
an applicable zoning ordinance or other ordinance relating to land use, the
Building Commissioner is authorized to withhold the issuance of requested
permits until such time that the property is brought into conformance with
applicable ordinances.
(Ord. 4 of 2006, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 153.36 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Building Commissioner may revoke a building permit when any of the
following are applicable:
   (A)   The application, plans or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact.
   (B)   The application, plans or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures.
   (C)   There is failure to comply with this chapter.
   (D)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance or
other ordinance relating to land use.
(Ord. 4 of 2006, passed 8-14-2006) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.37 STOP WORK ORDER.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner may issue an order requiring suspension of
the pertinent construction (stop work order) in accordance with this section.
   (B)   The stop work order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing.
      (2)   State with specificity the construction to which it is applicable
and the reason for its issuance.
      (3)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place.
      (4)   If practicable, be given to:
         (a)   he person doing the construction; and
         (b)   To the owner of the property or the owner’s agent.
      (5)   The stop work order shall state the conditions under which
construction may be resumed.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner may issue a stop work order if:
      (1)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but not
limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this chapter or any state
law pertaining to safety during construction.
      (2)   Construction is occurring in violation of this chapter or in such a
manner that if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a reasonable
probability that it will substantially difficult to correct the violation.
      (3)   Construction for which a building permit is required is proceeding
without a building permit being in force.
   (D)   The issuance of a stop work order shall in no way limit the operation
of penalties provided elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. 4 of 2006, passed 8-14-2006) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.38 CIVIL ACTION.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4, the town may initiate a civil action in a court
of competent jurisdiction to restrain any person from violating a provision of
this chapter.
(Ord. 4 of 2006, passed 8-14-2006) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.39 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this chapter shall have the
right to petition for review of any order of the Building Commissioner. Such a
person may file a petition using either, or both, of the following procedures:
   (A)   Appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
      (1)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this chapter may appeal
to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, in accordance with I.C.
22-13-2-7.
      (2)   The Commission may modify or reverse any order issued by the town
that covers a subject governed by I.C. 22-12, I.C. 22-13, I.C. 22-14, I.C. 22-
15, a fire safety, or a building rule.
      (3)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
orders that concern a Class 2 structure if the person aggrieved by the order
petitions for review under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 within 30 days after the issuance of
the order.
      (4)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission may review all
other orders issued under this chapter.
      (5)   The review of an order by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission does not suspend the running of the time period under any statute in
which a person must petition a court for judicial review of the order.
   (B)   Appeal to an established local administrative body or court. If,
pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9, the town has established by ordinance an
administrative body to hear appeals of orders issued under ordinances, then a
person aggrieved by an order may petition for review with this administrative
body in accordance with the ordinance. If no such administrative body exists,
then the person may petition a court for judicial review of the order.
(Ord. 4 of 2006, passed 8-14-2006) Penalty, see §
153.99
MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 153.50 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-2(b), the rules of the Indiana Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following Articles
of Title 675 of the Indiana Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by
reference in this code and shall include any later amendments to those rules.
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes.
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards.
         (b)   Indiana Building Code.
      (2)   Article 14 - Indiana Residential Code
      (3)   Article 16 - Indiana Plumbing Code.
      (4)   Article 17 - Indiana Electrical Code.
      (5)   Article 18 - Indiana Mechanical Code.
      (6)   Article 19 - Indiana Energy Conservation Code.
      (7)   Article 20 - Indiana Swimming Pool Code.
      (8)   Article 22 - Indiana Fire Code.
      (9)   Article 24 - Migrant Day Care Nursery Fire Safety Code.
      (10)   Article 25 - Indiana Fuel Gas Code.
   (B)   Two copies of the above building rules incorporated by reference are
on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the legislative body for
public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and building laws
adopted in this chapter. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), a variance granted by
the Building Commissioner is not effective until it has been approved by Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
(Ord. 4 of 2006, passed 8-14-2006) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.51 LIFTING DEVICES LOCATED WITHIN A PRIVATE RESIDENCE,
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-l-22(b)(12), lifting devices, such as elevators
and wheelchair lifts, located within a private residence are not regulated
lifting devices. Therefore, the following standards applicable to lifting
devices located within a private residence are incorporated by reference:
      (1)   Part 5.3, Private Residence Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-2000, Safety
Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
      (2)   Part 5.4,PrivateResidenceInclinedElevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-2000,
Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
      (3)   Section 5, Private Residence Vertical Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
      (4)   Section 6, Private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
      (5)   Section 7, Private Inclined Stairway Lifts, ASME A18.1a, 2001
(Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway Chair
Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park
Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
   (B)   Two copies of the above lifting device standards incorporated by
reference are on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer for the legislative
body for public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 4 of 2006, passed 8-14-2006) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter may be subject to a fine
in any sum not exceeding $2,500. The assessment of a monetary penalty shall in
no way limit the operation of the penalties provided elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. 4 of 2006, passed 8-14-2006)
CHAPTER 154: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Section
   
154.01   Unified Development Ordinance adopted
§ 154.01 UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Ordinance No. 3 of 2017, An Ordinance for Unified Development with the
exception of the current zoning map and zoning fee permits, shall be in full
force and effect on January 1, 2017.
   (B)   Ordinance No. 3 of 2017 repeals and replaces the Winamac Zoning and
Subdivision Control Ordinance as adopted in 1994 and subsequently amended, but
excludes the Official Zoning Map and change to the zoning permit fee. Copies of
the Winamac, Indiana, Unified Development Ordinance will be available for
inspection and review, during regular business hours, in the Clerk-Treasurer’s
Office/Town Hall as well as the Office of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 3 of 2017, passed 2-13-2017)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   VACATIONS
      
II.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
III.   ZONING CHANGES
      
IV.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
V.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
2,   1-13-  Vacation of a dedicated alley between Lots 7 and 8 of the M.D. Falvey Addition
1997 1997   to the town
9,   10-11- Vacation of ten feet of the right-of-way on Market Street between 15th Street
1999 1999   and 16th Street in McClelland’s Addition to the town
6,   8-11-  Vacation of an alley running east and west in McClelland’s Addition between
2003 2003   lots numbered 48 and the west 132 feet of the Seminary Lot McClelland’s
            Addition
2 of 4-10-  Vacation of an alley in Hogan’s Addition between Lots 3 and 4 and between
2006 2006   contiguous parcels owned by LaurDi Properties, LLC
5 of 5-12-  Vacation of a portion of a roadway located in McClelland’s Addition between
2006 2006   contiguous parcels of land owned by Jeffrey R. Weyer.
1 of 1-14-  Vacation of a 16-foot wide public alley commending at a point 18 feet north of
2008 2008   the south boundary of Lots 10 and 16, running north to a point 33 feet north
            of the south edge of Lots 18 and 8
7 of 6-9-   Vacation of a 20-foot wide public alley between Lots 27 and 28 of the Jenkin’s
2008 2008   Second Addition
8 of 6-9-   Vacation a portion of a 25-foot wide public street between Lots 1 and 20 in
2008 2008   the Hogan’s Addition beginning at its intersection with the north side of
            Madison Street and extending north 45 feet
6 of 4-13-  Vacation of a 20-foot wide public alley between Lots 83 and 84 in the Rowan
2009 2009   Addition
6 of 8-13-  Vacation of two 16-foot wide public alleys in Hogan’s Addition, the first
2012 2012   between Lots 17 and 18, and the second between Lots, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and
            Lots 20, 19, 18, 17, 16, 15 and 14
3 of 6-13-  Vacation of a 16-foot alley, commencing at a point 132 feet north of the south
2016 2016   boundary of Lots 3 and 4 of McClelland’s Addition and running 132 feet east of
            Keller Street
Res. 2-13-  Vacation of a 30-foot wide parcel north of Lots 1 through 7 in Hogan’s
2 of 2017   Addition, and a 30-foot wide parcel on the south side of Lot 8 or Reidelbach’s
2017        Addition to the town
8 of 10-8-  Vacation of unused public street, better known as Water Street and divided
2018 2018   equally between adjoining landowners
13   11-12- Vacation of unused public street, better known as Water Street and divided
of   2018   equally between adjoining landowners
2018
13   8-9-   Vacating all of the right-of-way of Sherrill Court as depicted on the plat of
of   2021   Georgann Subdivision
2021
9 of 6-10-  Vacating the unimproved, 16-foot alley, lying between Lots 5 and 21 and Lots 6
2024 2024   and 20, and being 132 feet north and south by 16 feet east and west, as shown
            on the original plat of the town
           
 
TABLE II: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
7, 1997   6-9-1997    Entrance into a wholesale power supply agreement with
                      Cinergy Co.
5 of 2017 5-18-17     Adoption of economic development rider to Indiana
                      Municipal Power Agency
2 of 2022 5-9-2022    Authorizing execution of INDOT agreements and all other
                      documents related to any INDOT grant programs
                     
 
TABLE III: ZONING CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
Res. 4, 1994 11-14-1994  Reclassification of certain property from R-1 to B-2
Res. 5, 1994 11-21-1994  Reclassification of certain property from R-1 to B-2
8, 2003      9-8-2003    Reclassification of certain property from I-2 to B-2
4 of 2004    4-12-2004   Reclassification of certain property from A-1 to B-2
1 of 2006    2-13-2006   Reclassification of certain property from R-1, B-1, or
                         RMH to R-2
7 of 2006    8-14-2006   Reclassification of certain property from R-1 or R-
                         2 to B-2
15 of 2007   12-10-2007  Reclassification of certain property from R-1 to B-2
2 of 2008    2-11-2008   Reclassification of certain property from R-1 to B-2
10 of 2008   6-9-2008    Reclassification of certain property from R-2 to B-1
12 of 2008   8-11-2008   Reclassification of certain property from R-1 to B-2
4 of 2012    5-14-2012   Reclassification of certain property from R-1 to A-1
20 of 2012   12-10-2012  Reclassification of certain property from B-2 to B-1
6 of 2013    6-10-2013   Reclassification of certain property from R-2 to B-1
1 of 2014    2-10-2014   Reclassification of certain property from B-2 to A-1
                        
 
TABLE IV: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No.        Date Passed Description
Res. 1, 1994    6-13-1994   Authorization for bid on a purchase of land
Res. 14 of 2017 - -         Authorization for purchase of 251 Main Street for
                            use as police station
Res. 3 of 2020  8-31-2020   Authorizing the purchase of three parcels of real
                            property commonly known as 204 S. Logan Street
                           
 
TABLE V: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
                      Annexing that part of the Northeast Quarter of the
2, 2003   2- -2003    Southwest Quarter of Section 12, Township 30 North, Range
                      2 West of the Second Principal Meridian, Monroe Civil
                      Township, Pulaski County
                      Annexing U.S. Highway 35 North area being part of the
                      Northeast Quarter of the Section 11, and part of the
6 of 2004 11-8-2004   Northwest Quarter of Section 12 of Township 30 North,
                      Range 2 West of the Second Principal Meridian, Monroe
                      Civil Township, Pulaski County
3 of 2024 4-8-2024  Annexing North Plaza of Winamac, LLC, and Galco, Inc.,
                      properties
                     
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1994 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Citation Code Section
I.C. Citation        Code Section
1-1-1-5              10.04
1-1-1-7              10.12
1-1-1-8              10.06
1-1-4-5              10.05
1-1-5-1              10.11
1-1-6-1              10.08
3-5-3-11             30.03
4-21.5-3-7           153.39
5-3-1                33.03,
                     34.03
5-4-1-18             33.03
5-11-1-16(d)         35.04
5-11-1-27(j)         35.03,
                     35.04
5-11-1-27(l)         35.03
5-11-10 et seq.      34.04
5-11-10-1.6          34.06
5-13-9-5.7           35.02
5-13-9-5.7(a)        35.02
5-13-9-5.7(b)        35.02
5-14-3 et seq.       35.11
5-14-3-4             35.11
5-14-3-5.3           35.11
6-1.1-41             33.03
8-1-26-2 - 8-1-26-12 50.10
8-1-32.3-15(c)(1)    50.12
8-1.5-3-8            52.04
8-1.5-3.5-3          53.05
9-13-2-69.7          70.03
9-17-2               70.01
9-21-9-2             70.03
9-22-1-1 et seq.     90.02
9-22-1-32            90.04
9-25-2-3             70.03
13-11-2-191          33.02
13-17-9              96.01
22-9.5-1             99.01
22-9.5-2-2           99.02
22-9.5-2-3           99.02
22-9.5-2-4           99.02
22-9.5-2-8           99.02
22-9.5-2-9           99.02
22-9.5-2-11          99.02
22-9.5-2-13          99.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.     99.10
22-9.5-3             99.03
22-9.5-4-8           99.11
22-9.5-5             99.02
22-9.5-5-1           99.03
22-9.5-6             99.02,
                     99.11
22-11-14-1           96.10
22-12                158.39
22-12-1-4            153.03
22-12-1-5            153.03
22-12-1-7            153.03
22-12-1-14           153.03
22-12-1-16           153.03
22-12-1-17           153.03
22-12-1-18           153.03
22-12-1-22(b)(12)    153.51
22-12-1-24           153.03
22-12-1-26           153.03
22-12-7              153.05
22-13                153.39
22-13-2-2(b)         153.50
22-13-2-6            153.04
22-13-2-7            153.39
22-13-2-7(b)         153.50
22-13-2-9            153.04
22-13-2-11           153.05
22-14                153.39
22-15                153.39
22-15-3              153.16
22-15-4              153.04
32-25-2-9            153.03
35-42-4-1 et seq.    111.08
35-46-3-4.5          97.02
36-1-2-23            50.09
36-1-3-8(a)(10)      10.99
36-1-3-8(a)(10)(B)   54.05
36-1-5-4             153.50,
                     153.51
36-1-6-4             153.38
36-1-6-9             158.39
36-1-21              35.06
36-5-4-12(b)         34.06
36-8-3-4             33.04
36-8-3-4.1           33.04
36-8-6-2             33.05
36-8-8               33.05
36-8-8-19            33.04
36-8-9-1 et seq.     33.04
36-8-9-8             33.04
36-8-17              153.26
36-9-23-25           53.05
36-10-3 et seq.      33.03
36-10-3              33.03
36-10-3-4.1          33.03
36-10-3-22           33.03
                     
 
REFERENCES TO 1994 CODE
1994 Code Section 2001 Code Section
1994 Code Section 2001 Code Section
1-1               92.01,
                  92.02
2-1               33.01
2-2               33.01
2-3               33.01
2-4               33.01
3-2-1             30.01
3-2-2             30.02
4-1-1             Ch. 72 Sch. II
4-2-1             71.01
4-3               70.01
5-2-1             130.04
5-2-2             130.05
6-1               91.01
6-2               96.01
6-3               97.10
7-1-1             110.01
8-1-1             93.04
8-2-1             93.05
8-2-2             93.06
8-3-1             151.01
8-3-2             151.02
8-3-3             151.03
10-3-1            50.01
10-3-2            50.02
10-3-3            50.03
10-3-4            50.04
10-3-5            50.05
10-3-6            50.06
10-3-7            50.07
10-3-8            50.08
10-5              50.09
11-1              130.02
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.   Date Passed Code Section
1, 1994    6-13-1994   T.S.O. Table IV
4, 1994    11-14-1994  T.S.O. Table III
5, 1994    11-21-1994  T.S.O. Table III
6, 2003  8-11-2003   T.S.O. I
2 of 2017  2-13-2017   T.S.O. I
4 of 2017  4-29-2017   50.12
5 of 2017  5-8-2017    35.05
14 of 2017 - -         T.S.O. IV
3 of 2020  8-31-2020   T.S.O. IV
2 of 2024  4-8-2024    35.13
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
8, 1994    7-11-1994   130.04
7 of 1996  8-12-1996   93.02
8, 1996    9-24-1996   33.02
9, 1996    11-11-1996  33.03
2, 1997    1-13-1997   T.S.O. Table I
5, 1997    3-26-1997   150.01 -
                       150.04
7, 1997    6-9-1997    T.S.O. Table II
8, 1997    5-12-1997   110.02
9, 1997    7-14-1997   53.01
11, 1997   9-8-1997    90.01 -
                       90.04
5, 1998    6-8-1998    52.01
8, 1998    7-13-1998   34.01 -
                       34.03
9, 1998    8-10-1998   32.01
2, 1999    2-23-1999   130.03
7, 1999    6-22-1999   Ch. 72 Sch. I
8, 1999    8-24-1999   Ch. 72 Sch. II
9, 1999    10-11-1999  T.S.O. Table I
11, 1999   11-23-1999  Ch. 72 Sch. II
15, 1999   12-13-1999  94.01 -
                       94.03
2, 2000    6-12-2000   Ch. 72 Sch. II
3, 2000    10-9-2000   130.01
4, 2000    11-27-2000  93.01
3, 2001    3-12-2001   93.03
5, 2001    5-14-2001   70.02
6, 2001    7-9-2001    Ch. 72 Sch. II
9, 2001    10-8-2001   94.10
                       95.01 -
10, 2001   - -2001     95.05,
                       95.99
1, 2002    2-11-2002   Ch. 72 Sch. II
5, 2002    6-13-2002   30.02
6, 2002    7-8-2002    53.01
                       93.15 -
8, 2002    11-12-2002  93.20,
                       93.99
1, 2003    1-13-2003   52.01 -
                       52.03
2, 2003    2- -2003    T.S.O. Table V
6, 2003    8-11-2003   T.S.O. Table I
7, 2003    9-2-2003    53.01
8, 2003    9-8-2003    T.S.O. Table III
                       111.01 -
14, 2003   12-8-2003   111.09,
                       111.99
15, 2003   12-8-2003   Ch. 72 Sch. II
3 of 2004  7-12-2004   93.07,
                       93.99
4 of 2004  4-12-2004   T.S.O. Table III
5 of 2004  4-12-2004   Adopting Ordinance
6 of 2004  11-8-2004   T.S.O. Table V
7 of 2004  6-14-2004   50.09
2 of 2005  5-9-2005    Ch. 72, Sch. II
3 of 2005  9-12-2005   30.02
1 of 2006  2-13-2006   T.S.O. Table III
2 of 2006  4-10-2006   T.S.O. Table I
                       153.01 -
                       153.07,
                       153.15 -
                       153.18,
                       153.25,
4 of 2006  8-14-2006   153.26,
                       153.35 -
                       153.39,
                       153.50,
                       153.51,
                       153.99
5 of 2006  5-12-2006   T.S.O. Table I
7 of 2006  8-14-2006   T.S.O. Table III
8 of 2006  11-13-2006  Ch. 72, Sch. II
                       70.99,
                       Ch. 73, Sch. I,
2 of 2007  6-11-2007   II,
                       III,
                       IV
5 of 2007  10-10-2007  Ch. 72, Sch. II
6 of 2007  9-10-2007   53.02
                       152.01 -
                       152.13,
                       152.20 -
                       152.22,
8 of 2007  11-13-2007  152.30 -
                       152.37,
                       152.50 -
                       152.56,
                       152.99
15 of 2007 12-10-2007  T.S.O. Table III
                       54.01 -
                       54.05,
                       54.15 -
16 of 2007 12-10-2007  54.23,
                       54.35 -
                       54.37,
                       54.50 -
                       54.55
1 of 2008  1-14-2008   T.S.O. Table I
2 of 2008  2-11-2008   T.S.O. Table III
4A of 2008 5-12-2008   Ch. 73, Sch. V
5 of 2008  5-12-2008   93.02
6 of 2008  6-9-2008    96.10
7 of 2008  6-9-2008    T.S.O. Table I
8 of 2008  6-9-2008    T.S.O. Table I
9 of 2008  6-9-2008    50.10
10 of 2008 6-9-2008    T.S.O. Table III
11 of 2008 8-11-2008   52.01 -
                       52.03
12 of 2008 8-11-2008   T.S.O. Table III
                       97.01,
1 of 2009  2-9-2009    97.02,
                       97.99
3 of 2009  2-9-2009    50.09
6 of 2009  4-13-2009   T.S.O. Table I
7 of 2009  7-13-2009   96.01,
                       96.99
1 of 2010  6-14-2010   Ch. 72, Sch. II
2 of 2010  7-12-2010   53.01
3          10-11-2010  54.50 -
                       54.55
5 of 2010  9-13-2010   Ch. 72, Sch. II
2 of 2012  5-14-2012   30.02
4 of 2012  5-14-2012   T.S.O. Table III
6 of 2012  8-13-2012   T.S.O. Table I
—        8-13-2012   35.01
—        8-13-2012   35.01
9 of 2012  8-13-2012   Ch. 72, Sch. III
                       98.01 -
10 of 2012 8-13-2012   98.04,
                       98.98,
                       98.99
11 of 2012 8-13-2012   70.03,
                       70.99
13 of 2012 11-12-2012  53.03,
                       53.99
19 of 2012 12-10-2012  53.02
20 of 2012 12-10-2012  T.S.O. Table III
1 of 2013  2-11-2013   53.01
3 of 2013  2-11-2013   54.50 -
                       54.55
                       152.05,
4 of 2013  2-11-2013   152.07,
                       152.20,
                       152.31
6 of 2013  6-10-2013   T.S.O. Table III
7 of 2013  4-8-2013    94.01
8 of 2013  6-10-2013   Ch. 72, Sch. II
9 of 2013  5-13-2013   50.09
11 of 2013 7-8-2013    94.10,
                       94.99
13 of 2013 8-12-2013   53.04
15 of 2013 9-9-2013    Ch. 72, Sch. II
17 of 2013 11-11-2013  Ch. 73, Sch. I
20 of 2013 12-9-2013   31.01
1 of 2014  2-10-2014   T.S.O. Table III
                       152.01 -
                       152.13,
                       152.20 -
                       152.22,
3 of 2014  4-14-2014   152.30 -
                       152.37,
                       152.50 -
                       152.56,
                       152.99
                       51.01 -
5 of 2014  4-14-2014   51.08,
                       51.99
6 of 2014  6-9-2014    53.01
7 of 2014  6-9-2013    54.50 -
                       54.55
9 of 2014  6-9-2014    30.01
                       98.01 -
10 of 2014 7-14-2014   98.04,
                       98.98,
                       98.99
11 of 2014 7-14-2014   93.01,
                       93.99
12 of 2014 9-8-2014    52.01 -
                       52.03
13 of 2014 9-8-2014    30.03
14 of 2014 10-13-2014  53.01
15 of 2014 10-13-2014  53.01
2 of 2015  5-11-2015   Ch. 72, Sch. II
3 of 2015  6-15-2015   94.01 -
                       94.03
4 of 2015  6-15-2015   Adopting Ordinance
7 of 2015  7-13-2015   99.01 -
                       99.11
8 of 2015  9-14-2015   51.09
10 of 2015 10-12-2015  53.15 -
                       53.19
12 of 2015 10-12-2015  34.04
16 of 2015 12-30-2015  34.05
1 of 2016  1-11-2016   50.11
3 of 2016  3-14-2016   52.04
4 of 2016  4-11-2016   94.01 -
                       94.03
5 of 2016  4-28-2016   33.03
6 of 2016  5-9-2016    35.04
7 of 2016  6-13-2016   35.03
8 of 2016  7-11-2016   54.50 -
                       54.55
11 of 2016 9-12-2016   34.06
13 of 2016 10-31-2016  33.03
3 of 2017  2-13-2017   154.01
4 of 2017  4-10-2017   30.04
5 of 2017  5-18-2017   T.S.O. II
7 of 2017  7-10-2017   51.10,
                       51.99
11 of 2017 11-13-2017  70.03,
                       70.99
13 of 2017 12-11-2017  53.01
1 of 2018  4-9-2018    31.01
2 of 2018  5-14-2018   35.06
3 of 2018  6-11-2018   53.01
4 of 2018  6-11-2018   91.10 -
                       91.13
5 of 2018  8-13-2018   Adopting Ordinance
8 of 2018  10-8-2018   T.S.O. I
10 of 2018 11-12-2018  53.05
11 of 2018 11-12-2018  35.07
12 of 2018 11-12-2018  35.08
13 of 2018 11-12-2018  T.S.O. I
2 of 2019  1-14-2019   31.01
6 of 2019  5-13-2019   35.09
10 of 2019 8-12-2019   50.09
11 of 2019 8-12-2019   92.03
19 of 2019 11-18-2019  35.10
20 of 2019 11-18-2019  35.11
1 of 2020  4-13-2020   Adopting Ordinance
8 of 2020  8-10-2020   130.06
2 of 2021  3-8-2021    53.05
9 of 2021  5-10-2021   Ch. 72, Sch. II
11 of 2021 11-8-2021   51.11
13 of 2021 8-9-2021    T.S.O. I
                       33.04,
                       35.11,
16 of 2021 10-11-2021  111.03,
                       111.06,
                       111.08,
                       130.01
17 of 2021 10-11-2021  33.05
19 of 2021 11-8-2021   35.12
20 of 2021 11-8-2021   53.01
21 of 2021 11-8-2021   71.02
22 of 2021 12-13-2021  35.10
2 of 2022  5-9-2022    T.S.O. II
3 of 2022  5-9-2022    52.01,
                       53.01
5 of 2022  6-13-2022   52.01,
                       53.01
6 of 2022  9-12-2022   Adopting Ordinance
13 of 2022 11-14-2022  52.01
5 of 2023  3-13-2023   52.05
10 of 2023 9-11-2024   35.10
11 of 2023 9-11-2024   70.03,
                       70.99
12 of 2023 9-11-2024   70.04,
                       70.99
17 of 2023 11-13-2023  31.01
1 of 2024  2-12-2024   Adopting Ordinance
2 of 2024  2-12-2024   51.11
3 of 2024  4-8-2024    T.S.O. V
9 of 2024  6-10-2024   T.S.O. I
10 of 2024 6-10-2024   92.03
11 of 2024 6-10-2024   51.11
15 of 2024 10-14-2024  92.03
18 of 2024 10-2-2024   31.02
                      
 
