WINDFALL, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2025-01, passed 4-22-2025; and
State legislation current through 2024 Indiana Legislative Service, Pamphlet
No. 3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
Adopting Ordinance
 
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-01
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF WINDFALL, INDIANA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OR ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Town of Windfall
are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and
substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the Town and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize the Town of Windfall to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile
any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or
published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form;
and
WHEREAS, the Town of Windfall's legislative authority has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Town of
Windfall of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances
in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the Town
and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the Town that this ordinance take effect at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF WINDFALL,
INDIANA:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Town of Windfall as revised,
amended, restate. Codified and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and
shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the Town of Windfall, Indiana.”
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
         Title 1: General Provisions
               10.   General Provisions
               11.   Town Standards
         Title III: Administration
               30.   Town Council
               31.   Officials and Employees
               32.   Organizations
               33.   Finances and Fees
               34.   General Town Policies
         Title V: Public Works
               50.   Garbage
               51.   Sewer
               52.   Water
         Title VII: Traffic Code
               70.   General Provisions
               71.   Traffic Schedules
               72   Parking Schedules
         Title IX: General Regulations
               90.   Nuisances
               91.   Animals
               92.   Parks and Recreation
               93.   Fair Housing
               94.   Fire Prevention
         Title XI: Business Regulations
               110.   General Provisions
               111.   Transient Merchants, Peddlers
               112.   Alcoholic Beverages
               113.   Recreational Establishments
               114.   Sexually Oriented Businesses
         Title XIII: General Offenses
               130.   Curfew for Minors
               131.   Offenses Against Public Order, Safety, and Property
         Title XV: Land Usage
               150.   Housing and Street Numbering
               151.   Building Regulations; Construction
               152.   Mobile, Manufactured Homes
               153.   Storm Water Regulations
         Table of Special Ordinances
               I.   Annexations
               II.   Land Vacations
               III.   Interlocal Agreements
               IV.   Street Names
               V.   Creation of Funds
               VI.   Tax Sale Certificates
               VII   Franchise Agreements
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase r sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Town Council and the Clerk of the Town of Windfall is
hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the
Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such code shall be in full force and effect s provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this Town, and shall take effect at the earliest date provided
by law.
ADOPTED by the Town Council of the Town of Windfall, Indiana on this 13th day
of February, 2024.
TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF WINDFALL, INDIANA
Rob Shanks /s/
Rob Shanks
Theresa Simmons /s/
Theresa Simmons
Bill Dewitt /s/
Bill Dewitt
Marva Ryan /s/
Marva Ryan
Attest: Paula Long /s/
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Windfall
Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances,” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK/TREASURER. The Clerk/Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of Windfall, Indiana.
      COUNTY. The County of Tipton, in which Windall, Indiana is located.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      TOWN. The Town of Windfall, Indiana.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships in which the town is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Includes printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended, or
its application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity
does not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid
section or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any
section shall not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability
incurred under the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides.
   (B)   The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the
purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of
the penalty, forfeiture, or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   (1)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a
new chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter or section.
      (2)   In addition to an indication thereof, as may appear in the text of
the proposed ordinance, a caption or title shall be shown in concise form above
the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town published and subsequently amended, the previous code
section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, §      ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for the second and subsequent
violations, except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Town seal
§ 11.01 TOWN SEAL.
   The Council adopts a common seal bearing the inscription “Tipton County —
Windfall, Indiana Seal.”
(Prior Code, § 36-5-2-9)
Statutory reference:
   Regulations on town seal, see I.C. 36-5-2-9
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   FINANCES AND FEES
      
34.   GENERAL TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
Voting Wards
   
30.01   Description of wards
   
30.02   Parts of town not described
   
30.03   Parts of town in more than one ward
Town Council Elections
   
30.15   At-large elections
   
30.16   Staggering of terms of office
Statutory reference:
   Election districts, decennial redistricting, see I.C. 36-5-2-4.1
   Election of members of the board, see I.C. 36-5-2-5
   Filling vacancies in offices, see I.C. 3-13-3 et seq.
VOTING WARDS
§ 30.01 DESCRIPTION OF WARDS.
   The Council hereby divides the town into districts for the purpose of
conducting elections of town officers.
   (A)   Ward One. All of the portion of the town lying South of the centerline
of Sherman Street and West of the centerline of Independence Street (State Road
213).
   (B)   Ward Two. All of the portion of the town lying South of the centerline
of Sherman Street and East of the centerline of Independence Street (State Road
213).
   (C)   Ward Three. All of the portion of the town lying North of the
centerline of Sherman Street and East of the centerline of Independence Street
(State Road 213).
   (D)   Ward Four. All of the portion of the town lying North of the
centerline of Sherman Street and West of the centerline of Independence Street
(State Road 213).
(Prior Code, § 36-5-2-4.1)
§ 30.02 PARTS OF TOWN NOT DESCRIBED.
   Any part of the town which has not been described as included in one of the
wards described in §
30.01 is included within the ward that is contiguous to that part, and contains
the least population of all wards contiguous to that part.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-2-4.1)
§ 30.03 PARTS OF TOWN IN MORE THAN ONE WARD.
   If any part of the town is described in this subchapter as being in more
than one ward, it is included within the ward that is one of the wards in which
that part is listed in §
30.01, is contiguous to that part, and contains the least population of any
such ward.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-2-4.1)
TOWN COUNCIL ELECTIONS
§ 30.15 AT-LARGE ELECTIONS.
   The Council provides that its members are to be elected at large by the
voters of the whole town.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-2-5)
§ 30.16 STAGGERING OF TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   It is in the best interest of the citizens of the town to have the
election of the Town Council coincide with the general elections conducted by
the county.
   (B)   Four members of the Town Legislative Body were scheduled for election
in the year 2023 and said positions, in accordance with Ord. 2014-09 (as
amended), were elected in 2023 by way of a general municipal election conducted
by the town for a term as detailed hereafter.
   (C)   (1)   Two members of the Town Legislative Body were elected in the
2023 general election conducted by the town and shall serve a term of one year
commencing in 2024.
      (2)   Said positions shall be subject to a general election run by the
town in 2024 and every four years thereafter, with said term of office being
four years thereafter.
   (D)   The remaining two members of the Town Legislative Body currently
scheduled for election in the year 2023 were elected in 2023 by way of a
general municipal election run by the town for an initial term of office of
three years.
   (E)   Hereafter the aforementioned two members of the Town Legislative Body
elected at the municipal election conducted in 2023 for a term of three years
shall be elected at a general election conducted by the town commencing in 2026
and every four years thereafter, with said term of office being four years
thereafter.
   (F)   The four positions elected in the 2023 municipal election were
designated as one-year or three-year terms in order to comply with divisions
(C) and (E) above.
   (G)   All positions which are eligible for election in any given year,
commencing in 2023 and hereafter, shall be required to participate in the
primary election on the first Tuesday in May of the applicable year if more
than one candidate has filed a declaration of candidacy for the given position.
   (H)   The term of office of each town officer begins on January 1 after the
election.
   (I)   The town shall not conduct any election in a year following an
election of the President of the United States of America as required by I.C.
3-10-7-2.9(c)(1).
   (J)   The elections for the Town Council positions and the Clerk/Treasurer
position may be conducted by general or municipal election.
(Ord. 2023-11, passed 7-11-2023)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Town Marshal
   
31.02   Legal holidays
   
31.03   Nondiscrimination policy
Nepotism Policy
   
31.15   Purpose
   
31.16   Definitions
   
31.17   Employment policy
   
31.18   Contracting policy
   
31.19   Submission of compliance statements
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 TOWN MARSHAL.
   (A)   The office of Town Marshal is hereby established.
   (B)   The Marshal may appoint no more than three Deputy Marshals.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall serve as a Deputy Marshal until that person
posts a bond in the same amount as that posted by the Marshal.
      (2)   No person shall also serve until the appointment of that person to
the position of Deputy Marshal is approved by the Council.
   (D)   The appointment of every Deputy Marshal shall expire on January 1 of
each year.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-7-1)
Statutory reference:
   Town Marshal, see I.C. 36-5-7-1
§ 31.02 LEGAL HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   The Council shall, in the annual salary ordinance, designate the legal
holidays for which all town officers and employees shall be compensated.
   (B)   (1)   When any of these holidays, other than Sunday, falls on Saturday
or Sunday, the Council may designate another day for the observance of that
holiday.
      (2)   This section shall not affect any action taken by the Council while
in regular or special session.
      (3)   Any actions taken by the Council on any such holiday shall be valid
for all purposes.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-9-1) (Ord. 2021-16, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Legal holidays, see I.C. 1-1-9-1
   Local commissions authorized, powers, exclusivity of remedy, appeal, see
I.C. 22-9-1-12.1
   Related provisions, see I.C. 5-16-6-1 and I.A.C. 1-1-1 et. seq.
§ 31.03 NONDISCRIMINATION POLICY.
   (A)   Every contract to which the town is a party, including franchises
granted to public utilities, shall contain a provision requiring the contractor
and his or her subcontractors not to discriminate against any employee or
applicant for employment, to be employed in the performance of such contract,
with respect to his or her hire, tenure, terms, conditions, or privileges of
employment or any matter directly or indirectly related to employment, because
of his or her race, religion, color, sex, handicap, national origin, or
ancestry.
   (B)   Breach of this covenant may be regarded as a material breach of the
contract.
(Prior Code, § 22-9-1-10)
Statutory reference:
   Public contracts to contain nondiscrimination clause, see I.C. 22-9-1-10
NEPOTISM POLICY
§ 31.15 PURPOSE.
   Decisions about hiring, promoting, evaluating, awarding salary increases,
job assignment, terminating employees, and awarding of contracts for goods,
services, and public works projects should be based on the qualifications,
performance, and ability of the employee or contractor. Every attempt to avoid
favoritism and conflicts of interest in employment related contractual
decisions instills confidence of the electorate in its government. The purpose
of this policy is to prohibit certain individuals from being employed by the
town in a position in which a RELATIVE, as defined in §
31.16, provides direct supervision. Additionally, this policy regulates
contracting with relatives of individuals employed by the town for goods,
services, and public works projects.
(Ord. 2-2012, passed 6-25-2012)
§ 31.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BREAK IN EMPLOYMENT. Termination, retirement, or resignation of an employee
from the town. A BREAK IN EMPLOYMENT does not occur due to absence from the
workplace while on a paid or unpaid leave, including, but not limited to,
vacation, personal days, sick or family medical leave, or worker’s compensation
leave, or if the employment is terminated followed by immediate re-employment
by the town without loss of payroll time.
   DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION.
      (1)   An elected officer or employee who is in a position to affect the
terms and conditions of another individual’s employment.
      (2)   Such affect may include, but is not limited to, making decisions
about work assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement, or performance
evaluation. Decisions and action taken by the Town Council regarding the
passage of annual salary ordinances, annual budgets, and personnel policies are
excluded from this definition.
   ELECTED OFFICIAL. Town Council members, Town Clerk/Treasurer, and Town Court
Judge.
   EMPLOYED. An individual who works for or is appointed to any department or
board of the town on a full-time, part-time, temporary, intermittent, seasonal,
hourly, or contractual basis.
   RELATIVE. Includes any of the following: spouse, parent or step-parent,
child or step-child, sister, brother, step-sister, step-brother, niece, nephew,
aunt, uncle, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, sister-in-law, and brother-in-law.
   TOWN. The Town of Windfall, Indiana, and its boards and departments.
(Ord. 2-2012, passed 6-25-2012)
§ 31.17 EMPLOYMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Individuals who are RELATIVES, as defined in §
31.16, of existing employees may not be employed by the town in a position that
results in one relative being in direct line of supervision of the other
relative.
   (B)   An individual who is employed by the town on July 1,2012, is not
subject to this nepotism policy unless the individual has a BREAK IN
EMPLOYMENT, as defined in §
31.16, with the town.
   (C)   If an individual is employed by the town and the individual’s relative
begins serving a term of elected office, the individual may continue his or her
employment with the town and retain his or her position or rank even if that
individual’s position or rank would be in the direct line of supervision of the
individual’s relative.
   (D)   (1)   While an individual who is employed by the town when the
individual’s relative begins serving a term of elected office may continue his
or her employment with the town
      (2)   That individual may not be promoted to a position or rank if the
new position or rank would place that individual within direct line of
supervision of the individual’s relative.
(Ord. 2-2012, passed 6-25-2012)
§ 31.18 CONTRACTING POLICY.
   The town may enter into or renew a contract for the procurement of goods,
services, or public works projects with a relative of an elected official or a
business entity in which a relative has an ownership interest if:
   (A)   The elected official files with the town a full disclosure, which must
be:
      (1)   In writing;
      (2)   Describes the contract or purchase to be made by the town; and
      (3)   Describes the relationship the elected official has to the
individual or business entity that provides the contract for goods, services,
or public works projects.
   (B)   The appropriate town board or department:
      (1)   Issues a certified statement that the contract amount or purchase
price was the lowest amount or price bid offered; or
      (2)   Issues a certified statement detailing the reasons why the
particular vendor or contractor was selected.
   (C)   The town satisfies all other requirements of the state’s public
purchasing (I.C. 5-22) or public works projects (I.C. 36-1-12Cite) statutes;
and
   (D)   The elected official complies with disclosure provisions of I.C. 35-
44.1-4-4.
(Ord. 2-2012, passed 6-25-2012)
§ 31.19 SUBMISSION OF COMPLIANCE STATEMENTS.
   In addition to any other disclosures or certifications required by this
subchapter, the following actions must be taken:
   (A)   The annual report filed by the town with the State Board of Accounts,
under I.C. 5-11-13-1, must include a statement that the Town Council has
implemented a nepotism policy with regard to employment matters and the
contracting for the procurement of goods and services.
   (B)   Prior to December 31 of each year, each elected official shall submit
to the Town Council a certification in writing, subject to penalties of
perjury, that said officer has not violated the provisions of the town’s
nepotism policy with regard to employment matters and the contracting for the
procurement of goods and services.
(Ord. 2-2012, passed 6-25-2012)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Ordinance Violations Bureau
   
32.01   Establishment of Bureau and Clerk
   
32.02   Schedule of ordinance and code provisions
   
32.03   Admission of violation; right to trial
   
32.04   Disposition of sums collected
   
32.05   Court costs fee
   
32.06   Violations
Parks and Recreation Board
   
32.20   Composition
   
32.21   Powers
   
32.22   Compensation
Statutory reference:
   Park and recreation law, see I.C. 36-10-3-1
ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF BUREAU AND CLERK.
   (A)   The definitions in I.C. 36-1-2 apply throughout this subchapter.
   (B)   The town hereby establishes an Ordinance Violations Bureau. Upon the
creation of the Bureau, the town appoints a Violations Clerk to the
administrator of the Bureau, who shall be the Clerk/Treasurer.
   (C)   The Violations Clerk may accept written appearances, waivers of trial,
admissions of violations, and payment of civil penalties of not more than $100
in ordinance violation cases, subject to the schedule prescribed under §
32.02.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 32.02 SCHEDULE OF ORDINANCE AND CODE PROVISIONS.
   Upon the appointment or designation of the Violations Clerk, as provided in
§
32.01, all ordinances or codes in effect in the town are subject to this
Violations Bureau. Civil penalties shall be paid to, receipted, and accounted
for by the Clerk under procedures provided for by the State Board of Accounts.
Payment of civil penalties under this subchapter may be made in person, by
mail, or to an agent or agents designated by the town.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 32.03 ADMISSION OF VIOLATION; RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   (A)   A person charged with an ordinance or code violation is entitled to a
trial before a court as provided by law, unless the person waives the right to
trial and enters an admission of the violation with the Violations Clerk. Upon
such an admission, the Clerk shall assess and receive from the violator the
amount prescribed by the schedule of civil penalties established under §
32.02.
   (B)   If a person charged with a violation wants to exercise the right to a
trial, the person shall appear before the Violations Clerk and deny the
violation or enter a written denial with the Clerk.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 32.04 DISPOSITION OF SUMS COLLECTED.
   All sums collected by the Violations Clerk as civil penalties for ordinance
violations shall be accounted for and paid to the town, as provided by law.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 32.05 COURT COSTS FEE.
   An ordinance violation admitted under this subchapter does not constitute a
judgment for the purposes of I.C. 33-37, and an ordinance violation costs fee
may not be collected from the defendant under I.C. 33-40-6Cite. In addition, an
ordinance violation processed under this subchapter may not be considered for
the purposes of I.C. 33-37-4-2 when determining the percentage of ordinance
violations prosecuted in certain courts.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
§ 32.06 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If a person does any of the following, the Clerk shall report this
fact to the official having the responsibility to prosecute ordinance violation
cases for the municipal corporation:
      (1)   Denies an ordinance or code violation under this subchapter;
      (2)   Fails to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk
after having entered an admission of violation; or
      (3)   Fails to deny or admit the violation under this subchapter.
   (B)   Proceedings in court against the person shall then be initiated for
the alleged ordinance violation.
(Ord. passed - -2000)
PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 32.20 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Council hereby establishes the Town Department of Parks and
Recreation.
   (B)   The Town Department of Parks and Recreation shall consist of the Town
Park and Recreation Board and the Park Superintendent.
   (C)   The Town Park and Recreation Board shall consist of four members
appointed by the Town Council and the following ex-officio members:
      (1)   A member of the governing body of the school corporation selected
by that body; and
      (2)   A member of the governing body of the library district selected by
that body.
(Prior Code, § 36-10-3-1) (Ord. passed 5-2-1978; Ord. passed 9-18-1979)
§ 32.21 POWERS.
   The Town Park and Recreation Board shall have all the powers granted to such
boards by I.C. 36-10-3-1 et seq., except that the Town Council shall retain
exclusive jurisdiction over the Town Community Building.
(Prior code, § 36-10-3-1) (Ord. passed 5-2-1978; Ord. passed 9-18-1979)
§ 32.22 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Every member of the Town Park and Recreation Board shall serve without
compensation.
   (B)   The Town Council may approve the reimbursement of members of the Town
Park and Recreation Board for any expenditure incurred which was directly
related to park and recreation services.
(Prior Code, § 36-10-3-1) (Ord. passed 5-2-1978)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCES AND FEES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Acceptance of cash, check, money order
   
33.02   Establishing Internal Control Standards
   
33.03   Payment of claims
Authorized Expenses and Payment Methods for Town Employees
   
33.15   Credit card use
   
33.16   Reimbursement policy
   
33.17   Membership dues
Fee Schedules
   
33.30   Community Center schedule
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 ACCEPTANCE OF CASH, CHECK, MONEY ORDER.
   (A)   The use of all credit or debit cards shall not be authorized for
payment of utility bills due and owing to the town.
   (B)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall make necessary arrangements to accept and
secure payments for any amounts owed to the town for municipal services in the
form of cash, check, or money order only.
(Ord. 2023-10, passed 5-9-2023)
§ 33.02 ESTABLISHING INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts as policy the Internal Control Standards as set
forth by the State Board of Accounts Uniform Internal Control Standards for
Indiana Political Subdivisions Manual as expressly written and published by the
State Board of Accounts in September, 2015, and as amended from time to time.
   (B)   At the time the annual financial report is filed, the Clerk/Treasurer,
as fiscal officer of the town, shall certify in writing that the Uniform
Internal Control Standards for Indiana Political Subdivisions have been
adopted, and shall certify that the personnel have been trained as required by
law.
(Ord. 2016-002, passed 12-14-2016)
§ 33.03 PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   The Clerk/Treasurer of the town is hereby authorized to make payment
of the following claims and/or claim types:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
         (a)   The United States Government; or
         (b)   An agency or a political subdivision of the United States
Government.
      (2)   Licenses fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; and
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advances.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance; and/or
      (14)   Reimbursements to employees of the town so long as proper
documentation is presented at the time of request for reimbursement and so long
as the reimbursement does not exceed $500.
   (B)   Such payment of expenses listed in this section must be supported by
fully itemized invoice or bill and property certified as correct by the Clerk/
Treasurer. Such advance payment of these claims shall be reviewed and allowed
at the Town Council’s next regularly scheduled or special meeting following the
foregoing pre-approved payment of expense by the Clerk/Treasurer.
(Ord. 2023-04, passed - -)
AUTHORIZED EXPENSES AND PAYMENT METHODS FOR TOWN EMPLOYEES
§ 33.15 CREDIT CARD USE.
   (A)   The use of credit cards shall be authorized under certain conditions.
   (B)   The use of credit cards by any employee or authorized agent of the
town shall be subject to, and in compliance with, the provisions detailed in
the provisions and restrictions on credit card use detailed in the town policy
on credit card use, which can be found in the employee handbook.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 10-27-2020)
§ 33.16 REIMBURSEMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Any request for reimbursement including, but not limited to, mileage,
shall be submitted with applicable documentation or receipts not later than 60
days after the expense has been incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Failure to submit the applicable request and documentation
within 60 days shall render the request for reimbursement null and void.
      (2)   No reimbursements shall be paid to any employee or official of the
town for a reimbursement request submitted more than 60 days after the expense
is incurred unless a timely request for reimbursement, together with applicable
documentation, has been received by the Clerk/Treasurer within the applicable
time period detailed herein.
(Reimbursement Policy, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 33.17 MEMBERSHIP DUES.
   The Council may budget and appropriate funds to provide for the payment of
membership dues for the town, its elected and appointed officials, and the
members of its boards, councils, departments, or agencies in any local,
regional, state, or national association of a civic, educational, or
governmental nature which have as their purpose the improvement of municipal
operations.
(Prior Code, § 36-5-4-1)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal administration, see I.C. 36-5-4-1
FEE SCHEDULE
§ 33.30 COMMUNITY CENTER SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Rental of the Community Center shall be charged according to the
following schedule.
 
Rental Type                              Rate or Fee
Local business hourly rate (two-hour     $200, and $50 for each additional hour
minimum)
Local non-business hourly rate (two-hour $150, and $50 for each additional hour
minimum)
Non-profit organizations                 No charge
 
   (B)   All rentals shall also be charged any applicable taxes on the
aforementioned rental rates.
   (C)   No deposit shall be necessary, but the renting entity shall be
responsible for all costs of cleaning and any damages caused by the renting
entity or any guests attending the event, and shall be bound by all terms and
provisions of the “Community Building Rental Contract” attached hereto and
incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 11-17-2009; Ord. 2023-02, passed 2-14-2023; Ord. 2024-04,
passed 8-13-2024)
CHAPTER 34: GENERAL TOWN POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Establishing authority to designate local holidays
   
34.02   Written approval for removal of town property
Public Records Access
   
34.15   Purpose and interpretation
   
34.16   Public records availability
   
34.17   Public Information Officer
   
34.18   Public records requests
   
34.19   Response to public records requests
   
34.20   Inspection of public records
   
34.21   Copying fees
Americans with Disabilities Act
   
34.35   Adoption
   
34.36   Employment
   
34.37   Effective communication
   
34.38   Modifications
   
34.39   Limitations
   
34.40   Grievance procedure; complaints
   
34.41   Appeals
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHING AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE LOCAL HOLIDAYS.
   The Council may designate certain days as town holidays to commemorate
historical events or in recognition of community celebrations.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-10-1)
Statutory reference:
   Indiana Day, see I.C. 1-1-10-1
§ 34.02 WRITTEN APPROVAL FOR REMOVAL OF TOWN PROPERTY.
   (A)   All equipment, computers, printers, fax machines, or any other
property owned by the town shall remain on town-owned property unless removal
is approved, in writing, by the Town Council.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the equipment, vehicle, or town
property issued to, or under the control of, the Town Marshal.
(Equipment and Town Property Policy, passed 12-8-2020)
PUBLIC RECORDS ACCESS
§ 34.15 PURPOSE AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide rules by which the town
and its departments implement and ensure compliance with the provisions of I.C.
5-14-3 (Access to Public Records) for the town’s public records.
   (B)   (1)   The provisions of this subchapter shall be liberally interpreted
and construed to promote full access to the town’s public records in order to
assure continuing public confidence in the government.
      (2)   Provided, that when making public records available, the town shall
prevent unreasonable invasions of privacy, shall protect public records from
damage or disorganization, and shall prevent excessive interference with
essential government functions.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed - -2021)
§ 34.16 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABILITY.
   Public records shall be made available for public inspection and copying
pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed - -2021)
§ 34.17 PUBLIC INFORMATION OFFICER.
   (A)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall serve as the Public Information Officer, and
serve as the point of contact for members of the public who request disclosure
of public records.
   (B)   The Public Information Officer shall be responsible for implementation
of and compliance with I.C. 5-14-3. The Public Information Officer may utilize
the Town Manager (if any), the Town Attorney, the Office Administrator, or
other town officers or employees to assist in responding to public information
requests as necessary.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed - -2021)
§ 34.18 PUBLIC RECORDS REQUESTS.
   (A)   Public records may be inspected and/or copies may be obtained under
the following procedures:
      (1)   A request for public records shall be directed to the Public
Information Officer or his or her designee.
      (2)   A request for public records shall be made on a specific form which
shall be in writing and include the following information:
         (a)   The requester’s name, mailing address, phone number, and email
address (if one is available);
         (b)   The date of the request;
         (c)   A clear indication that the document is a public records
request;
         (d)   A clear description of the public records requested for
inspection and/or copying;
         (e)   If the request is for a document which lists individuals, a
statement that the list will not be used for any commercial purposes or that
the requester is authorized or directed by law to obtain the list of
individuals for commercial purposes, with a specific reference to such law; and
         (f)   Whether the request is for printed or digital copies of the
public record.
   (B)   The Public Information Officer shall develop and maintain the form to
facilitate public record requests.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed - -2021)
§ 34.19 RESPONSE TO PUBLIC RECORDS REQUESTS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   The Public Information Officer shall, to the extent
practicable, assist requesters in identifying the public records sought.
         (b)   There is no obligation to allow inspection or provide a copy of
a public record on demand.
      (2)   (a)   The Public Information Officer shall respond to a request for
public information made in person within seven business days of the receipt of
the written request form.
         (b)   The Public Information Officer shall respond to a request for
public information received by mail or email within 14 business days of
receipt.
         (c)   All responses to requests for public information shall be in
writing.
   (B)   The Public Information Officer shall make one or more of the following
responses:
      (1)   The request for inspection of public records is approved and
whether an appointment for inspection needs to be scheduled by the requester;
      (2)   The request has been received by the Public Information Officer,
that additional time is needed to respond to the request, and stating a
reasonable estimate of the time required to respond;
      (3)   The request has been received by the Public Information Officer,
and the records shall be provided on a partial or installment basis as the
records are identified, located, assembled, and/or made ready for inspection or
copying; or
      (4)   (a)   The request is denied, in whole or in part, whether by
withholding a requested record or redacting a requested record, stating the
specific exemption(s) prohibiting disclosure, and a brief explanation of how
the exemption applies to each withheld and redacted record.
         (b)   The Public Information Officer shall immediately notify the
requester if, after responding to a request for public records and approving
the request, the Public Information Officer identifies requested public records
or information that are exempt from disclosure.
   (C)   Additional time to respond to a request may be based upon the town’s
need to:
      (1)   Clarify the intent of the request;
      (2)   Identify, locate, assemble, and/or make the records ready for
inspection or disclosure;
      (3)   Notify third persons or agencies affected by the request; or
      (4)   Determine whether any of the records or information requested is
exempt from disclosure and whether a denial should be made as to all or part of
the request.
   (D)   If a requester fails to clarify the request after receiving a response
from the Public Information Officers seeking clarification, the Public
Information Officer need not respond further to the request.
   (E)   (1)   When a request for public records is received that concerns a
subject known to involve litigation that is pending, threatened, or
anticipated, the Public Information Officer shall promptly notify the Town
Attorney of the request.
      (2)   Each page of the records provided to the requester shall be
sequentially numbered or otherwise uniquely identified.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed - -2021)
§ 34.20 INSPECTION OF PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   Public records shall be inspected at the Town Hall during regular
business hours, excluding legal holidays, provided that there is no obligation
to allow inspection immediately upon a demand.
   (B)   The Public Information Officer may request that the person seeking to
inspect public records schedule an appointment for inspection.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed - -2021)
§ 34.21 COPYING FEES.
   (A)   No fee will be charged for the inspection of a public record; for
locating public records in response to a request and making the records
available for inspection or copying; or for searching for public records,
redacting portions of a record which are exempt from disclosure, or preparing
an index of exempt documents.
   (B)   The fee for certification of documents shall be $2 per document.
   (C)   The fee for copies shall be $1 per page for non-color copies and $2
per page for color copies.
   (D)   The copying fee for any request for which the response will be
oversized documents, color photographs or reproductions, tape recordings, and
computer disks shall be the actual expense for copying, including the cost of
materials.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed - -2021)
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT
§ 34.35 ADOPTION.
   (A)   The town adopts the 2010 Americans with Disabilities Act Standards for
Accessible Design and the 2005 Guidelines for Accessible Public Rights-of-Way.
   (B)   In accordance with the requirements of Title II of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), being 28 C.F.R. Part 35, the town will not
discriminate against qualified individuals with disabilities on the basis of
disability in its services, programs, or activities.
(Res. 2014-1, passed 7-9-2014)
§ 34.36 EMPLOYMENT.
   The town does not discriminate on the basis of disability in its hiring or
employment practices and complies with all regulations promulgated by the U.S.
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission under Title I of the ADA, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
(Res. 2014-1, passed 7-9-2014)
§ 34.37 EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION.
   (A)   The town will generally, upon request, use its best efforts to provide
appropriate aids and services leading to effective communication for qualified
persons with disabilities so they can participate equally in the town’s
programs, services, and activities, to make information and communications
accessible to people who have speech, hearing, or vision impairments.
   (B)   Anyone who requires an auxiliary aid or service for effective
communication, or a modification of policies or procedures to participate in a
program, service, or activity of the town should contact the Utilities
Superintendent at the Town Hall, (765) 945-8381, as soon as possible, but no
later than 48 hours before the scheduled event.
   (C)   The town will not place a surcharge on a particular individual with a
disability or any group of individuals with disabilities to cover the cost of
providing auxiliary aids/services or reasonable modifications of the policy,
such as retrieving items from locations that are open to the public but are not
accessible to persons who use wheelchairs.
(Res. 2014-1, passed 7-9-2014)
§ 34.38 MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The town will make all reasonable modifications to policies and
programs to ensure that people with disabilities have an equal opportunity to
enjoy all of its programs, services, and activities.
   (B)   For example, individuals with service animals are welcomed in town
offices, even where pets are generally prohibited.
(Res. 2014-1, passed 7-9-2014)
§ 34.39 LIMITATIONS.
   The ADA does not require the town to take any action that would
fundamentally alter the nature of its programs or services, or impose an undue
financial or administrative burden.
(Res. 2014-1, passed 7-9-2014)
§ 34.40 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE; COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   The grievance procedure is established to meet the requirements of the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.
It may be used by anyone who wishes to file a complaint alleging discrimination
on the basis of disability in the provision of services, activities, programs,
or benefits by the town. The town’s personnel policy governs employment-related
complaints of disability discrimination.
   (B)   Complaints that a program, service, or activity of the town is not
accessible to persons with disabilities should be directed to the Town Hall,
(765) 945-8381.
   (C)   The complaint should be in writing and contain information about the
alleged discrimination such as name, address, phone number of complainant, and
location, date, and description of the problem. Alternative means of filing
complaints, such as personal interviews or a tape recording of the complaint,
will be made available for persons with disabilities upon request.
   (D)   The complaint should be submitted by the grievant and/or his or her
designee as soon as possible, but no later than 180 calendar days after the
alleged violation, to: Utilities Superintendent, Town ADA Coordinator, P.O. Box
486, Windfall, IN, 46076.
   (E)   Within 15 calendar days after receipt of the complaint, the ADA
Coordinator or his or her designee will meet with the complainant to discuss
the complaint and the possible resolutions. Within 15 calendar days of the
meeting, the ADA Coordinator or his or her designee will respond in writing,
and where appropriate, in a format accessible to the complainant, such as large
print, Braille, or audio tape. The response will explain the position of the
town and offer options for substantive resolution of the complaint.
(Res. 2014-1, passed 7-9-2014)
§ 34.41 APPEALS.
   (A)   If the response by the ADA Coordinator or his or her designee does not
satisfactorily resolve the issue, the complainant and/or his or her designee
may appeal the decision within 15 calendar days after receipt of the response
to the Town Council.
   (B)   Within 15 calendar days after receipt of the appeal, the Town Council
will meet with the complainant to discuss the complaint and possible
resolutions. Within 15 calendar days after the meeting, the Town Council will
respond in writing, and, where appropriate, in a format accessible to the
complainant, with a final resolution of the complaint.
   (C)   All written complaints received by the ADA Coordinator or his or her
designee, appeals to the Town Council, and responses from these two offices
will be retained by the town for at least three years.
(Res. 2014-1, passed 7-9-2014)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   SEWER
      
52.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
Garbage Collection
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Placement for collection
   
50.03   Pick-up; limits
   
50.04   Fees
   
50.05   Violations
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GARBAGE COLLECTION
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes, except sewage and body wastes, generated by
the residence from which it is picked up.
   RECYCLABLES. Milk jugs, liter soft drink bottles, laundry detergent bottles,
aluminum, tin cans, newspapers, glass bottles, and jars.
   TRASH. Ashes, cans, metal waste, glass, crockery, paper, or litter of any
kind, except debris from demolition or construction of buildings generated by
the residence or business from which it is picked up.
   YARD WASTE. Dirt, sweepings, wood, leaves, grass, or weeds generated by the
residence or business from which it is picked up.
(Ord. 93-04, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 50.02 PLACEMENT FOR COLLECTION.
   All trash, garbage, and yard waste shall be placed in bags no larger than 30
gallons. These bags shall be placed adjacent to the alley or street for
collection by the contracted collector. They may be placed in a metal or
plastic barrel or other suitable container; however, this is not a necessity.
All recyclables shall be placed in the recycling bin provided by the town and/
or the waste management company.
(Ord. 93-04, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 50.03 PICK-UP; LIMITS.
   (A)   There shall be a limit of 15 bags per each residential dwelling per
pick-up.
   (B)   Disposal of furniture, appliances, and any other material not
contained within the above specified definitions in §
50.01 will not be picked up. Pick-up of such large items will be made twice per
year at times and places to be scheduled and posted.
(Ord. 93-04, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 50.04 FEES.
   (A)   Below are the established rates for trash removal services rendered by
the town.
      (1)   Residential. Each residential address receiving trash removal
services from the town shall be charged a fee of $15 per month commencing with
the first billing cycle for services in March 2023 and billed in the April 2023
billing period.
      (2)   Commercial. Each commercial address receiving trash removal
services from the town shall be charged a fee of $15 per month commencing with
the first billing cycle for services in March 2023 and billed in the April 2023
billing period.
   (B)   The aforementioned fee shall be included in the monthly utility bill
issued by the municipal works office and shall be collected by the Clerk/
Treasurer along with the wastewater billings and if the monthly trash removal
fee is not paid by the due date stated on the bill, a late charge of 10% will
be assessed together with any and all costs of collection. Delinquent charges
for trash services, as well as applied penalties, recording fees, and service
charges, shall constitute a lien upon the property and may be collected in
accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-9-25-11.
   (C)   Residents shall each receive two totes as a part of the trash removal
services. Each tote may be placed out by the street for pick-up for not more
than 24 hours. Residents shall store totes off the street and near their home,
garage, or business at all other times.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 2-28-2023)
§ 50.05 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person failing to pay any assessment or fine levied hereunder shall be
subject to civil penalties including, but not limited to, interest, court
costs, and attorney fees.
(Ord. 93-04, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The town shall collect the fees assessed in §§
50.01 through
50.03, and
50.05 by assessing such fees on the utility bill of each residence.
   (B)   Any person refusing to pay for such service, or found to be in
violation of §§
50.01 through
50.03, and
50.05 shall be fined as follows:
      (1)   First offense: $20;
      (2)   Second offense: $50; and
      (3)   Third and subsequent offenses: $100.
   (C)   Failure to comply with the provisions of §
50.04 regarding removal of trash totes from the roadway/curb shall result in a
written warning from the Town Marshal for the first offense and a fine of $25
for each offense thereafter during each calendar year. Each week a violation
continues shall constitute a new and separate offense of §
50.04.
(Ord. 93-04, passed 9-7-1993; Ord. 2023-08, passed 2-28-2023)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Outdoor toilets
   
51.02   Septic tanks
   
51.03   Private sewers and ditches
Rates and Fees
   
51.15   Fees
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Municipal sewage regulations, see I.C. 36-9-23-30
   Nuisance defined; abatement procedure, see I.C. 32-30-6-6
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 OUTDOOR TOILETS.
   (A)   No person shall establish, place, or maintain any privy or outside
toilet not operated by running water and emptying into a septic system
complying with all requirements established by the State Board of Health. Any
such privy or toilet in the town constitutes a public nuisance and may be
abated according to the procedures established by state law.
   (B)   No privy or outdoor toilet described in division (A) above shall
constitute a public nuisance until town water service is available to the
properties on which the privy or toilet is situated.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-23-30) (Ord. passed 5-17-1954) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 SEPTIC TANKS.
   (A)   No person shall install, cover, or place in service any septic tank in
the town until after the Town Marshal or a member of the Town Council has
inspected the tank.
   (B)   No person shall install or use any septic tank unless the tank has an
inspection lid at the outlet and has a tile at least two feet in length placed
at a 90-degree angle pointing toward the bottom of the tank at the outlet or
unless the tank has baffles to within four inches of its bottom.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-23-30) (Res. 214, passed 9-1-1965) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 PRIVATE SEWERS AND DITCHES.
   No person shall connect any private sewer or ditch to the town sewer system
until the private sewer or ditch has been inspected by the Town Marshal or a
member of the Town Council. No person shall cover any connection or use any
private sewer or ditch connected to the town sewer system unless the connection
conforms to the specifications established by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-23-30) (Res. 214, passed 9-1-1965) Penalty, see §
51.99
RATES AND FEES
§ 51.15 FEES.
   (A)   The following rates and charges shall apply for use of the town sewage
works.
Charge or Rate Type Fee
Charge or Rate Type                     Fee
Monthly water usage
All gallons (per 1,000 gallons)         $6.98
Base Charge per Month
5/8 inch water meter                    $37.75
3-4 inch water meter                    $44.74
1 inch water meter                      $64.61
1 1/4 inch water meter                  $91.28
1 1/2 inch water meter                  $121.63
2 inch water meter                      $198.52
3 inch water meter                      $428.40
4 inch water meter                      $711.98
6 inch water meter                      $1,604.97
Un-metered Rates
Monthly charge for all un-metered users $58.69
Tap Fee for Water
Per non-residential connection          Actual cost of making the connection,
                                        but not less than $1,000
Per residential connection              $1,000
Other Charges
Customer deposit (per customer)         $200
Inspection (per inspection)             $200
Late charge penalty (for all bills 30   10% of bill
days or more delinquent)
Monthly storm drain charge (per active  $2.50
service account)
Relator inspection (per inspection)     $200
Returned check charge                   $25
Service calls (per call)                $200
Unpaid bills by renters                 Owners shall be responsible for any
                                        unpaid bills by renters
 
   (B)   Where the fees, listed in this section, contradict the fees listed in
§
52.31, the fees in §
52.31 will prevail.
(Res. 2019-3, passed 8-13-2019; Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-8-2020)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty
of an ordinance violation and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than
$10 nor more than $100, in addition to court costs. Each day a violation of
this section continues constitutes a separate ordinance violation.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-23-30) (Ord. passed 5-17-1954; Res. 214, passed 9-1-1965)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Application for service
   
52.03   Notice to customers
   
52.04   Resale or diversion of water
   
52.05   Access to premises
   
52.06   Water waste
   
52.07   Fraudulent use of water
   
52.08   Liability for leakage and damage
   
52.09   Interruptions in service
   
52.10   Installation of services
   
52.11   Special services
   
52.12   Fire Department use reporting
Rates and Fees
   
52.25   Security deposit
   
52.26   Opening and closing bills
   
52.27   Meter reading and bills
   
52.28   Charges for work performed on customer’s premises
   
52.29   Meters
   
52.30   Discontinuation of services
   
52.31   Fees
   
52.32   Billing adjustments
Cross-Connections
   
52.45   Cross-connection defined
   
52.46   Establishment of permit
   
52.47   Inspections
   
52.48   Right to entry
   
52.49   Discontinue water service
   
52.50   Toxic, hazardous materials
   
52.51   Backflow preventers
   
52.52   State Plumbing Code
Statutory reference:
   General Powers Concerning Transportation and Public Works, see I.C. 36-9-2-1
   Public Service Commission, see I.C. 8-1-2-1 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The State Public Service Commission.
   COSTS or ACTUAL COSTS. The total cost of all materials, labor, supervision,
equipment, tools, and appliances used by the utility to perform a function
permitted or required by this section.
   CUSTOMER. Any person applying for or using water service supplied by the
utility.
   POINT OF DELIVERY. If a customer receives metered service, the POINT OF
DELIVERY for the service will be at the utility’s meter on the premises of the
customer. If a customer receives un-metered service, the POINT OF DELIVERY for
service will be at the junction of the service pipe with the utility’s main.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-2-1) (Res. 1-20-64, passed 1-20-1964)
§ 52.02 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   Each applicant for water service shall sign a form provided by the utility
and shall agree to be bound by all rates and regulations in effect at that
time, and by any rules and regulations adopted subsequently by the utility and
approved by the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-2-1) (Res. 1-20-64, passed 1-20-1964)
§ 52.03 NOTICE TO CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   The utility shall deliver any notices required by this section to the
customer.
   (B)   The notice shall be written and delivered, either in person or by U.S.
Mail, to the last known address of the customer.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-2-1) (Res. 1-20-64, passed 1-20-1964)
§ 52.04 RESALE OR DIVERSION OF WATER.
   (A)   No customer shall resell any water supplied by the utility to that
customer. No customer shall deliver any water supplied to that customer to any
premises other than those specified in that customer’s application for service.
   (B)   The utility may waive the requirements of this section by executing a
special agreement between the utility and the customer.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-2-1) (Res. 1-20-64, passed 1-20-1964) Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.05 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   (A)   The utility or its duly authorized agents may enter the premises of
any customer at any time for any purpose connected to the service of water to
the customer.
   (B)   The customer may require any agent of the utility to produce
identification before entering the premises.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-2-1) (Res. 1-20-64, passed 1-20-1964)
§ 52.06 WATER WASTE.
   (A)   If the utility determines that a customer is using water negligently
or wastefully, or if it determines that a customer is using water in a manner
which adversely affects the town water system, the utility shall give written
notice to the customer requesting that the customer discontinue any negligent,
wasteful, or harmful use.
   (B)   If the customer does not discontinue the use within 24 hours after
receipt of the notice, the utility may discontinue service to that customer.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-2-1) (Res. 1-20-64, passed 1-20-1964)
§ 52.07 FRAUDULENT USE OF WATER.
   (A)   The utility may discontinue service without notice if it determines
that the customer has engaged in the fraudulent use of water or if the
equipment or meters of the utility have been tampered with.
   (B)   (1)   The utility may require that the customer make proper
restitution before service is restored, even if the customer was unaware of any
fraudulent use or tampering.
      (2)   Proper restitution includes payment for any un-metered water use or
for the repair of damage to any property of the utility, installation of the
proper type of meter assembly or piping, and the payment of a reconnection
charge to the utility.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-2-1) (Res. 1-20-64, passed 1-20-1964)
§ 52.08 LIABILITY FOR LEAKAGE AND DAMAGE.
   The utility shall not be liable for any loss, damage, or injury whatsoever
caused by the escape or loss of water after the water has passed beyond the
point of delivery. The utility shall not be liable for any defects in the
appliances, equipment, or piping of any customer.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-2-1) (Res. 1-20-64, passed 1-20-1964)
§ 52.09 INTERRUPTIONS IN SERVICE.
   (A)   The utility shall not be liable for any damage resulting from any
interruption of service.
   (B)   The utility shall not be liable to any customer or any other person
due to an insufficiency of, interruption in, or shortage of water or water
pressure.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-2-1) (Res. 1-20-64, passed 1-20-1964)
§ 52.10 INSTALLATION OF SERVICES.
   (A)   If the utility provides metered services, the customer shall pay for
all labor and materials required for the installation of service pipe from the
main to the customer’s water meter location.
   (B)   If the utility provides un-metered services, the customer shall pay
for all labor and materials required for the installation of service pipe from
the main to the entry of the premises to which the service is rendered.
   (C)   (1)   The utility shall direct and approve the installation of all
water service facilities.
      (2)   No person shall install a service connection from the utility’s
main to the premises of the customer without the authorization of the utility.
   (D)   (1)   The utility shall determine the size of the service pipe to be
supplied to the customer.
      (2)   The service pipe shall be of a size suitable for conducting the
amount of water which the utility estimates that the customer will require, and
shall be of a size adequate to prevent excessive friction loss.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-2-1) (Res. 1-20-64, passed 1-20-1964)
§ 52.11 SPECIAL SERVICES.
   (A)   If the utility provides service to customers in separate premises,
separate houses, or buildings, or to separate living or business quarters on
the same premises under a single control or management, the customers shall be
supplied through individual connections and shall receive separate bills.
   (B)   (1)   If the service pipe running from the main to the premises is of
adequate size to supply the demand, the utility may temporarily waive the
requirement for separate service connections.
      (2)   However, the utility shall continue to require the payment of a
minimum bill and the tendering of security deposits in the same manner as if
separate service connections had been installed.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-2-1) (Res. 1-20-64, passed 1-20-1964)
§ 52.12 FIRE DEPARTMENT USE REPORTING.
   (A)   The Town Volunteer Fire Company shall report to the town municipal
utility office its use of water for firefighting purposes, in the form of
gallons used, so that water usage in the town can more accurately be tracked.
   (B)   The Town Volunteer Fire Company shall report to the town municipal
utility office the volume of water used, in writing, not less than one time per
month.
(Ord. 2021-15, passed 10-8-2021)
RATES AND FEES
§ 52.25 SECURITY DEPOSIT.
   (A)   (1)   Each customer shall furnish the utility with a cash deposit as
security for the payment of water service bills. The deposit shall not be less
than $20.
      (2)   If the character or volume of a customer’s changes at any time so
that the deposit is inadequate as security for the payment of water service
bills, the utility may require the customer to submit an additional deposit in
an amount satisfactory to the utility.
      (3)   If the utility discontinues service to a customer because of
nonpayment of bills, the deposit shall be applied to the unpaid balance. The
customer shall furnish the utility with a cash deposit at least equal to the
former deposit before the utility restores service.
      (4)   The utility shall not restore service to any customer whose service
has been disconnected for nonpayment of bills until that customer pays in full
all sums then due and owing, and pays a reconnection charge.
      (5)   The utility may refuse to serve any applicant for water service who
is indebted to the utility for services rendered at any location in the town
during the three years before the application was made until the customer
satisfies the indebtedness to the satisfaction of the utility.
   (B)   The utility shall refund any security deposit to any customer who has
terminated the use of all services provided by the utility and has paid all
bills due for such services in full.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-2-1) (Res. 1-20-64, passed 1-20-1964)
§ 52.26 OPENING AND CLOSING BILLS.
   (A)   Any bill rendered following the opening or closing of service to a
customer or any special bill for a period of less than the normal monthly
billing period shall be pro-rated.
   (B)   However, no bill shall be rendered for an amount equal to less than
one-half of the monthly minimum charge.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-2-1) (Res. 1-20-64, passed 1-20-1964)
§ 52.27 METER READING AND BILLS.
   (A)   The utility shall read meters at regular intervals for the preparation
of monthly bills, and at the intervals it deems necessary for opening, closing,
or special bills.
   (B)   The utility shall submit bills to every customer once each month for
services rendered, and shall collect these bills once each month unless
provided otherwise in §
52.31.
   (C)   (1)   The utility shall charge for un-metered services at a rate
agreed upon between the utility and the customer.
      (2)   However, no charge for un-metered service shall be less than the
charge for metered service.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-2-1) (Res. 1-20-64, passed 1-20-1964)
§ 52.28 CHARGES FOR WORK PERFORMED ON CUSTOMER’S PREMISES.
   (A)   (1)   The utility shall charge for all materials furnished and for all
work performed on any customer’s premises.
      (2)   The utility shall charge for all trouble calls if trouble calls
were not made necessary by the default or negligence of the utility.
   (B)   The utility shall not charge for the costs of any repairs or
replacements of equipment furnished and owned by the utility which are located
on the premises of the customer unless the repairs or replacements were made
necessary by the misuse of equipment or negligent use of equipment by the
customer.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-2-1) (Res. 1-20-64, passed 1-20-1964)
§ 52.29 METERS.
   (A)   If a customer receives metered service, the utility shall furnish and
install a meter of a size it deems adequate.
   (B)   The utility shall not be required to pay rent or any other charge for
a meter or any other facility located on the premises of a customer.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-2-1) (Res. 1-20-64, passed 1-20-1964)
§ 52.30 DISCONTINUATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Delinquency of water bill.
      (1)   Payments are due no later than 3:00 p.m. on the fifth day of each
month.
      (2)   If the fifth day of the month is on a weekend or holiday, payment
is due no later than 8:30 a.m. the next business day.
      (3)   Payments received after 3:00 p.m. on the fifth will be made
delinquent, and a 10% late fee will be assessed to the account.
      (4)   To avoid disconnection, payment in full must be received no later
than 8:30 a.m. on the fifteenth day of the month. If the fifteenth day of the
month is on a weekend or holiday, payment is due no later than 8:30 a.m. the
next business day.
      (5)   If payment is not received by 8:30 a.m. on the fifteenth day of the
month, water service will be shut off and sanitation totes removed until the
balance, including the 10% penalty and $75 reconnect fee, is paid in full.
      (6)   Request for reconnection, Monday through Thursday, from 9:00 a.m.-
3:00 p.m. Once the full balance is paid, the Utility Office has 24 business
hours to reconnect.
   (B)   Financial difficulty.
      (1)   The utility may decide not to disconnect service (even when it has
the legal right to do so) if the customer contacts the utility prior to shut
off date to discuss the reason for falling behind in payment(s).
      (2)   But the customer must:
         (a)   Pay a reasonable portion of the bill, the lesser of $10 or 10%
of the utility bill;
         (b)   Agree to pay the remainder within three months;
         (c)   Agree to pay all undisputed future charges when due; and
         (d)   Not have violated any similar payment agreement with the utility
in the last 12 months.
   (C)   Unpaid balances. If any account balance remains unpaid for more than
30 days after termination of service, the water meter deposit shall be applied
towards any past due balance and any trash totes for municipal trash removal
shall be collected by the town.
(Prior Code, § 36-9-2-1) (Res. 1-20-64, passed 1-20-1964; Order, passed 4-20-
1976; Ord. 01-03, passed 1-8-2002; Res. 2013-1, passed 7-9-2013; Ord. 2023-03,
passed 2-14-2023; Ord. 2024-08, passed 12-10-2024)
§ 52.31 FEES.
   The following rates and charges will apply for use of the town water
utility.
Charge or Rate Type Fee
Charge or Rate Type                    Fee
Monthly Water Volume Rate (per 1,000 gallons)
First 3,000 gallons                    $21.95
Next 3,000 gallons                     $20.83
Next 4,000 gallons                     $15.70
Next 4,000 gallons                     $10.38
Over 14,000 gallons                    $6.19
Minimum Charge per Month
5/8 inch water meter                   $65.86
3/4 inch water meter                   $95.53
1 inch water meter                     $170.38
1 1/2 inch water meter                 $380.77
2 inch water meter                     $678.12
3 inch water meter                     $1,530.19
4 inch water meter                     $2,712.59
Tap Fee for Water
Per non-residential connection         Actual cost of making the connection,
                                       but not less than $450
Per residential connection             $750
Other Charges
Customer deposit                       $200
Inspection (per inspection)            $50
Late charge penalty (for bills 30 days 10% of bill
or more delinquent)
Returned check charge                  $25
Service calls (After regular business  $50
hours)
 
(Ord. 20-06, passed - -2020; Ord. 2020-11, passed 10-27-2020; Ord. 2021-15,
passed 10-8-2021; Ord. 2022-0, passed 6-14-2022)
§ 52.32 BILLING ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Any customer experiencing an unusual spike in his or her monthly
utility due to a leak or failure may appear before the Council at a regularly
scheduled meeting and present a request for a utility billing adjustment.
   (B)   The town may, in its discretion, determine that a fault or failure has
occurred which resulted in an unusually high utility billing for the month for
the customer seeking an adjustment.
   (C)   (1)   If the town determines that such a fault or failure has
occurred, the town may issue a billing adjustment one time per year per utility
to relieve the customer of some portion of the excessive billing.
      (2)   Adjustments may not be issued merely for high use by a customer in
a given month, and any adjustment should be supported by a determination as to
the cause of the unusual use.
   (D)   If determined to be appropriate, the town may issue a credit towards
an excessive billing based on a three-month average use figure for that
customer.
(Policy Regarding Utility Billing Adjustments, passed 4-13-2021)
CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 52.45 CROSS-CONNECTION DEFINED.
   A CROSS-CONNECTION shall be defined as any physical connection or
arrangement between two otherwise separate systems, one of which contains
potable water from the town water system, and the other, water from a private
source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases, or chemicals,
whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other, the direction of flow
depending on the pressure differential between the two systems.
(Ord. 2023-14, passed 8-22-2023)
§ 52.46 ESTABLISHMENT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross-connection.
   (B)   No interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a
private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the town may enter the supply or distribution system of said
municipality, unless such private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
Town Municipal Water and by the State Department of Environmental Management in
accordance with 327 I.A.C. 8-10.
(Ord. 2023-14, passed 8-22-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.47 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the town to cause inspections to be made of all
properties served by the public water system where cross-connections with the
public water system is deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and
reinspections based on potential health hazards involved shall be established
by the town.
(Ord. 2023-14, passed 8-22-2023)
§ 52.48 RIGHT TO ENTRY.
   (A)   Upon presentation of credentials, representatives of the town shall
have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to examine the property
served by a connection to the public water system of the town for cross-
connections.
   (B)   On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any property so served
shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information regarding the
piping system or systems on such property.
   (C)   The refusal of access or refusal of requested pertinent information
shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross-connection.
(Ord. 2023-14, passed 8-22-2023)
§ 52.49 DISCONTINUE WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Municipal Water is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this subchapter exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
      (2)   Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is
served to the owner, lessee, or occupant of the property or premises where a
violation is found or suspected to exist. The water service to such property
shall not be restored until the cross-connection(s) has been eliminated in
completion with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   If it is deemed by the Town Municipal Water that a cross-connection or
an emergency endangers public health, safety, or welfare and requires immediate
action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the Clerk/Treasurer
of the town and delivered to the consumer’s premises, service may be
immediately discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing
within ten days of such emergency discontinuance.
(Ord. 2023-14, passed 8-22-2023)
§ 52.50 TOXIC, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   (A)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous
users shall install and maintain a reduced pressure principal backflow
preventer in the main water line serving each building on the premises.
   (B)   The backflow preventer must be installed in an easily accessible
location not subject to flooding or freezing.
(Ord. 2023-14, passed 8-22-2023)
§ 52.51 BACKFLOW PREVENTERS.
   (A)   The reduced pressure principal backflow preventers shall not be
installed below ground level.
   (B)   In addition to IDEM Rule 327 I.A.C. 8-10-49(c), certain facilities may
require a backflow prevention device. The need for a device shall be determined
by the Superintendent of Water. Once determined, the facility will have no less
than 90 days to install a backflow prevention device before being determined
non-compliant.
   (C)   If, in the judgment of the Superintendent of Water, an approved
backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
system; the Superintendent of Water will give notice to the water consumer to
install such an approved device at a location and in manner approved by the
Superintendent of Water and shall have inspections and tests made of such
approved devices as required by the Superintendent of Water and in accordance
with the IDEM Rule 327 I.A.C. 8-10.
(Ord. 2023-14, passed 8-22-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.52 STATE PLUMBING CODE.
   This subchapter does not supersede the State Plumbing Cod (the IDEM Rule 327
I.A.C. 8-10) but is supplementary to it.
(Ord. 2023-14, passed 8-22-2023)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
73.   GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Traffic accident report fees
§ 70.01 TRAFFIC ACCIDENT REPORT FEES.
   The Council fixes a fee of $3 for furnishing copies of accident reports.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Accident reports availab(ility), see I.C. 9-26
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   One-way streets
      
II.   Stop intersections
      
III.   Yield intersections
      
IV.   Speed limits
      
V.   Weight limits
      
VI.   Commercial vehicles prohibited
Statutory reference:
   (Traffic) powers of local authorities, see I.C. 9-21-1 et seq.
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The following streets are one-way streets.
   (B)   Every person operating a vehicle on these streets shall move the
vehicle in one direction, as indicated by the signs posted at or upon the
entrances to these streets or portions of streets.
 
Street           Location             Direction of Traffic Penalty
                 From Independence                         $75 plus court
McClellan Street Street (S.R. 213) to Southbound           costs*
                 College Avenue
Note to Table:
*No court costs if paid within 20 days.
 
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1-28) (Ord. passed 5-5-1954; Ord. passed 10-19-1970; Ord. 6-
21-1971, passed 6-21-1971; Ord. 2013-02, passed 8-13-2013; Ord. 2013-04, passed
5-13-2013; Ord. 2013-, passed 12-10-2013)
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The Council hereby designates the following intersections as stop
intersections.
   (B)   Every person operating a vehicle shall stop at one or more of the
entrances to a stop intersection, as indicated by the signs posted upon or at
these intersections.
Location Type of Stop Penalty
Location                            Type of Stop Penalty
Canal Street and Oak Street         Four-way     $75 plus court costs*
Canal Street and Posey Street       Four-way     $75 plus court costs*
College Street for McClellan Street Two-way      $75 plus court costs*
Doggett Street and North Street     Four-way     $75 plus court costs*
LaSalle Street and Posey Street     Four-way     $75 plus court costs*
Main Street and Park Street         Four-way     $75 plus court costs*
Main Street for McClellan Street    Two-way      $75 plus court costs*
Main Street and Mill Street         Four-way     $75 plus court costs*
McClellan Street for Doggett Street One-way      $75 plus court costs*
Mill Street for Doggett Street      One-way      $75 plus court costs*
North Street and Park Street        Four-way     $75 plus court costs*
Oak Street for Sherman Street       One-way      $75 plus court costs*
Pearl Street for North Street       Two-way      $75 plus court costs*
Posey Street and Wall Street        Four-way     $75 plus court costs*
Posey Street for Sherman Street     Two-way      $75 plus court costs*
Zehner Street for Enterprise Street Two-way      $75 plus court costs*
Note to Table:
*No court costs if paid within 20 days.
 
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1-28) (Ord. 2-16-70, passed 2-16-1970; Ord. 6-21-71, passed
6-21-1971; Ord. 2013-02, passed 8-13-2013; Ord. 2013-, passed 12-10-2013; Ord.
2014-4, passed 7-9-2014)
SCHEDULE III. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The Council hereby designates the following intersections as yield
intersections.
   (B)   Every person operating a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to
traffic approaching on the following preferential streets as indicated by the
signs posted at or upon these intersections.
 
Yield                                        Penalty
Bowen Street yields to Washington Street     $75 plus court costs*
East Park Street yields to North Park Street $75 plus court costs*
Note to Table:
*No court costs if paid within 20 days.
 
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1-28) (Ord. 2-16-70, passed 2-16-1970; Ord. 6-21-71, passed
6-21-1971; Ord. 2013-02, passed 8-13-2013; Ord. 2013-, passed 12-10-2013)
SCHEDULE IV. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The Council, having determined on the basis of engineering and traffic
investigations that the maximum speed permitted by the state statute is greater
than reasonable and safe under the conditions found to exist on certain streets
and parts of streets, declares the following reasonable and safe maximum speed
limits on the highways listed in this schedule.
   (B)   For the purpose of this schedule, BUSINESS DISTRICT is defined as set
forth in I.C. 9-13-2-18.
   (C)   No person shall operate a vehicle in excess of 20 miles per hour in
any portion of the town which is not a business district or school zone.
   (D)   No person shall operate a vehicle in excess of 20 miles per hour in
any business district or school zone, which includes the following.
 
Street              Location                         Designation       Penalty
Independence Street Between Canal Street and the     Business District $75*
                    Conrail Railroad tracks
                    Between its intersection with
McClellan Street    Independence Street and Sherman  Business District $75*
                    Street and its intersection with
                    the Conrail Railroad tracks
Oak Street          Between Canal Street and LaSalle School Zone       $75*
                    Street
Sherman Street      Between Posey Street and Zehner  Business District $75*
                    Street
Note to Table:
*If not paid within 20 days, court costs will also apply. This penalty also
applies to highways not within school zones and business districts.
 
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1-58) (Ord. 6-21-71, passed 6-21-1971; Ord. 2008-03, passed
7-1-2008; Ord. 2013-03, passed 8-13-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of speed limits, see I.C. 9-21-5-3
   Local authorities, alteration of speed limits, see I.C. 9-21-5-6
   Minimum speed regulation, see I.C. 9-21-5-8
   Regulation of speed limits in public parks, see I.C. 9-21-1
SCHEDULE V. WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   All trucks and motor vehicles with a gross weight of eight tons or
more are prohibited from traveling or parking at any time upon the following
listed streets in the town.
 
Street           Penalty
Cemetery Street  $25*
College Street   $25*
McClellan Street $25*
Note to Table:
*For first offense. For second offense, $50. For third or each subsequent
offense, $150 to $500.
 
   (B)   This schedule shall not apply to emergency vehicles, public utility or
municipal trucks, and motor vehicles engaged in carrying out their ordinary and
necessary functions, nor to trucks and motor vehicles directly en route to
residential premises located within the town for door-to-door delivery or pick-
up.
   (C)   The above designated streets shall be appropriately marked and
identified with informational signs to clearly advise and alert drivers that
weight limitations and use restrictions are in effect.
   (D)   The Town Marshal, his or her duly appointed deputies, or any other
traffic law enforcement officers are hereby empowered to stop and check any
vehicle which the officer reasonably believes to be in violation of this
schedule, and to require the operator to have the vehicle weighed at or with
the nearest reasonably available scales.
(Ord. 95-081, passed 8-1-1995)
SCHEDULE VI. COMMERCIAL VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Prohibition. It has come to the attention of the Town Council that
commercial vehicles using Sycamore, King and Poplar streets in the town have
been driving onto private yards while using those streets. Commercial vehicles
making local deliveries are hereby prohibited from using Sycamore, King and
Poplar streets.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this schedule, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. A truck, tractor, semitrailer, or any combination
thereof.
      LOCAL DELIVERY. The operation of a commercial vehicle from or to a point
of origin or destination, or when being used for the purpose of local pickups
or deliveries of freight, property and other material in the town.
   (C)   Penalty. Whoever violates this schedule shall be subject to a fine of
not more than $250. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
that a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 5-14-2024)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking zones
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the law or the
directions of a police officer or any traffic control device, in any of the
following.
Street Location Time Penalty
Street              Location            Time               Penalty
Lions’s Parkway   Anywhere            From 10:00 p.m. to Fine of $1-$10, plus
                                        5:00 a.m.          court costs
                    Intersection with
                    Independence Street
McClellan Street    (S.R. 213), where   Anytime            Fine of $1-$10, plus
                    Independence Street                    court costs
                    adjoins the post
                    office building
                    Northeast side,
                    where the side      From 8:00 a.m. to  Fine of $1-$10, plus
McClellan Street*   street adjoins the  5:00 p.m. on any   court costs
                    post office         day except Sunday
                    building
                    East side or East
                    sidewalk, from its
Posey Street        intersection with   Anytime            Fine of $1-$10, plus
                    Sherman Street to                      court costs
                    50-feet North of
                    that intersection
                    North side, from
Sherman Street      its intersection    Anytime            Fine of $1-$10, plus
                    with S.R. 213 to                       court costs
                    the city limits
                    North side, from
                    its intersection
                    with S.R. 213 to                       Fine of $1-$10, plus
Sherman Street      its intersection    Anytime            court costs
                    with the first
                    alley West of S.R.
                    213
                    From its
                    intersection with
                    the town limits on
S.R. 213**          the South to its    Anytime            Fine of $1-$10, plus
                    intersection with                      court costs
                    the right-of-way of
                    the Conrail
                    Railroad
                    South side, from
                    its intersection
                    with McClellan                         Fine of $1-$10, plus
West Sherman Street Street to its       Anytime            court costs
                    intersection with
                    the Conrail
                    Railroad crossing
Notes to Table:
* Three-minute parking limit.
** Parking prohibited on or within ten feet of S.R. 213 in the designated
location.
 
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1-114) (Ord. passed 5-5-1954; Ord. 202, passed 12-8-1956;
Ord. 2-16-70, passed 2-16-1970; Ord. 6-21-71, passed 6-21-1970; Ord. 82482,
passed 8-24-1982; Ord. 73-3, passed 10-15-1973; Ord. 02-01, passed 1-2-2001)
CHAPTER 73: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
73.01   Operation of golf carts within town limits
   
73.02   Definitions
   
73.03   Driver’s license required
   
73.04   Financial responsibility
   
73.05   Operator requirements
   
73.06   Operator financial responsibility
   
73.07   Inspection and permitting
   
73.08   Number of occupants
   
73.09   Equipment required and time allowed for operation
   
73.10   Location of allowed operation
   
73.11   Slow-moving-vehicle sign or flashing lamp required
   
73.12   Required equipment
   
73.13   Traffic and parking rules
   
73.14   Reciprocity policy
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS WITHIN TOWN LIMITS.
   The operation of a golf cart within the town is strictly prohibited under
state law unless the town has established an ordinance. The town declares that
a golf cart may be operated within the town limits so long as it is registered,
equipped and operated in full compliance with all of the terms and conditions
set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 11-12-2024; Ord. 2025-01, passed 4-22-2025)
§ 73.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle with four wheels that was originally designed for
operation on a golf course and is powered by a battery or an internal-
combustion motor.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. A UTV (utility vehicle), including side-by-side, multi-
passenger off-road vehicles, but excluding four wheelers and three wheelers.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 11-12-2024; Ord. 2025-01, passed 4-22-2025)
§ 73.03 DRIVER’S LICENCE REQUIRED.
   A valid license issued by the state or by any other state of the union that
lawfully provides for the operation of a motor vehicle is required for the
operation of a golf cart in the town.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 11-12-2024; Ord. 2025-01, passed 4-22-2025) Penalty, see
§
73.99
§ 73.04 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart is required in an amount not
less than that required by applicable state law for motor vehicles operated on
public highways within the state.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 11-12-2024; Ord. 2025-01, passed 4-22-2025) Penalty, see
§
73.99
§ 73.05 OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS.
   Only persons over the age of 16 years of age who hold a valid driver’s
license may operate a golf cart upon the streets, roadways and intersections
located within the town.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 11-12-2024; Ord. 2025-01, passed 4-22-2025) Penalty, see
§
73.99
§ 73.06 OPERATOR FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The operator of the golf cart must be able to show financial responsibility
when operating the golf cart. Written proof of financial responsibility must
always be available by placing the same on the golf cart or by the operator of
the golf cart carrying the same.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 11-12-2024; Ord. 2025-01, passed 4-22-2025) Penalty, see
§
73.99
§ 73.07 INSPECTION AND PERMITTING.
   (A)   The owner or lessee of a golf cart must obtain an annual inspection of
the golf cart by the Town Marshall, or his or her designee, prior to operating
the vehicle within the town. The purpose of the inspection shall be to
determine whether the golf cart is safe and in compliance with the terms and
provisions of this chapter and with any other applicable laws of the state. The
inspection shall include a review of the financial responsibility associated
with the golf cart. The Police Department shall keep a record of the
inspection.
   (B)   The owner or lessee of a golf cart must obtain an annual registration
tag at a cost of $25. Registration tags shall be placed upon the rear-most
point of the vehicle and should be displayed in a location that is clearly
visible.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 11-12-2024; Ord. 2025-01, passed 4-22-2025) Penalty, see
§
73.99
§ 73.08 NUMBER OF OCCUPANTS.
   The number of occupants in a golf cart shall not exceed the number of
persons for whom factory seating is installed. The operator of a golf cart and
all occupants shall remain seated in the factory seating at all times while the
golf cart is in motion. No part of a person’s body may stick outside of the
cart.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 11-12-2024; Ord. 2025-01, passed 4-22-2025) Penalty, see
§
73.99
§ 73.09 EQUIPMENT REQUIRED AND TIME ALLOWED FOR OPERATION.
   Unless a golf cart is equipped with two operating headlights, one on each
side of the front of the golf cart, and two operating tail lights with brake
lights, one on each side of the rear of the golf cart, visible from a distance
of 500 feet, a golf cart may not be operated on the streets, roadways or
intersections located within the town during the darkness from dusk to dawn or
during inclement weather when headlights are necessary for other motor
vehicles. If a golf cart is so equipped, its hours of operation are from
sunrise to 10:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 11-12-2024; Ord. 2025-01, passed 4-22-2025) Penalty, see
§
73.99
§ 73.10 LOCATION OF ALLOWED OPERATION.
   A golf cart may be operated on the streets, roadways and intersections of
the town. A golf cart may not, under any circumstances, be operated on
sidewalks, on grass rights-of-way, in the town's parks, along state highways
within the town, namely SR 213/Independence, or on private property unless the
owner of the private property consents. A golf cart may be operated through
marked intersections to cross state highways only at 90 degrees. Golf carts
must not be operated inside the town’s parks at any time except during town-
approved festivals.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 11-12-2024; Ord. 2025-01, passed 4-22-2025) Penalty, see
§
73.99
§ 73.11 SLOW-MOVING-VEHICLE SIGN OR FLASHING LAMP REQUIRED.
   A golf cart on the streets, roadways and intersections within the town shall
always display either a slow-moving-vehicle (SMV) sign on the rear of the
vehicle in accordance with I.C. 9-21-9-3, or an amber flashing lamp in
accordance with I.C.9-21-9-4.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 11-12-2024; Ord. 2025-01, passed 4-22-2025) Penalty, see
§
73.99
§ 73.12 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   All golf carts operated on the streets, roadways and intersections of the
town must be equipped with the following standard equipment that is required on
an automobile: a horn, headlights, taillights and turn signals. No inspection
sticker/document will be issued without all of the above equipment.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 11-12-2024; Ord. 2025-01, passed 4-22-2025) Penalty, see
§
73.99
§ 73.13 TRAFFIC AND PARKING RULES.
   The operator of a golf cart shall comply with all traffic and parking rules
and regulations adopted by the town and the state that govern the operation of
motor vehicles. Operators must be at least 16 years old and hold a valid
operator’s license.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 11-12-2024; Ord. 2025-01, passed 4-22-2025) Penalty, see
§
73.99
§ 73.14 RECIPROCITY POLICY.
   This section applies to anyone bringing in a golf cart or off-road vehicle
for any town-recognized event held within the town limits. Anyone bringing a
golf cart or off-road vehicle into the town must have a valid, current and
visible permit belonging to another municipality within the state. The operator
of any golf cart or off-road vehicle shall always abide by all sections of this
chapter and is subject to its enforcement actions, fines and penalties. The
reciprocity shall be valid only during hours of the recognized event and shall
not exceed seven consecutive days. Reciprocity will expire at the conclusion of
the event and is only honored during the scheduled hours of the recognized
event. Any violator of this section must register his or her golf cart or off-
road vehicle with the town’s Police Department and have his or her vehicle
inspected if they wish to continue its use and operation outside of the above
limitations. There is no fee under this section so long as the above criteria
are met.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 11-12-2024; Ord. 2025-01, passed 4-22-2025) Penalty, see
§
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found to be in violation of chapter shall be fined as follows:
   (A)   First offence:   $50;
   (B)   Second offence:   $100;
   (C)   Third offence:   $250;
   (D)   Fourth offence:   $250 plus additional fines and costs to be
determined by the court.
(Ord. 2024-07, passed 11-12-2024; Ord. 2025-01, passed 4-22-2025)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES
Section
Public Nuisances
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Vehicle noise
   
90.03   Uninhabitable buildings
   
90.04   Other nuisances described
   
90.05   Inspections
   
90.06   Abatement
   
90.07   Abatement by town
   
90.08   Hearings
Abandoned Vehicles
   
90.20   Definitions
   
90.21   Notice
   
90.22   Public agency designation
   
90.23   Method of disposal
   
90.24   Fees for towing and storage
Littering
   
90.35   Definitions
   
90.36   Prohibition in public spaces
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Littering, see I.C. 35-45-3-2
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The President of the Town Council and his or her
agents or appointed representatives including, but not limited to, the Town
Police Department and its duly appointed officers.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The County Health Department.
   LITTER. Includes any human-made or human-used waste, which, if deposited
within the town otherwise than in a litter receptacle, tends to create a danger
to public health, safety, and welfare or tends to impair the environment or
aesthetic well-being of the community. LITTER shall include, but not be limited
to, garbage, trash, refuse, debris, grass clippings, or other lawn or garden
waste, paper products, glass, metal, plastic or paper containers, motor
vehicles parts, furniture, appliances, carcasses of dead animals, or other
waste material of an unsightly, unsanitary, nauseous, or offensive nature.
   NUISANCE. Defined as set out in I.C. 32-30-6-6, to-wit: whatever is
injurious to health; indecent; offensive to the senses; or an obstruction to
the free use of property, so as essentially to interfere with the comfortable
enjoyment of life or property.
   OBSTRUCTIONS. No person, corporation, or sole proprietorship shall obstruct
or endanger, or permit anything to obstruct or endanger the free passage or
proper use by the public of any street, sidewalk, alley, or public place,
except as may be permitted by this code; however, goods, wares, and merchandise
may be placed on sidewalks for such reasonable time as may be necessary for
loading and unloading them if they are removed within 24 hours.
   OF RECORD. Recorded in the records of the Recorder of the county, or in the
records of the Auditor of the county.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. All property, including, but not limited to, vacant land
or any land upon which is located one or more buildings or other structures
designated or used for residential, commercial, business, industrial,
institutional, or religious purposes, together with any yard, grounds, walks,
driveways, fences, porches, or other structures or improvements appurtenant to
the land, except any public place.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any condition within the town which is injurious to the
health, or indecent, or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free
use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or
property. Any machinery not connected with the operation of a household or
business, or any equipment, refrigerator, or freezer with doors intact, in any
open or unfenced place, or in any building or structure to which the public has
access is a PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, and all public
parks, lakes, spaces, publicly owned rights-of-way, grounds, or buildings
within the corporate limits of the town, or owned by the town.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this subchapter,
including a fee interest, a life estate interest, a future interest, a present
possessory interest, or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser.
   TOWN. All areas within the municipal boundaries of the town as of the date
of this passage, and as thereafter amended or changed by annexation.
(Prior Code, § 34-1-52-1) (Ord. 5-3-77, passed 5-3-1977; Ord. 2020-10, passed
10-27-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Nuisances defined, abatement procedure, see I.C. 32-30-6-6
§ 90.02 VEHICLE NOISE.
   No person shall operate any vehicle on or upon any town highway so that any
unreasonably loud, excessive, or unusual noise is created, increased, or
maintained which annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, or peace of any person.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-6-35) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Vehicle equipment noise, see I.C. 9-19-5
§ 90.03 UNINHABITABLE BUILDINGS.
   Any building or portion of a building which is unfit for habitation or
constitutes a source of danger to the health and safety of the inhabitants of
the town due to its lack of repair, unsanitary condition, infestation with
rodents, vermin, or insects is a public nuisance and shall be abated according
to the procedure set forth in state law.
(Prior Code, § 16-1-25-1) (Ord. 5-3-77, passed 5-3-1977) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Unsafe building regulations, see §§ 151.15 through 151.17
Statutory reference:
   Local ordinances governing dwellings, see I.C. 16-41-20
§ 90.04 OTHER NUISANCES DESCRIBED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following list includes, but is not
limited to, conditions which may constitute a nuisance:
   (A)   Litter;
   (B)   Accumulations of weeds, rubbish, trash, refuse, junk, or other
abandoned materials, metals, and lumber;
   (C)   Fallen trees, stumps, dead trees, cut brush, or fallen or cut limbs,
except stacked firewood;
   (D)   Boxes, appliances, household items, and tires;
   (E)   Demolition remains;
   (F)   Open excavations, uncovered or improperly covered holes, whether lined
or unlined, and dirt piles on any open or unfenced real property within the
town, unless the dirt will be utilized in the future on the property in
question;
   (G)   Automobile parts, unlicensed and/or inoperable vehicles, disassembled
automobiles, automobiles without engines, plumbing and piping materials, and
parts, scrap metal, unseaworthy or dilapidated boats, dilapidated,
deteriorated, or non-operable jet skis, snowmobiles, bicycles, trailers, or
mopeds;
   (H)   Structures defaced with paint, graffiti, or wording;
   (I)   Any waste water, filth, offal, garbage, rubbish, animal waste, human
excrement, which is deposited, allowed, or caused to be upon any public or
private property;
   (J)   Any water or any other substance which is caused or permitted to flow
onto or be deposited upon any private or public way, except natural surface
water drainage;
   (K)   Any dead animal or animal parts;
   (L)   The erection of a dam or any other obstruction by a private party
which prevents the natural flow of water and causes it to collect and pool upon
any public property;
   (M)   Any real or personal property which is infected with contagious
disease or is likely to cause an immediate health hazard;
   (N)   The placing or accumulating on or within any real or personal
property, or the permitting of the same, or any matter which attracts rodents,
insects, or domestic or wild animals in such manner as to create a health
hazard, or an unsanitary or dangerous condition;
   (O)   Any real or personal property, used as a place, or residence or
habitation, or for sleeping, that is maintained in such a way as to be
dangerous or detrimental to life or health due to lack of or defects in water,
drainage, heat, electricity, plumbing, ventilation, or garbage and trash
removal;
   (P)   The storage of any explosive, combustible, or other material which
creates a safety or health hazard;
   (Q)   Trees, shrubbery, weeds, or other matter obstructing public ways, or
causing visual barriers which create vehicular traffic or pedestrian safety
hazards;
   (R)   (1)   Trash or garbage containers left upon the sidewalk, the area
between a street and a sidewalk, or the front or side yard, or any public
place, except as permitted by ordinance for trash and garbage collection
purposes on regular collection days. Provided that, in those cases where it is
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the enforcement authority that there is no
physical possibility of locating trash containers at a site other than in one
of the locations prohibited under this division (R), the enforcement authority
is authorized to issue written variances from this section upon such terms and
conditions as the enforcement authority deems appropriate.
      (2)   Such variance may not allow permanent placement of such containers
on a public place. Records shall be maintained of all such variances issued,
and the reasons justifying the issuance thereof;
   (S)   Trash or garbage strewn upon the ground in the vicinity of trash or
garbage containers, unless enclosed in containers or bags as authorized by
ordinance on regular collection days;
   (T)   Any furniture, not originally designed or manufactured solely for
outdoor use, or furniture which was originally designed or manufactured for
outdoor use, which is now dilapidated or deteriorated;
   (U)   Accumulations of stagnant water;
   (V)   Any real or personal property infested with insects, rats, vermin, or
wild or domestic animals, to a degree that prevents the reasonable use and
enjoyment of adjoining and surrounding properties; and
   (W)   Basketball goals or other privately owned structures erected in, or
infringing upon, any public place, or right-of-way, which are deemed to create
a safety hazard to the public.
(Ord. 2020-10, passed 10-27-2020)
§ 90.05 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   It is made the duty of the Council members and town employees to
report the existence of nuisances to the enforcement authority.
   (B)   The enforcement authority, or its representative, shall be authorized
to visit, enter into, or upon the building, lot, grounds, or premises within
the limits of the town for the purpose of ascertaining and discovering any
nuisances to make examination thereof.
(Ord. 2020-10, passed 10-27-2020)
§ 90.06 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Where, upon inspection, reasonable cause is found to believe that a
nuisance exists, the enforcement authority shall issue a written abatement
notice.
   (B)   (1)   Abatement notices shall be served upon any citizen, corporation,
partnership, or sole proprietorship who allegedly created the nuisance, or all
known holders of substantial property interests in the real estate upon which
the nuisance is alleged to exist.
      (2)   If the resident or occupant of the premises is not the owner of
record of the real estate, the enforcement authority is authorized to serve the
owner of record as shown in the records of the Auditor of the county in
addition to other known holders of substantial property interests, including
the resident or occupant.
   (C)   The abatement notice must contain:
      (1)   The name of the person, corporation, partnership, or sole
proprietorship to whom the order is issued;
      (2)   The legal description or address of the real estate where the
nuisance is located which is the subject of the notice, if applicable;
      (3)   The action that the notice requires. The ordered action must be
reasonably related to abatement of the conditions constituting the nuisance;
      (4)   The period of time within which the action ordered is required to
be accomplished, measured from the time when the abatement notice is served.
The time allowed must allow a sufficient time, of at least 48 hours from the
time the abatement notice is served, to accomplish the required action. If the
notice allows more than 30 days to accomplish the action, the notice may
require that a substantial beginning be made in accomplishing the action within
the initial 30-day period following service of the notice;
      (5)   A statement that the order becomes final ten calendar days after
notice is served, unless a hearing is requested in writing by the citizen,
corporation, partnership, or sole proprietorship, the tenant or occupant, or by
a person holding a substantial property interest in the private premises upon
which the nuisance is alleged to exist. The request for a hearing must be
served upon the enforcement authority prior to the expiration of the
aforementioned ten calendar day period;
      (6)   A statement briefly indicating what action can be taken by the town
if there is a non-compliance with the orders contained in the abatement notice;
and
      (7)   The name, business address, and business telephone number of the
enforcement authority.
   (D)   Service of abatement notices shall be made by any of the following
means:
      (1)   Sending a copy of the notice by registered or certified mail to the
business address of a corporation, partnership, or sole proprietorship, or the
residence or place of business or employment of the person to be notified, with
return receipt requested;
      (2)   Delivering a copy of the notice personally to the person,
corporation, partnership, or sole proprietorship to be notified;
      (3)   Leaving a copy of the notice at the business address of a
corporation, partnership, or sole proprietorship, or the dwelling or usual
place of abode of the person to be notified;
      (4)   Posting a copy of the notice in a prominent place upon the premises
where the nuisance is located; and
      (5)   If, after a reasonable effort, service cannot be obtained by any of
the means described in divisions (D)(1) through (D)(4) above, service may be
made by publishing the notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county in which the property subject to the notice is located. Publication
shall be made one time.
   (E)   The date when notice is considered given is as follows:
      (1)   If the notice is delivered personally or left at the business
office or dwelling, or usual place of abode, notice is considered given on the
day when the order or statement is delivered to the corporation, partnership,
or sole proprietorship, or left at a person’s dwelling or usual place of abode;
      (2)   If the notice is mailed, notice is considered given on the date
shown on the return receipt, or, if no date is shown, on the date when the
return receipt is received by the town utility office; and
      (3)   Notice by publication is considered given on the date of
publication.
   (F)   Where, in the opinion of the enforcement authority, a nuisance exists
which creates a substantial and imminent health or safety hazard requiring
immediate abatement in order to protect health and safety, the enforcement
authority, upon prior approval by the Town Council President, shall abate the
nuisance without the necessity of issuing an abatement notice as set out in
divisions (A) through (E) above.
   (G)   It being the intent of this section to promote the abatement of
nuisances within the town, in those instances where the nuisance is abated to
the satisfaction of the enforcement authority as required in the abatement
notice, or as required by the Town Council after hearing, and within the time
periods set out in the abatement notice, or within any other extended time
periods after the hearing, ordered by the Town Council, no further fines or
penalties will be imposed. The enforcement authority shall make written note of
the compliance, and the enforcement file shall be closed.
   (H)   Failure, neglect, or refusal by a person, corporation, partnership,
sole proprietorship, or the record owner or his or her agent, or the tenant or
occupant, to comply with the orders set out in the abatement notice within the
time periods set out therein, or within any extended time periods agreed to by
the enforcement authority, shall constitute a violation of this chapter and
shall render the party upon whom the abatement notice was served liable to a
fine as set forth in §
90.99. Each day’s failure, neglect, or refusal to abate the nuisance during the
time period allowed for compliance shall constitute a separate offense under
this section. The record owner of the premises upon which the nuisance is found
to exist, and the tenant or occupant may be held jointly and severally liable
for the payment of fines assessed under this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-10, passed 10-27-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to fines imposed under §
90.99, in non-emergency situations where abatement is not accomplished
immediately by the town, failure, neglect, or refusal of any party to abate a
nuisance as required by the abatement notice shall authorize the enforcement
authority to obtain the permission of the Town Council to abate the nuisance as
set out in the abatement notice.
      (2)   Where such permission is sought, the enforcement authority shall
file a copy of the abatement notice with the Recorder of the county, to give
constructive notice to subsequent purchasers that the real estate is subject to
the costs associated with the abatement, if applicable. Work may be
accomplished by town employees if the work is within their capacity to
accomplish, or the work may be advertised for public bid and awarded to the
lowest responsible and responsive bidder. An accurate accounting shall be kept
of all costs incurred in abating the nuisance.
      (3)   Upon completion of the abatement, a statement for costs incurred
shall be forwarded to the person, corporation, partnership, sole
proprietorship, or to the record owner by certified mail. Should such costs
remain unpaid ten calendar days after receipt by the person, corporation,
partnership, sole proprietorship, or owner of record, or upon return of the
certified mail as undeliverable, appropriate legal action may be taken to
compel payment of costs incurred. Any judgment for costs obtained shall be
filed as a judgment lien against the real estate upon which the nuisance was
abated, if applicable.
   (B)   In the alternative, where there has been non-compliance with the
abatement notice, the town is also authorized to seek equitable relief in a
court of competent jurisdiction to compel compliance with the orders set out in
the abatement notice.
(Ord. 2020-10, passed 10-27-2020)
§ 90.08 HEARINGS.
   (A)   Any person, corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, or any
owner, tenant, or occupant, or person holding a substantial property interest
in private premises upon which a nuisance is alleged to exist who disputes the
existence of a nuisance, or disputes the nature of the abatement action ordered
in the abatement notice, may, within ten calendar days of service of the
abatement notice, serve upon the enforcement authority a written request for a
hearing. The written request does not need to be in any particular form, but
shall clearly indicate that a hearing is requested, and shall set out the
nature of the disagreement with the content of the abatement notice.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the written request for a hearing, the enforcement
authority shall place the matter before the Town Council.
   (C)   The enforcement authority shall give written notice to the party
requesting the hearing of the date and time of the hearing. Such notice shall
be given no less than five calendar days prior to the date set for the hearing.
   (D)   (1)   At the hearing, which may be adjourned from time to time, it
shall be the town’s burden to go forward with evidence sufficient to
demonstrate that a nuisance exists, and that the actions required are
reasonably calculated to abate the nuisance within a reasonable period of time.
      (2)   The party requesting the hearing shall have the right to dispute
the existence of the nuisance, the reasonableness of the remedy, or the
reasonableness of the time allowed for remedial action. The party requesting
the hearing may propose alternative remedies, or time period for remedial
action, or alternate remediation plans.
   (E)   At the hearing, both sides may present witnesses, elicit testimony,
introduce physical evidence, cross-examine opposing witnesses, or dispute
evidence submitted by their hearing opponent. Both sides may present oral
arguments. Both sides may be represented by counsel.
   (F)   All such hearings shall be open to the public, pursuant to state
statutes on open meetings.
   (G)   (1)   Upon conclusion of the presentation of evidence and oral
argument, if any, the Council shall deliberate and render a decision either
confirming, amending, or rescinding the disputed content of the abatement
notice.
      (2)   The decision of the Council shall be final.
   (H)   (1)   All time parameters set out in the abatement notice for
completion of compliance actions shall be tolled, pending the outcome of the
Council’s decision.
      (2)   In cases where the actions of the enforcement authority are upheld,
or are upheld as modified by the Council, it shall be the responsibility of the
Council, in its decision, to establish time periods for completion of
compliance activities held in abeyance during the hearing process.
(Ord. 2020-10, passed 10-27-2020)
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 90.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Shall mean:
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property continuously without being moved
for three days;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of vehicle or pedestrian
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner, or person in control, of the property for more than 48 hours;
      (5)   A vehicle from which there has been removed the engine,
transmission, or differential, or that is otherwise partially dismantled or
inoperable and left on public property;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or a public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance, other than
I.C. 9-22-1, if the vehicle, once impounded, is not claimed or redeemed by the
owner within 15 days of its removal; or
      (7)   A vehicle that is six or more model years old and mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 30 days.
   JUNK VEHICLE. Any disassembled, inoperable, unlicensed, wrecked, or
abandoned motor vehicle, unless the same is stored for use in connection with
an automotive sales or repair business or enterprise which operates under a
duly licensed and exhibited store license, or a junk yard which is duly
operated and licensed under any applicable statutes or ordinances.
(Ord. 93-05-03, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 90.21 NOTICE.
   An officer who finds a vehicle or parts believed to be a public nuisance on
private property shall tag vehicle with the following information:
   (A)   The date, officer’s name, property or vehicle owner;
   (B)   The vehicle or parts which are considered abandoned or junk;
   (C)   The vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours;
   (D)   The owner will be held responsible for all costs incurred by the town
in removing said vehicle or parts, in addition to a fine of $100 plus any court
costs for each violation; and
   (E)   The owner may avoid costs by removal of the vehicle or parts within 72
hours.
(Ord. 2014-6, passed 7-9-2014)
§ 90.22 PUBLIC AGENCY DESIGNATION.
   The office of Town Marshal is hereby designated as the public agency within
the meaning of I.C. 9-22-1 which has the responsibility for removal, storage,
and disposal of abandoned vehicles.
(Ord. 2014-6, passed 7-9-2014)
§ 90.23 METHOD OF DISPOSAL.
   Seized, abandoned, or junk vehicles shall be disposed of as provided in I.C.
9-22-1.
(Ord. 2014-6, passed 7-9-2014)
§ 90.24 FEES FOR TOWING AND STORAGE.
   The charges allowed for towing and storage of abandoned or junk vehicles
shall be established by the person towing and storing the vehicle.
(Ord. 2014-6, passed 7-9-2014)
LITTERING
§ 90.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible wastes resulting from the consumption, cooking,
growing, handling, preparation, or storage of food.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Explosives, pathological wastes, and radioactive
chemicals and materials, but is not limited to those items.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes, and includes
ashes, dead animals, construction and industrial ashes, rubbish, and street
sweepings.
   RUBBISH. All non-putrescible wastes, including ashes, boxes, broken glass,
cans, crockery, dirt, grass, metalware, wood shavings, or litter of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 35-45-3-2)
§ 90.36 PROHIBITION IN PUBLIC SPACES.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit any garbage, hazardous material,
refuse, or rubbish upon or along any highway, sidewalk, gutter, or public place
in the town.
   (B)   No person shall allow any garbage, hazardous material, refuse, or
rubbish to accumulate upon any premises within the town or upon or along the
sidewalks, gutters, or highways immediately abutting any premises, or upon or
along any public place. Every owner, occupant, or lessee of property within the
town shall dispose of such materials and not allow them to accumulate. The
accumulation of garbage, hazardous material, refuse, or rubbish constitutes a
public nuisance which shall be abated according to the procedures set forth in
state law.
   (C)   No person shall transport any garbage, hazardous material, refuse, or
rubbish upon or along any highway, sidewalk, gutter, or public place in the
town if that garbage, hazardous material, refuse or rubbish is on, upon, or
within a vehicle, vessel, or container which allows those items to leak, drop,
spill, or scatter upon or along any highway, sidewalk, gutter, or public place
in the town.
(Prior Code, § 35-45-3-2) (Ord. 09-02-75, passed 9-2-1975; Ord. 5-3-77, passed
5-3-1977) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of §
90.02 shall be deemed to have committed an ordinance violation and, upon
conviction, shall be fined not less than $25 and not more than $100, in
addition to court costs.
      (2)   If any person charged with a violation of any provision of §
90.02 pays the sum of $15 to the Clerk/Treasurer within 72 hours after
receiving written notice of the charge by the Police Department, no further
proceedings shall be commenced or continued against that person due to that
violation of §
90.02.
(Prior Code, § 9-8-6-35)
   (C)   Any person who maintains a public nuisance, as described in §
90.03, or who permits a public nuisance to be maintained on any property under
the control of that person shall be deemed to have committed an ordinance
violation and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than
$200, in addition to court costs. Each day a public nuisance is established or
maintained constitutes a separate ordinance violation.
(Prior Code, § 16-1-25-1)
   (D)   In addition to any costs imposed under §§
90.01, and
90.04 through
90.08, any person, corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, or owner,
occupant, or tenant of real estate who is found to have violated §§
90.01, and
90.04 through
90.08, or willfully or negligently failed to comply with any provision of §§
90.01, and
90.04 through
90.08, or with any orders issued hereunder, shall be fined not less than $100,
nor more than $1,000 for each offense. Each day a violation shall occur or
continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense. Citations for
violations of §§
90.01, and
90.04 through
90.08 may be issued by the enforcement authority or by the Town Marshal, or one
of his or her deputies. The uniform traffic citation may be utilized for the
purpose of evidencing violation of §§
90.01, and
90.04 through
90.08. Enforcement shall be in effect by the filing of a civil suit seeking
judgment in the amount of the fine imposed, plus court costs.
   (E)   Any person who violates any provision of §
90.36 shall be deemed to have committed an ordinance violation and, upon
conviction, shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $200, in addition to
court costs. Each day a violation continues constitutes a separate ordinance
violation.
(Prior Code, § 35-45-3-2)
(Ord. 09-02-75, passed 9-2-1975; Ord. 5-3-77, passed 5-3-1977; Ord. 2020-10,
passed 10-27-2020)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   License required
   
91.03   Limit on number of dogs to be kept; kennel license
   
91.04   Keeping of chickens
   
91.05   Enforcement
   
91.06   Disposition of monies collected for animal control
   
91.07   Report of vehicular collision with animal
Impoundment
   
91.20   Rabies vaccination required; impoundment
   
91.21   Apprehension and impounding
   
91.22   Notice to owner of impoundment
   
91.23   Redemption and disposition of impounded animals
   
91.24   Humane treatment
Dangerous Animals
   
91.35   Potentially dangerous animals
   
91.36   Owner responsibility for animal attacks
Prohibitions
   
91.50   Prohibitions
   
91.51   Animal cruelty
   
91.52   Animal waste
   
91.53   Animals in vehicles
Confinement Feeding Operations
   
91.65   Definitions
   
91.66   Permitted use
   
91.67   Applicability
   
91.68   Exceptions
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. To desert any animal, or leave any animals without making
provisions for long term care of that animal, or to leave in a place without
the expressed permission of the property owner.
   ANIMAL. Any live, non-human vertebrate creature, domestic or wild.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person who is authorized to implement and
enforce town animal care and control ordinances, as described in state
statutes.
   ANIMAL CRUELTY. An intentional or malicious act(s) whereby necessary or
unjustifiable pain, suffering, or death is caused.
   ANIMAL NEGLECT. The same definition as found in I.C. 35-46-3-.05(4).
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility operated by Department of Animal Services or a
municipal agency, or its authorized agents, for the purpose of impounding or
caring for animals held under the authority of this chapter or state law.
   AT LARGE. Any place elsewhere than on the owner’s premises, and:
      (1)   Not restrained by a leash; or
      (2)   Not under the immediate and complete control of a person capable of
controlling such animal.
   AUTHORIZED AGENT. Any law enforcement officer or authorized employees of the
Department of Animal Services.
   BAIT. Using an animal as a lure to provoke an attack upon that animal for
the purpose of dog fighting or to cause the intentional harm or death of that
animal.
   CARE (ADEQUATE AND HUMANE). Providing an animal with the following:
      (1)   Adequate food and water;
      (2)   Adequate shelter;
      (3)   Adequate space; and
      (4)   Adequate VETERINARY CARE, as defined in this section, necessary to
maintain the health of the animal with regard to its specific age, size,
species, and breed.
   CAT. All domestic members of the feline family of animals.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that, according to the records of the Department of
Animal Services and/or the town:
      (1)   Has aggressively bitten, attacked, or endangered, or has inflicted
severe injury or death on a human being on public or private property;
      (2)   Has been used primarily or in part for the purpose of dog fighting
or is a dog trained for dog fighting; or
      (3)   Has been listed as a potentially dangerous dog by the Department of
Animal Services, and exhibits behavior warranting listing as a DANGEROUS DOG.
   DEPARTMENT OF ANIMAL SERVICES. The Town of Windfall or its designated agents
or employees.
   DOG. All domestic members of the canine family of animals.
   HARBOR.
      (1)   The actions of any person who permits any animal to habitually
remain, or lodge, or to be fed within his or her home, store, enclosure, yard,
or place of business, or any premises on which such person resides or controls.
      (2)   An animal shall be presumed HARBORED if it is fed or sheltered for
three days.
   KENNEL. A facility operated principally for the purpose of boarding,
housing, grooming, breeding, or training dogs or cats. The facility must be
located a minimum of 1,000 feet from the closest dwelling.
   LESS SEVERE INJURY. Any injury caused that results in a minor puncture,
piercing, or breaking of the skin made with teeth, fangs, or claws of any
animal that does not require extensive medical treatment.
   OF RECORD. Recorded in the records of the Recorder of the county, or in the
records of the Auditor of the county.
   OWNER. Any person or persons owning or having the care, custody, or control
of any animal.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog which, when unprovoked, engages in any behavior that
requires a defensive action by any person to prevent bodily injury when the
person and the dog are off the property of the dog’s owner;
      (2)   Any dog which, when unprovoked, bites a person causing a LESS
SEVERE INJURY, as defined in this section;
      (3)   Any dog which, when unprovoked, has killed, seriously bitten,
inflicted injury, or otherwise caused injury attacking a domestic animal off
the property of the owner or keeper of the dog;
      (4)   Any dog which chases or menaces a person; or
      (5)   Any dog which runs at large.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE.
      (1)   As related to animals, shall mean any animal or animals that:
         (a)   Attacks passers-by or passing vehicles;
         (b)   Damages public or private property;
         (c)   Are not confined while in estrus (heat);
         (d)   Barks, whines, or howls in an excessive or continuous fashion,
unreasonable under the circumstances, as to violate the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood; or
         (e)   Do not have a permanent means of identification as provided for
in this chapter.
      (2)   It shall also be a PUBLIC NUISANCE to harbor more than four dogs or
cats over the age of four months, unless classified as a kennel.
   RESTRAINT. The securing of an animal by leash or confining it within the
real property limits by its owner.
   SECURE ENCLOSURE.
      (1)   The dog/cat is securely and humanely confined on the owner’s
property within a house, building, locked pen, or other enclosure that is
designed to prevent the potentially dangerous dog from escaping over, under, or
through the enclosure (known as the PRIMARY ENCLOSURE).
      (2)   If the dog is maintained outside, a portion of the owner’s property
must be fenced with a secured perimeter fence of sufficient height and strength
to prevent entry by the public, and to prevent the dog’s escape from the
owner’s property.
   STRAY. Any animal that does not appear, upon reasonable inquiry, to have an
owner.
   TOWN. All areas within the municipal boundaries of the town as of the date
of this passage, and as thereafter amended or changed by annexation.
   VETERINARY CARE.
      (1)   Care provided under direction of a licensed veterinarian and
including medical care necessary to maintain an animal’s health and prevent
unnecessary suffering.
      (2)   Adequate care is based on age, species, and breed, and the
potential for a disease or condition to spread to other animals or humans,
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Ongoing infections;
         (b)   Infestation of parasites;
         (c)   Any disease; or
         (d)   Any medical condition or injury where withholding or neglecting
to provide such care would endanger the health or welfare of the animal.
   WATER. 
      (1)   Clean, fresh, potable water sufficient to prevent dehydration,
properly sustain health, and prevent significant risk to the animal’s health.
      (2)   Snow, ice, or rancid or contaminated water are excluded from the
definition of adequate WATER.
   WILD ANIMALS. Any non-domesticated animal, with the exception of small non-
poisonous aquatic or amphibious animals and small caged birds, and any
domesticated animal including, but not limited to, horses, cattle, pigs,
chickens, and roosters.
(Ord. 2020-10, passed 10-27-2020)
§ 91.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall harbor any animal within the town without first
obtaining any required license.
   (B)   All dogs, over the age of six months, harbored or owned by any
persons, partnership, or corporation residing in the town shall be registered
and licensed annually by the Police Department or its designee not later than
March 15, as provided herein.
   (C)   Any person making application for a dog license shall state, on forms
provided for such purposes, the owner’s name and address, and the dog’s name,
breed, color, and date of present rabies inoculation. In addition, each
applicant shall present a rabies inoculation tag and/or certificate of
inoculation from a veterinarian, duly licensed by the state, showing proof such
dog has been inoculated for rabies within the current year or immediate
preceding year.
   (D)   The applicant for each spayed or neutered dog, so registered, shall
pay a fee of $4. The applicant for each un-spayed or un-neutered dog shall pay
a registration fee of $8.
   (E)   Upon payment of the registration fee, completion of the registration
form, and presentation of the rabies vaccination tag and veterinarian’s
certificate, the Police Department or its designee shall issue to the applicant
a receipt and a metallic tag or a tag of another durable material for each dog
so licensed.
   (F)   The shape of the tag shall be changed every year and shall be stamped
thereon the year for which it was issued and the number corresponding with the
serial number of the receipt. The owner shall provide each dog with a collar,
and tags are to be worn by the dog so licensed at all times. In the case the
dog license tag is destroyed or lost, a duplicate tag shall be issued on the
presentation of the receipt showing payment for a certificate for the current
year, along with the rabies vaccination tags, and on payment of $2 for such
duplicate. Dog licenses, certificates, and rabies vaccination tags shall not be
transferable from one dog to another, and no refund shall be made on any dog
license fee because of the death of the dog or because of any other reason.
   (G)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any dog show, nor to
any seeing-eye dogs trained to assist blind persons, nor dogs trained to assist
the hearing impaired, when such dogs are actually used for such purposes, and
not to dogs kept in kennels licensed by the state, or government agencies,
while those dogs are actually in such kennels.
   (H)   No person shall refuse to exhibit any license required by this section
to any town official, police officer, or law enforcement agency.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 LIMIT ON NUMBER OF DOGS TO BE KEPT; KENNEL LICENSE.
   (A)   A person or persons who seeks to keep on their property four to seven
dogs shall apply for a kennel license with the Town Council or its designee.
Prior to the issuance of the license, a public hearing must be held with a
certified mailing of notice 30 days prior to the hearing to neighbors on the
north, south, east, and west of the applicant setting forth the applicant’s
request, name, address, and telephone number. Neighbors across the street and
across an alley are to be included. In addition, a sign furnished by the town
with dimensions of three-feet by four-feet shall be placed and kept in the
front yard notifying all neighbors of the application for a kennel license and
the date and time of the hearing. It shall be the duty of the applicant to
inform the Council of his or her plan to eliminate noise, which would be in
violation of any municipal ordinance, the elimination of any noxious odor, and
the method for animal waste disposal. The Town Council or its designee shall
only issue such permit if there are no objections from the neighbors. Any
kennel license permit issued shall be subject to revocation by the Town Council
or its designee in the event of any future neighbor complaints.
   (B)   An annual kennel license shall be required, in addition to the
individual dog registration, for any person or harborer of more that three dogs
residing in the town. The kennel license shall be registered by the Police
Department not later than March 15, as provided here. Each animal in an
approved kennel must also have its own registration and rabies tags.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor, or maintain more
than three dogs in excess of six months of age upon any premises or property or
in any dwelling or living quarters of any type within the town unless said dogs
live in quarters that are approved by the Police Department or its designee,
and said persons are in compliance with zoning standards and the animal care
standards set forth in Section 3-20 are met and subject to the provisions of
Section 3.3(a) and (b.)
      (1)   The Police Department or its designee shall not register or issue
tags on more than three dogs that are kept upon any premises or property, or in
any dwelling or living quarters of any type within the town until an inspection
has been completed and a favorable decision rendered.
      (2)   The inspection process will be completed every six months after the
initial application.
      (3)   The fee for each inspection shall be $100.
      (4)   If the authorized inspection is administered by an incorporated
Humane Society, then the Humane Society is entitled to retain the fee.
      (5)   (a)   Each kennel owner shall be charged an inspection fee of $100
for each inspection which shall be payable at the time of application for the
inspection.
         (b)   Any deficiencies on the part of the kennel owner or owners shall
be corrected within ten days after the inspection and before the kennel license
will be issued.
      (6)   Enclosures must be provided which shall allow adequate protection
against weather extremes. Floors of buildings, runs, and walls shall be of a
material to permit proper cleaning and disinfecting.
      (7)   Building temperature shall be maintained at a comfortable level.
Adequate ventilation shall be maintained.
      (8)   Each animal shall have sufficient space to stand up, lie down, and
turn around in a natural position without touching the sides or the top of the
cages.
      (9)   Cages are to be of material and construction that permit cleaning
and sanitizing.
      (10)   An annual kennel license shall be required subject to the
provisions of Section 3.3(a) and (b), in addition to the individual dog
registration, for any owner or harborer of more than three dogs residing in the
town. The kennel shall be registered by the Police Department not later than
March 15, as provided herein. Each animal in an approved kennel must also have
its own tags. The maximum total number of dogs allowed under this section shall
be seven, which includes the maximum number of three allowed without a kennel
license.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 KEEPING OF CHICKENS.
   Residents of the town may maintain up to 12 chickens on their property, so
long as the chickens are properly restrained in cages and not “free range/free
roaming” at any time. Residents of the town shall not maintain roosters,
regardless of restrictions on movement or cages.
(Ord. 2021-13, passed 8-10-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any authorized agent of the town is given authority to:
      (1)   Kill any dangerous, or potentially dangerous, dog found at large
within the town which cannot be safely captured and impounded by ordinary
means; except that every reasonable effort shall be made to avoid killing an
animal which has bitten or is suspected of having bitten a person, or which
appears to have rabies. If the killing of the animal cannot reasonably be
avoided, the said authorized agent shall attempt to kill the animal in such a
manner so as to preserve the head thereof intact.
      (2)   Enter upon the land in the town when in pursuit of any animal which
the said agent has reasonable cause to believe is in violation of this chapter,
except that such agent is not authorized to enter any building without consent
of the occupant.
      (3)   Issue citations for any alleged violation of this chapter, even if
not personally observed by the agent.
      (4)   Do all things necessary to effectuate the enforcement of this
chapter.
   (B)   The town or its agents or employees shall be primarily responsible for
the enforcement of this chapter. Additional enforcement shall be through
proceedings brought by the Town Attorney, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-3 and the
related state statutes referred to therein.
(Ord. 2020-10, passed 10-27-2020)
§ 91.06 DISPOSITION OF MONIES COLLECTED FOR ANIMAL CONTROL.
   All monies or fines collected pursuant to this chapter shall be paid to the
Town Clerk/Treasurer.
(Ord. 2020-10, passed 10-27-2020)
§ 91.07 REPORT OF VEHICULAR COLLISION WITH ANIMAL.
   (A)   A person whose vehicle causes injury or death to a domestic or wild
animal in the town shall immediately notify the animal’s owner, if known, or a
local law enforcement agency, together with a description of the animal struck,
the location of the striking, and an estimate as to the condition of the animal
after being struck.
   (B)   Such person shall not be required to report his or her name, as the
only purpose of this requirement is to aid the stricken animal and notify its
owner, if any.
Penalty, see §
91.99
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 91.20 RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED; IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall harbor any cat or dog which is six months or
older and which has not been vaccinated against rabies.
      (2)   A rabies vaccination tag issued by a licensed veterinarian
indicating that the animal has been vaccinated for rabies during the calendar
year, being easily readable, an identification tag designating the owner of the
animal and the owner’s address, and a dog tag issued by the office of the
County Assessor shall be deemed proof of compliance with this section.
   (B)   (1)   Any domestic animal which has bitten a person shall be impounded
at the expense of the owner for a period of not less than 14 days until the
County Health Officer can determine if the animal is rabid.
      (2)   (a)   If the animal dies while impounded, a test shall be conducted
at the expense of the owner to determine if the animal was rabid.
         (b)   The death of any animal suspected to have been rabid shall be
reported to the County Health Officer immediately following the discovery of
its death.
   (C)   Any domestic animal which has been bitten by an animal suspected to be
rabid shall be confined for a period of six months at the expense of the owner
or shall be destroyed.
   (D)   (1)   No person who knows or suspects that an animal under his or her
control is rabid shall allow that animal to leave his or her control except to
be taken to an animal shelter or a veterinarian.
      (2)   Any person who knows or suspects that an animal is rabid shall
immediately notify the Police Department or the County Health Officer.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 APPREHENSION AND IMPOUNDING.
   It is the duty of persons and agencies so authorized by the town to
apprehend and impound:
   (A)   Any dog or cat at large, or any dog or cat deemed a public nuisance;
   (B)   Any dog not wearing a proper registration tag;
   (C)   Any dog or cat not wearing a proper rabies vaccination tag;
   (D)   Any animal which has bitten or is suspected of having bitten a person,
or which appears to have rabies;
   (E)   Any dangerous dog; or
   (F)   Any potentially dangerous dog outside of its secure structure.
(Ord. 2020-10, passed 10-27-2020)
§ 91.22 NOTICE TO OWNER OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Not later than three days after impounding of a dog which was wearing
an identification or registration tag at the time of its impoundment, the
caretaker shall notify the owner advising of the impounding of the dog.
   (B)   If the owner fails to redeem said dog within five days after notice by
mail, phone, or electronic mail, the owner loses ownership of the dog, and it
may be destroyed or possession given to the town or its agents or employees.
   (C)   This notice provision shall apply to any animal impounded under this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2020-10, passed 10-27-2020)
§ 91.23 REDEMPTION AND DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any healthy dog or cat apprehended or impounded may be redeemed by the
owner or other persons as authorized in this section within five days of such
apprehension, upon showing that the dog has a current registration tag and the
dog or cat has a current rabies vaccination tag, and the payment of the
following fees:
      (1)   If the dog or cat has been apprehended by an agent of the town, the
fee set forth annually by the Town Council; and
      (2)   A reasonable fee for room and board for each day or fraction
thereof, during which the dog or cat was impounded.
   (B)   After five days, the dog or cat may be destroyed or possession given
to the town or its agents or employees.
   (C)   Divisions (A)(1), (A)(2), and (B) above shall apply to any animal
impounded under this subchapter.
   (D)   Any animal impounded, for any reason, which appears to any duly
licensed veterinarian to have any infectious or contagious disease, other than
rabies, may be destroyed forthwith.
   (E)   Any person bitten by an animal must report the incident to the County
Health Department.
   (F)   Any dog or cat apprehended and impounded for having bitten a person,
being suspected of having bitten a person, or appearing to have rabies, shall
be assessed by the Department of Animal Services to determine whether the bite
constitutes the dog being dangerous or potentially dangerous. If so assessed,
the provisions of this subchapter related to those dogs shall supersede this
provision. Otherwise, the dog or cat shall be kept under observation at the
Department of Animal Services for a minimum of ten days unless such dog or cat
shall sooner die. At the expiration of said ten-day period, the animal may be
redeemed by the owner or other person as provided in this section, upon showing
that the dog has a current registration tag, and the animal has a rabies
vaccination tag, and by payment of the fees as set forth in division (A) above;
provided, however, home quarantine of an owned animal may be allowed by the
County Health Department.
(Ord. 2020-10, passed 10-27-2020)
§ 91.24 HUMANE TREATMENT.
   Every owner or harborer within the town shall see that each of his or her
animals:
   (A)   Is kept in a clean, sanitary, and healthy manner, and is not confined
so as to be forced to stand, sit, or lie in its own excrement;
   (B)   Has sufficient and wholesome food and water which is proper and
nutritional for that species of animal;
   (C)   Has a proper and adequate structure provided that will protect that
animal from all elements of the weather and will allow that animal to stand,
sit, and lie down without restriction;
   (D)   Has easy access in and out of its structure;
   (E)   Has an opening on its structure on no more than one side that allows
the animal to remain dry and has a floor that is level, dry, and raised, if
necessary, to prevent water/snow from entering the structure;
   (F)   Has a solid roof sloped away from the entrance, be free from cracks,
depressions, and rough areas that might be conducive to insects, parasites, and
other pests;
   (G)   Has a structure of adequate size to allow the animal to stand erect
with the animals’s head up, turn around easily, and to sit and lie down in a
comfortable and normal position;
   (H)   When the temperature is 80 degrees or higher, or whenever appropriate
for a particular dog’s breed, age, body, and health condition, offer adequate
shade during daylight hours, provided by trees, a tarp, or other means, that
prevents overheating or discomfort to the animal;
   (I)   When the temperature is 32 degrees or lower, or whenever appropriate
for a particular dog’s breed, age, body, and health condition, include
sufficient, dry bedding material or other means of protection from the weather
that will allow the animal to retain body heat when the weather is colder than
what an animal of that breed and condition can comfortably tolerate;
   (J)   If ill, diseased, or injured, receives proper veterinary care as
necessary to promote the good health of the animal and prevent the transmittal
of a disease to other animals or human beings;
   (K)   Is not abandoned, neglected, or tortured;
   (L)   If a dog over the age of six months, is properly vaccinated against
rabies annually pursuant to I.C. 35-46-3-1; and
   (M)   Is not tethered by use of a choke collar or on a leash less than 12
feet in length or of such weight as to prevent the animal from moving about
freely.
Penalty, see §
91.99
DANGEROUS ANIMALS
§ 91.35 POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   Every person responsible for a potentially dangerous dog shall:
   (A)   Obtain and maintain a secure enclosure to confine the dog and must
have posted on the premises a clearly visible warning sign, reading, in letters
not less than two inches high, “Beware of Dog” at each entry point that informs
both children and adults of the presence of a vicious dog on the property.
   (B)   In order to protect the public and to afford relief from the severe
harm and injury that is likely to result from a dog attack, the owner of a
vicious dog shall obtain and maintain insurance in the minimum amount of
$50,000 to provide for insurance against liability for damage to persons and
property caused by the vicious dog. Insurance shall be provided by an insurance
company authorized to do business in the state, and the owner shall file a
certificate of insurance with the Department of Animal Services.
   (C)   (1)   A potentially dangerous dog must not be outside a proper
enclosure unless the dog is muzzled and securely restrained by a leash of not
more than six feet in length and is under the control of the owner or competent
custodian 18 years of age or older. The muzzle must be made in a manner that
will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration,
but will prevent it from biting any human or animal.
      (2)   The owner may exercise the dog outside of its primary enclosure
without a muzzle or leash only if the dog remains on the owner’s property
within the secured perimeter fence and only if the dog remains within the
owner’s sight and control at all times, and only members of the owner’s
immediate household or persons 18 years of age or older are allowed within the
perimeter fence while the dog is present.
      (3)   When being transported, such dog must be safely and securely
restrained within a vehicle.
   (D)   No potentially dangerous dog shall be chained, tethered, or otherwise
tied to any inanimate object, such as a tree, post, or building that is outside
its proper enclosure while unattended by the owner or competent custodian.
   (E)   The owner of a potentially dangerous animal shall consent to periodic
inspections by the town or its agents or employees.
   (F)   The owner of any potentially dangerous dog shall have such dog
permanently identified by means of a microchip at the owner’s expense, and the
owner of any potentially dangerous dog shall provide the town or its agents or
employees with a color photograph of the dog taken within the last 12 months,
suitable for use in identifying the dog.
   (G)   (1)   Any potentially dangerous dog, which has escaped from its fenced
enclosure, may be impounded by the town or its agents or employees, whether or
not it has been returned to its enclosure at the time of impoundment.
      (2)   If impounded pursuant to this section, the animal shall not be
returned to a person responsible for it.
   (H)   (1)   Any potentially dangerous dog found at large or not confined as
required by this subchapter may be captured and impounded, and it shall be
returned to its owner only if the enforcement authority, in its discretion,
determines that such return will not result in further or ongoing violations of
this subchapter.
      (2)   If such determination cannot be made, or if the dog’s actions have
caused serious injury, the enforcement officer shall apply to a court of
competent jurisdiction for an order to dispose of the animal.
(Ord. 2020-10, passed 10-27-2020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.36 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANIMAL ATTACKS.
   (A)   An owner or keeper of an animal commits a violation of this subchapter
if that animal chases or approaches in an aggressive manner and/or attacks a
person or another domestic animal resulting in an injury who did not provoke
the animal prior to attack.
   (B)   It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section if:
      (1)   The violation of division (A) above occurred in an enclosure in
which the animal was confined without means of escape, there was posted at the
main entrance of the enclosure a notice to beware of the animal, and the person
or animal attacked entered the enclosure without invitation; or
      (2)   The violation of division (A) above occurred during the commission
or attempted commission of, or escape from, a criminal act on the property of
the owner or keeper of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   A person violating this section may be fined up to $500 per
occurrence. If a judgment is entered under this section the court, in its
discretion, may enter a finding that the animal is deemed a vicious animal for
purposes of §
91.35.
      (2)   If the violation results in the animal causing serious injury or
death to any person or animal, the court, upon request, may order the animal
forfeited or destroyed.
   (D)   The liability imposed by this section shall not reduce, substitute
for, or in any manner be deemed to be in derogation of the rights accorded
victims of a dog bite injury or property damages as provided for at I.C. 15-20-
1-3 et seq. or by common law.
PROHIBITIONS
§ 91.50 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to allow, suffer, or permit an
animal to be at large within the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, molest, or interfere
with any authorized official in the performance of any duty described in this
subchapter.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to permit said
animal to be a public nuisance within the town.
      (2)   Furthermore, it shall be unlawful for any owner of any animal to
recklessly or carelessly fail to exercise care and control over said animal in
such a way that the animal is a public nuisance.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor a
dangerous dog or wild animal within the town.
(Ord. 2020-10, passed 10-27-2020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.51 ANIMAL CRUELTY.
   (A)   A person who does any of the following shall commit animal cruelty
under this section:
      (1)   Willfully or maliciously kills, abuses, maims, tortures, or
disfigures any animal, or willfully or maliciously administers poison to any
animal, or exposes any poisonous substances with the intent that the poisonous
substance shall be taken and swallowed by such animal;
      (2)   Overloads, overworks, torments, or intentionally deprives an animal
of its necessary food, water, or shelter, resulting in preventable suffering or
death;
      (3)   Beats, mutilates, uses for the purpose of BAIT, as defined in §
91.01, or causes said actions to occur; or
      (4)   Engages in any of the following:
         (a)   Owns, possesses, keeps, or trains any animal with the intent
that such animal be engaged in an exhibition of fighting;
         (b)   Builds, makes, maintains, or keeps a pit on premises owned or
occupied by the animal owner, or allows a pit to be built, made, maintained, or
kept on said premises for the purposes of an exhibition of animal fighting;
         (c)   Encourages, instigates, promotes, or assists in an exhibition of
animal fighting or intentional combat; or
         (d)   Charges admission; is an assistant, umpire or participant; or is
present as a spectator to any exhibition of animal fighting or combat.
   (B)   A person who owns or confines any animal and fails to supply it with
adequate shelter, food, water, space, or VETERINARY CARE, as defined in §
91.01, with such acts committed without malicious or punitive intent commits
animal neglect under this section.
   (C)   A person who abandons an animal in a residence or other owned property
or tethers an animal outside for the purposes of abandonment at a residence,
place of business, or the Humane Society of the county commits animal
abandonment under this section.
   (D)   Any animal control officer or other officer empowered to act by law
may impound any animal found to be the victim of animal cruelty, animal
neglect, or animal abandonment.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of commercially sold
poisons for the control of rats, mice, ground hogs, moles, or other similar
rodents, as long as the person using the poisons uses reasonable care to ensure
that no domestic animals are exposed to the poisons.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.52 ANIMAL WASTE.
   The owner of every animal shall be responsible for the removal of any feces
deposited by his or her animal on public property, public walks, public parks,
recreation areas, or private property of others. Owners of service dogs may be
exempted from this section.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.53 ANIMALS IN VEHICLES.
   No animal shall be left unattended in a vehicle when the conditions in that
vehicle would constitute a health hazard to the animal (extreme heat or cold).
Penalty, see §
91.99
CONFINEMENT FEEDING OPERATIONS
§ 91.65 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONFINED FEEDING. The confined feeding of animals for food, fur, or pleasure
purposes in lots, pens, ponds, sheds, or buildings where food is supplied to
the animals only by means other than grazing.
   CONFINED FEEDING OPERATION.
      (1)   Any confined feeding at one time at one location of all 50 or more
cattle, 100 or more swine or sheep, or 5,000 or more fowl;
      (2)   Any animal feeding operation electing to come under this section;
or
      (3)   Any animal feeding operation that is causing a violation of I.C.
13-1-3 or any regulations of the Water Pollution Control Board.
   REQUIRED SEPARATION DISTANCES.
      (1)   The defined feeding operation must be located so as to minimize
odor problems. Any operation employing dry storage of the waste or liquid
storage of the waste in or beneath the building, or in covered concrete pits
must be located so as to provide the following minimum separation distances:
         (a)   Five hundred feet from a highway right-of-way;
         (b)   One thousand five hundred feet from neighboring residence;
         (c)   Two thousand five hundred feet from a public building (church,
school, and the like); and
         (d)   Two thousand five hundred feet from a built-up area of five or
more homes within a linear distance of 2,000 feet.
      (2)   Because of odors, fly, and mosquito problems associated with the
use of open earthen pits or slurry tanks, additional separation distances must
be provided for operations using such facilities, with minimum separation
distances as follows:
         (a)   One thousand feet from a public highway right-of-way;
         (b)   Two thousand five hundred feet from a neighboring residence;
         (c)   Three thousand five hundred feet from a public building; and
         (d)   Three thousand five hundred feet from a built-up area of five or
more homes within a linear distance of 2,000 feet.
      (3)   Odors resulting from spreading the accumulated waste, although of
short duration, can be quite severe; consequently, the application land should
be located so as to provide for at least the minimum separation distances
outlined for operations using earthen open pits.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.66 PERMITTED USE.
   (A)   Confined feeding operations are permitted in Agriculture Use Zones (A-
l), provided that the proposed facility complies with required separation
distance regulations and the State Water Pollution Control Board requirements.
Permitted confined feeding operations require an improvement location permit,
as defined in Article VII, Section 2, of the Town of Windfall, County of Tipton
Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   Non-farm uses of Suburban Residential-Agriculture Use Zones (A-l),
provided that the proposed area complies with the defined setback regulations.
§ 91.67 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all confinement feeding operations to be
erected after the passage of this subchapter and to the expansion of any prior
existing confinement feeding operation after the passage of this subchapter.
§ 91.68 EXCEPTIONS.
   No special exceptions to the requirements of this subchapter may be granted.
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A person in violation of §
91.07 may be fined up to $500 per occurrence.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
91.35 or
91.50 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $2,500. Additionally, upon
the third violation of §§
91.35 or
91.50, the animal shall be seized and impounded. If such ordinance violation
results in the dog causing serious injury to any person, the court may, upon
request and after a hearing, order the animal forfeited and/or destroyed.
   (D)   A person violating §
91.51 may be fined up to $2,500 per occurrence. If the court finds that a
person has violated §
91.51, the court may, in its discretion, order other owned pets seized by law
enforcement with ownership relinquished to the Humane Society of the county,
order the forfeiture of future pet ownership within the town, order counseling,
or order the animal owner to pay restitution. Notwithstanding any judgment
under this division (D), animal cruelty, animal neglect, or animal abandonment
cases may also be prosecuted according to I.C. 35-46-3-12.
   (E)   A person in violation of §
91.52 may be fined up to $500 per occurrence.
   (F)   A person violating §
91.53 may be fined up to $500 per occurrence.
(Ord. 2020-10, passed 10-27-2020)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Park Rules
   
92.01   Hours of admission
   
92.02   Alcohol
   
92.03   Trash
   
92.04   Vending
   
92.05   Weapons, fireworks, and explosives
   
92.06   Unacceptable behavior
   
92.07   Animals
   
92.08   Damage of park property
   
92.09   Expulsion from park property
 
   
92.99   Penalty
PARK RULES
§ 92.01 HOURS OF ADMISSION.
    No person shall enter into or on, or remain in, public park property
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. passed 11-12-1999) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 ALCOHOL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession, or to
consume, any alcoholic beverage while in the public park area.
(Ord. passed 11-12-1999) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, deposit, place, or discard any
trash or refuse anywhere, other than in trash receptacles provided in the
public park area.
(Ord. passed 11-12-1999) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 VENDING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or vendor to sell,
or offer for sale, any merchandise, refreshments, or other items of value on
park property without first obtaining permission from the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 11-12-1999) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 WEAPONS, FIREWORKS, AND EXPLOSIVES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or discharge any weapons,
fireworks, or explosives on public park property.
(Ord. passed 11-12-1999) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 UNACCEPTABLE BEHAVIOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use vulgar or obscene language or
conduct themselves in a loud, rude, annoying, indecent, disruptive, or
otherwise unacceptable manner.
(Ord. passed 11-12-1999) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring, possess, or have any animals
in or on public park property, with the exception of seeing eye dogs.
(Ord. passed 11-12-1999) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 DAMAGE OF PARK PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally
damage or deface park equipment, plants, and vegetation within the public park.
   (B)   The damage or defacement of the items listed in division (A) above
shall apply to any other public park property.
(Ord. passed 11-12-1999) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 EXPULSION FROM PARK PROPERTY.
   Any person violating park rules, creating a public nuisance, exhibiting
potential hazard to others or themselves, or displaying disorderly conduct will
be expelled from the park property.
(Ord. passed 11-12-1999)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to
have committed an ordinance violation and, upon conviction, will be fined $10
for the first offense and $25 for the second and any subsequent offense.
(Ord. passed 11-12-1999)
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Policy statement
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Unlawful practice
   
93.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
93.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
93.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
93.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
93.08   Prevention of intimidation
   
93.09   Equal access to housing in programs
   
93.10   Exemptions
   
93.11   Administrative enforcement
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., as
amended, the federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 3-12-2014)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The State Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-9-
1-4 et seq.
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
93.04 through
93.08, or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed, or intended for occupancy as a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed, or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS.
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under state law.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE, as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 (state
law); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because that
individual is a transvestite (state law).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under 11 U.S.C., receivers, and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 3-12-2014)
§ 93.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
93.09, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1Cite and in §
93.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
93.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to, or any right to all or a portion of
the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family
houses at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house
shall be exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold
or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales, or rental
facilities, or services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesperson, or
any person in the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee
or agent of any such broker, agent, or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting, or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
93.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in
providing sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions
involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended
for occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 3-12-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
93.03 and except as exempted by §§
93.03(B) and
93.09, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status,
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or
discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   The buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with the person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   The person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in the dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with the person.
      (8)   For purposes of this division (A), DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
               c.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (B)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., and of the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility and
usability for physically handicapped people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1)
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (A)(8)(c)3.c above.
   (C)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 3-12-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 3-12-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national
origin.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 3-12-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
93.03 through
93.06.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 3-12-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force, willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin, and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 3-12-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to Federal Register, Volume 77, Number 23, published on February 3,
2012, the definition of FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the
actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of
its members.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 3-12-2014)
§ 93.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions described or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter, to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to
its members, or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
ELDERLY PERSONS (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 3-12-2014)
§ 93.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the Town Council President.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town,
because of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of this chapter by
complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6Cite.
      (2)   The Town Council President shall refer all said complaints to the
Commission as provided for under division (A) above to said Commission for
purposes of investigation, resolution, and appropriate relief as provided for
under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Town Council President and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Town Council President or the Chief Elected Official’s designee
shall provide information on remedies available to any aggrieved person or
complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 3-12-2014)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations, or facilities described in §
93.08(A), or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state, and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results, shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 3-12-2014)
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Burning
   
94.01   Permitted burning
   
94.02   Method of burning
   
94.03   Conditions of burning
   
94.04   Special burning
   
94.05   Recreational burning
   
94.06   Charges from Fire Department
 
   
94.99   Penalty
BURNING
§ 94.01 PERMITTED BURNING.
   The following shall be permitted to be burned within the town:
   (A)   Only wood and paper products (no treated or painted lumber); and
   (B)   Leaves and branches.
(Ord. 99-01, passed 5-17-1999) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 METHOD OF BURNING.
   Open burning must take place in a non-combustible container and must have
enclosed sides, bottom, and a mesh covering with openings no larger than one-
fourth inch square.
(Ord. 99-01, passed 5-17-1999) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 CONDITIONS OF BURNING.
   (A)   No burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorological
conditions such as temperature inversions, high winds, or air stagnation.
   (B)   All fires must be attended at all times until completely extinguished.
   (C)   If the fire creates a nuisance, or a fire hazard, it shall be
extinguished.
   (D)   All burning must take place during daylight hours. Fires shall be
replenished in such manner that the material will be consumed by sunset.
(Ord. 99-01, passed 5-17-1999) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SPECIAL BURNING.
   Special burning may be permitted by contacting the Town Council or the
Wildcat Volunteer Fire Chief.
(Ord. 99-01, passed 5-17-1999)
§ 94.05 RECREATIONAL BURNING.
   RECREATIONAL BURNING shall be defined as a small campfire, bordered with
non-combustible material such as brick, stone, metal, or other non-combustible
material. The campfire area shall be no larger than three-feet by three-feet.
The fire must be attended at all times until completely extinguished.
(Ord. 99-01, passed 5-17-1999) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 CHARGES FROM FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The property owner is responsible for all charges from the Fire Department
for responding to a fire where the person has violated this chapter.
(Ord. 99-01, passed 5-17-1999)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any persons violating any part or parts of this chapter will be subject to
the following fines:
   (A)   First offense, $15; and
   (B)   Second or more, $50.
(Ord. 99-01, passed 5-17-1999)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   RECREATIONAL ESTABLISHMENTS
      
114.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Business Permits
   
110.01   Permit or certificate of occupancy required
   
110.02   Hearing required
   
110.03   Application
   
110.04   Variance
   
110.05   Revocation of permit or certificate
BUSINESS PERMITS
§ 110.01 PERMIT OR CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED.
   Any person desiring to open a new business on any lot or parcel of land
within the corporate limits of the town shall first obtain a permit or
certificate of occupancy from the Town Council.
(Ord. 01-04, passed 1-8-2002)
§ 110.02 HEARING REQUIRED.
   No permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued unless and until a
public hearing has been held, and a recommendation and approval for such
issuance has been granted by the Town Council.
(Ord. 01-04, passed 1-8-2002)
§ 110.03 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for a permit or certificate of occupancy shall be made to
the Town Council by the owner of the new business. The application shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   Owner of the new business;
      (2)   Drawing of land drawn to scale, showing proposed location of new
business;
      (3)   Description of new business;
      (4)   Availability of water and sanitary facilities; and
      (5)   Adjacent roadways or alleys.
   (B)   Each application shall be accompanied by a fee of $50 for such permit
or certificate of occupancy, if granted, and a deposit to cover the cost of
legal advertising and related expenses.
   (C)   (1)   Upon receipt of such application, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall
advertise that a public hearing will be held, and this matter considered, at
the next regular meeting of the Town Council.
      (2)   Upon approval by such Council, the Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a
permit or certificate of occupancy to the applicant.
   (D)   In order to be considered at a regularly-scheduled Town Council
meeting, an application must be received in the office of the Clerk/Treasurer
no later than 14 working days prior to the date of the scheduled meeting at
which the applicant wishes to have the application reviewed.
(Ord. 01-04, passed 1-8-2002)
§ 110.04 VARIANCE.
   In the event that a business has been opened in such a manner as to be at
variance with the terms of the permit or certificate of occupancy, or
violations or ordinances exist upon such premises, the Town Marshal shall give
notice to the holder of the permit or certificate of occupancy that such
irregularities exist and must be corrected.
(Ord. 01-04, passed 1-8-2002)
§ 110.05 REVOCATION OF PERMIT OR CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Failure to correct such variance or other irregularities within ten
days after the receipt of such notice, as provided in §
110.04, shall be grounds for the revocation of such permit or certificate of
occupancy by the Town Council, and such revocation shall be made.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Revocation of a permit or certificate of occupancy may be
appealed, and upon the receipt of the proper deposit, as by the current fee
ordinance, the Clerk/Treasurer shall advertise that a public hearing will be
held.
         (b)   The matter covered in division (B)(1)(a) above shall be
considered by the Town Council at its next regular meeting.
      (2)   The findings of the Council shall be final, but subject to judicial
review.
(Ord. 01-04, passed 1-8-2002)
CHAPTER 111: TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, PEDDLERS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Prior invitation required
   
111.03   Hours of operation
   
111.04   No-solicitation signs
   
111.05   License required
   
111.06   Application and issuances of license
   
111.07   Fee
   
111.08   Term of license
   
111.09   Display of license
   
111.10   Group licenses prohibited
   
111.11   Revocation
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person who shall sell or offer for sale, barter, or exchange at
retail books, pictures, photographs, goods, wares, merchandise, magazines, oil,
wood, fruits, vegetables, butter, poultry, fish, or country produce, traveling
from place to place on, along, or upon the streets or alleys of the town, or at
the doors of houses or apartments, or who shall sell or deliver such articles
from any vehicles going from place to place, or who shall go about in the town
selling and delivering such articles or offering the same for sale and carrying
the articles offered with him or her.
   SALESPERSON.
      (1)   Any person who demonstrates any automobile, article, merchandise,
mechanical device, or other article or thing, or who offers for sale any
insurance, stocks, bonds, or other tangible or intangible item without having a
definite appointment for that purpose with the customer previously to the time
of going, either by telephone, letter, or at the request of the customer.
      (2)   This definition is not intended to include a WHOLESALE SALESPERSON.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who goes about the town offering for sale or taking
orders for any books, magazines, photographs, pictures, goods, wares, or
mechanical devices, furniture, hardware, or any other article or thing
whatsoever.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 111.02 PRIOR INVITATION REQUIRED.
   The practice of going in and upon private residences in the town by
solicitors, salespeople, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants, and transient
vendors of merchandise, not having been requested or invited so to do by the
owner or occupant of the private residence, for the purpose of soliciting
orders for the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise, or for the purpose of
disposing of, or peddling, or hawking the same, is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and an offense.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 111.03 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No person shall operate as a salesperson, peddler, or solicitor between 9:00
p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
(Ord. passed - -2012) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 NO-SOLICITATION SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be illegal for any salesperson, peddler, or solicitor to
enter upon the premises of any property where a sign “No Solicitors” is
displayed.
   (B)   Such sign must be plainly visible from the point of entry onto the
premises.
(Ord. passed - -2012) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate as a salesperson, peddler, or solicitor without a
license issued by the town.
(Ord. passed - -2012) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every person desiring the license required by this chapter shall make
application in writing therefor to the Clerk/Treasurer, and state full name,
residence, age, type of work the applicant expects to engage in, for whom the
applicant is selling, and a personal reference.
   (B)   The applicant shall deposit a license fee as required for the
particular form of license issued. Before the license shall be issued, the
applicant must go to the Clerk/Treasurer of the town, giving the same
information to the department, together with a current photograph
identification, to be furnished by the applicant. Upon satisfactory evidence
being submitted to the Town Marshal that the applicant has no outstanding
warrants, and upon the payment of the required fee, there shall be issued to
the applicant a license in the form to be approved by the Clerk/Treasurer and
the Town Marshal, which form shall bear the signatures of these officers and a
photograph of the person to whom the license is issued.
   (C)   The appropriate law enforcement agent may make such investigations of
each applicant as he or she may deem proper, and no license shall be issued
until such investigation is completed.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 111.07 FEE.
   The fee to be paid to the town for the license required by this chapter
shall be the sum of $25 per day for each day the applicant intends to operate.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 111.08 TERM OF LICENSE.
   A license issued, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, shall be valid
for the length of time stated on the license.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 111.09 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every holder of a license issued, pursuant to this chapter, shall exhibit
the same at the request of any police officer or any citizen of the town, and
shall immediately, upon making contact with a prospect in the town, exhibit
such license and properly identify him- or herself.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 111.10 GROUP LICENSES PROHIBITED.
   An individual license shall be issued for each person; each applicant must
appear in person under his or her own signature.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 111.11 REVOCATION.
   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by the
Town Council, after notice and hearing, for any of the following reasons and
causes:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements contained in the
application for the license;
   (B)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or sale statements made in the course of
carrying on his or her business as a peddler, solicitor, or salesperson;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter; or
   (D)   Conducting the business of peddling, soliciting, or selling in an
unlawful manner as to constitute breach of the peace or to constitute a menace
to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
111.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in an amount not
less than $25 nor more than $100, in addition to having his or her license
revoked.
(Ord. passed - -2012)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
112.01   Issuance of liquor retailer’s permits allowed
§ 112.01 ISSUANCE OF LIQUOR RETAILER’S PERMITS ALLOWED.
   Pursuant to I.C. 7.1-3-9-3, the town consents to the issuance of liquor
retailer’s permits for the sale of spiritous beverages to applicants otherwise
qualified under the rules and regulations of the State Alcohol and Tobacco
Commission.
(Ord. 2019-3, passed 8-13-2019)
CHAPTER 113: RECREATIONAL ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
113.01   License required
   
113.02   Application and issuance of license
   
113.03   Term of license
   
113.04   Revocation
 
   
113.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Limits on licensing power, see I.C. 36-1-3-8
§ 113.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate or maintain any table, alley, machine, device,
place, or establishment for sports or games for hire or pay, whether managed by
the owner or the agents or the owner, without first obtaining a license to do
so from the Council.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-3-8) (Ord. 64, passed 7-2-1883; Ord. 114, passed 1-16-1893;
Ord. 207, passed 5-4-1964) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.02 APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every applicant for a license under this section shall furnish the
Clerk/Treasurer with:
      (1)   The name and address of the operator and manager of the equipment
or premises to be licensed;
      (2)   The name and address of the owner of the equipment or premises to
be licensed; and
      (3)   A licensing fee equal to $15 for one table, alley, machine, device,
or game for hire or pay and $10 for each additional table, alley, machine,
device, or game for hire or pay.
   (B)   (1)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall not issue any license under this
section until the applicant has complied with division (A) above and the
application has been approved by the Council.
      (2)   The Council may issue a license subject to the compliance of the
license holder with such restrictions on the hours and manner of operation as
the Council deems proper.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-3-8) (Ord. 64, passed 7-2-1883; Ord. 114, passed 1-16-1893;
Ord. 115, passed 1-16-1893; Ord. 207, passed 5-3-1961; Ord. 207, passed 5-4-
1964)
§ 113.03 TERM OF LICENSE.
   Every license issued under this section shall expire one year from the date
it is issued by the Clerk/Treasurer unless revoked by the Council prior to that
date.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-3-8) (Ord. 114, passed 1-16-1893; Ord. 207, passed 5-3-
1961; Ord. 207, passed 5-4-1964)
§ 113.04 REVOCATION.
   Any license issued under this chapter may be revoked by the Council if that
body determines that the license holder has violated any provision of town law
or has knowingly permitted any person on the licensed premises to do so. No
license issued under this chapter shall be revoked until the license holder has
been granted a public hearing by the Council. The license holder shall receive
written notice of the alleged violations and of the time and place of the
hearing at least seven days before the hearing takes place.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-3-8)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty
of an ordinance violation and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than
$25 nor more than $100 for each offense, in addition to court costs. Each day a
violation continues constitutes a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-3-8) (Ord. 64, passed 7-2-1883; Ord. 114, passed 1-16-1893;
Ord. 115, passed 1-16-1893; Ord. 207, passed 5-3-1961; Ord. 207, passed 5-4-
1964)
CHAPTER 114: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Purpose
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Inspection
   
114.04   Regulations pertaining to exhibiting sexually explicit films or videos
   
114.05   Prohibition of minors
   
114.06   Advertising and lighting regulations
   
114.07   Hours of operation
   
114.08   Nudity prohibited
   
114.09   Regulations pertaining to live entertainment
   
114.10   Exemptions
   
114.11   Prohibition of distribution of sexual devices
Permits
   
114.25   Permit required; application
   
114.26   Investigation of application
   
114.27   Issuance of permit
   
114.28   Annual permit fee
   
114.29   Expiration; term of permit
   
114.30   Suspension
   
114.31   Revocation
   
114.32   Appeals; judicial review
   
114.33   Transfer of permit
Licensing
   
114.45   Employee license required
   
114.46   Application
   
114.47   Investigation of application
   
114.48   Renewal of license
 
   
114.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented
businesses to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the
citizens of the town, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent deleterious effects of sexually oriented businesses within the town.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials.
   (C)   Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to:
      (1)   Restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials
protected by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or the State
Constitution; or
      (2)   To deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually
oriented entertainment to their intended market.
   (D)   Neither is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to in any way
condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene material or material harmful
to minors.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who works or performs in and/or for a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage, or
other compensation by the operator of said business.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any such business as a new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, regardless of whether it
currently exists as a sexually oriented business, to any of the SEXUALLY
ORIENTED BUSINESSES defined in this section;
      (3)   The addition of any of the SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES defined in
this section to any other existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any such sexually oriented business.
   NUDITY OR STATE OF NUDITY.
      (1)   The appearance of human bare buttock, anus, male or female
genitals, or the areola or nipple of the female breast; or
      (2)   A state of dress which fails to opaquely and fully cover a human
buttocks, anus, male or female genitals, pubic region, or areola or nipple of
the female breast.
   OPERATOR. The owner, permit holder, custodian, manager, operator, or person
in charge of any permitted or licensed premises.
   PERMITTED OR LICENSED PREMISES. Any premises that requires a license and/or
permit, and that is classified as a sexually oriented business.
   PERMITTEE AND/OR LICENSEE. A person in whose name a permit and/or license to
operate a sexually oriented business has been issued, as well as the individual
listed as an applicant on the application for a permit and/or license.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. Any building owned, leased, or held by the United States,
the state, the county, the town, and any special district, school district, or
any other agency or political subdivision of the state or the United States,
which building is used for governmental purposes.
   PUBLIC PARK OR RECREATION AREA. Public land which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, open space, wilderness areas, or
similar public land within the town which is under the control, operation, or
management of the county parks and recreation authorities.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple, or building
which is used primarily for religious worship and related religious activities.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT OR USE. A single family, duplex, townhouse, multiple
families, or mobile home park or subdivision, as defined in the town ordinance.
   SCHOOL. Any public or private educational facility including, but not
limited to, child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools,
kindergartens, elementary schools, primary schools, intermediate schools,
junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, vocational schools,
secondary schools, continuation schools, special education schools, junior
colleges, colleges, and universities. The term SCHOOL includes the school
grounds, but does not include facilities used primarily for another purpose and
only incidentally as a SCHOOL.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, and areola of the female breast, as well as portions of
the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES. Those businesses defined as follows.
      (1)   ADULT ARCADE. An establishment where, for any form of
consideration, one or more still or motion picture projectors, slide
projectors, or similar machines, or other image producing machines, for viewing
by five or fewer persons each, are regularly used to show films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A
commercial establishment which has a significant or substantial portion of its
stock-in-trade, or derives a significant or substantial portion of its
revenues, or devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior
business or advertising to the sale or rental, for any form of consideration,
of any one or more of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other visual
representations which are characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas;
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others; and
         (c)   1.   An establishment may have other principal business purposes
that do not involve the offering for sale, rental, or viewing of materials
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, and still be categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or
ADULT VIDEO STORE.
            2.   Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
establishments from being categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY
STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as one of its principal business purposes
is offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, the specified
materials which depict or describe specified anatomical areas or specified
sexual activities.
      (3)   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, bottle club, or
similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, which regularly features:
         (a)   Persons who appear nude or in a state of nudity or semi-nude;
         (b)   Live performances which are characterized by an emphasis on the
exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (4)   ADULT MOTEL. A motel, hotel, or similar commercial establishment
which:
         (a)   Offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration,
which provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions
which are characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, and which advertises
the availability of this sexually oriented type of material by means of a sign
visible from the public right-of-way, or by means of any off-premises
advertising including, but not limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or
leaflets, radio, or television;
         (b)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time less than
ten hours; or
         (c)   Allows a tenant or occupant to sub-rent the sleeping room for a
time period of less than ten hours.
      (5)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions which are characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are
regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      (6)   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly
features a person who appears in a state of nudity, or live performances which
are characterized by exposure of specified sexual activities.
      (7)   ESCORT. A person who, for any form of consideration, agrees or
offers to act as a companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees
or offers to privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for
another person.
      (8)   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes,
offers to furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary
business purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
      (9)   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any place where, for any form of consideration or
gratuity, massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or
magnetic treatments, or any other treatment or manipulation of the human body
which occurs as a part of or in connection with specified sexual activities, or
where any person providing such treatment, manipulation, or service related
thereto, exposes his or her specified anatomical areas. The definition of
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES shall not include the practice of massage in or by
any licensed hospital; nor by a licensed physician, surgeon, chiropractor, or
osteopath; nor by any nurse or technician working under the supervision of a
licensed physician, surgeon, chiropractor, or osteopath; nor by trainers for
any amateur, semi-professional, or professional athlete or athletic team, or
school athletic program.
      (10)   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who regularly appears
in a state of nudity or displays specified anatomical areas for money or any
form of consideration is to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured,
photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons.
      (11)   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT.
         (a)   A business or commercial establishment that, as one of its
primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration a place where
two or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort for the purpose of
engaging in specified sexual activities or the exposure of specified anatomical
areas, or activities when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or
semi-nudity.
         (b)   The definition of SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES shall not include
an establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist, psychiatrist, or
similar professional person licensed by the state engages in medically approved
and recognized sexual therapy.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
      (4)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal, or
tumescence; or
      (5)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (4) above.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An increase in the
floor areas occupied by the business by more than 15%, as the floor areas exist
on the date this chapter takes effect.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any of the
following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal devises
which transfers ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of a person possessing the
ownership or control.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -)
§ 114.03 INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant or permittee shall permit representatives of the Town
Council to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business for the purpose
of ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open for
business.
   (B)   A person who refuses to permit any such inspection of the premises at
any time that it is occupied or open for business.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITING SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR
VIDEOS.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business,
other than a sexually oriented business, other than a sexually oriented motel/
hotel, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued to said business
under this chapter, which exhibits on the premises in a viewing room of less
than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video cassette, or other video
reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, shall comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business permit,
the application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a
plan thereof specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations, the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures, and designating any portion of the
premises wherein patrons will not be permitted.
         (b)   A manager’s station may not exceed 32 square feet of floor area
with no dimension greater than eight feet. The diagram shall also designate the
place where this permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted.
      (2)   A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or
architect’s blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object, and should be
drawn to a designated scale with marked dimensions sufficient to show the
various internal dimension of all areas of the interior of the premises to an
accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
      (3)   The Building Department or its designee may waive the foregoing
diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was
previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has
not been altered since it was prepared.
   (B)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
   (C)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s station
may be made without the prior approval of the Building Department or its
designee.
   (D)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated at each manager’s station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
   (E)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of the
premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises have two or more manager’s station designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patrol is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations. The view required in
this division (E) must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s station.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operators, and it shall also be
the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises to ensure that the
view area specified in division (E) above remains unobstructed by any doors,
walls, merchandise, display racks, or other materials, or persons at all times,
and to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises
which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in
the application filed pursuant to this section.
   (G)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any one
time. No holes, commonly known as glory holes, shall be allowed in the walls or
partitions which separate each viewing room or restroom.
   (H)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access and an illumination of not less than two foot candles as measured at the
floor level.
   (I)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also be
the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises, to ensure that
the illumination described in division (H) above is maintained at all times
that any patron is present on the premises.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 PROHIBITION OF MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for a person who operates or causes to be operated a
sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been
issued for said business under this chapter, to knowingly or with reasonable
cause know, permit, suffer, or allow:
   (A)   Admittance of a person under 18 years of age to the business premises;
   (B)   A person who is under 18 years of age to work at the business premises
as an employee; and
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the operator of each sexually oriented
business to ensure that an attendant is stationed at each public entrance at
all times during such sexually oriented businesses’ regular business hours. It
shall be the duty of the attendant to prohibit any person under the age of 18
years from entering the establishment. It shall be presumed that an attendant
knew a person was under the age of 18 unless the attendant asked for and was
furnished:
      (1)   A valid operator’s, commercial operator’s, or chauffeur’s license;
or
      (2)   A valid personal identification certificate issued by the state
reflecting that such person is 18 years of age or older.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 ADVERTISING AND LIGHTING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said
business under this chapter, to advertise the presentation of any activity
prohibited by any applicable state statute or local ordinance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said
business under this chapter, to display or otherwise exhibit the materials and/
or performances at such sexually oriented business in any advertising or any
portion of the interior premises which is visible outside the premises. This
prohibition shall not extend to advertising of the existence or location of
such sexually oriented business.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said
business under this chapter, to allow the exterior portion of the sexually
oriented business to have flashing lights, or any words, lettering,
photographs, silhouettes, drawings, or pictorial representations of any manner
except to the extent permitted by the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said
business under this chapter, to erect, construct, or maintain any sign for the
sexually oriented business other than as permitted by this chapter and as
follows:
      (1)   Signage shall contain no photographs, silhouettes, drawings, or
pictorial representations in any manner, and may contain only the legal name of
the enterprise; and
      (2)   Each letter forming a word on a primary sign shall be of solid
color, and each such letter shall be the same print-type, size, and color. The
background behind such lettering on the display surface of a primary sign shall
be of a uniform and solid color.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said
business under this chapter, to allow the exterior portions of the
establishment to be painted any color other than a single achromatic color.
This provision shall not apply to a sexually oriented business if the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   The establishment is a part of a commercial multi-unit center; and
      (2)   The exterior portions of each individual unit in the commercial
multi-unit center, including the exterior portions of the business, are painted
the same color as one another or are painted in such a pattern of the
commercial multi-unit center.
   (F)   (1)   All off-street parking areas and premises entries of the
sexually oriented business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of
operation with a lighting system which provides an average maintained
horizontal illumination of one foot candle of light on the parking surface and/
or walkways.
      (2)   This required lighting level is established in order to provide
sufficient illumination of the parking areas and walkways serving the sexually
oriented business for the personal safety of patrons and employees, and to
reduce the incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct.
      (3)   The lighting shall be shown on the required sketch or diagram of
the premises.
   (G)   Nothing contained in this section shall relieve the operator(s) of a
sexually oriented business from complying with the requirements of this chapter
or any subsequently enacted town ordinances or regulations.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.07 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated
a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been
issued for said business under this chapter, and allow such business to remain
open for business, or to permit any employee to engage in a performance,
solicit a performance, make a sale, solicit a sale, provide a service, or
solicit a service, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. of any
particular day.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person while working as an employee of a
sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been
issued for said business under this chapter, to engage in a performance,
solicit a performance, make a sale, solicit a sale, provide a service, or
solicit service between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. of any
particular day.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.08 NUDITY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall allow public nudity in any sexually oriented business.
   (B)   Any sexually oriented business which is found in violation of this
section shall have its permit suspended pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -)
§ 114.09 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO LIVE ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, LIVE ENTERTAINMENT is defined as a
person who appears semi-nude, or a performance which is characterized by the
exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall perform live entertainment for patron(s) of a
sexually oriented business establishment except upon a stage at least 18 inches
above the level of the floor which is separated by a distance of at least ten
feet from the nearest area occupied by patron(s). No patron shall be permitted
within ten feet of the stage while the stage is occupied by a performer.
      (2)   Compliance with this division (B) must occur within 60 days from
the date this chapter becomes effective.
   (C)   (1)   The sexually oriented business establishment shall provide
separate dressing room facilities for female and male performers that shall not
be occupied or used in any way by anyone other than performers.
      (2)   Compliance with this division (C) must occur within 90 days from
the date this chapter becomes effective.
   (D)   (1)   The sexually oriented business establishment shall provide
access for performers between the stage and the dressing room which is
completely separated from the patrons. If such separate access is not
physically feasible, the establishment shall provide a minimum four-foot wide
walk aisle for performers between the dressing room and the stage, with a
railing, fence, or barrier separating the patrons and the performers which
prevents any physical contact between patrons and performers.
      (2)   Compliance with this division (D) must occur within 90 days from
the date this chapter becomes effective.
   (E)   (1)   No entertainer, either before, during, or after a performance,
shall have physical contact with any patron, and no patron shall have physical
contact with any entertainer either before, during, or after a performance.
This division (E) shall only apply to physical contact while in or on the
premises of the establishment.
      (2)   Compliance with this division (E) must occur upon the date this
chapter becomes effective.
   (F)   (1)   Fixed rails at least 30 inches in height shall be maintained
establishing the separations between performers and patrons required by this
section.
      (2)   Compliance with this division (F) must occur within 60 days from
the date this chapter becomes effective.
   (G)   (1)   No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to a
performer. He or she shall place the gratuity in a container that is at all
times located separately from the performers for the purpose of preventing any
physical contact between a patron and a performer. No performer shall solicit
any gratuity from any patron.
      (2)   Compliance with this division (G) must occur upon the date this
chapter becomes effective.
   (H)   (1)   No operator of a sexually oriented business establishment shall
cause or allow a performer to engage in any entertainment such as a couch or
straddle dance with a patron while in or on the establishment premises. No
performer shall contract to or engage in a couch or straddle dance with a
patron while in or on the establishment premises. For purposes of this division
(H), COUCH or STRADDLE DANCE is defined as an employee of the establishment
intentionally touching or coming within ten feet of any patron while engaged in
the display or exposure of any specified anatomical area, or any specified
sexual activity. For purposes of this division (H), EMPLOYEE is defined as it
is in this chapter.
      (2)   Compliance with this division (H) must occur upon the date this
chapter becomes effective.
   (I)   Division (B) above, shall not apply to an employee of an establishment
who, while acting as a waiter, waitress, host, hostess, or bartender, comes
within ten feet of a patron. No employee shall engage in any specified sexual
activity or display or expose any specified anatomical area while acting as a
waiter, waitress, host, hostess, or bartender.
   (J)   (1)   For the purposes of this section, ESTABLISHMENT is defined as it
is in §
114.02. No establishment shall be in compliance with this section until the
town’s designated agent(s) have inspected and approved of the establishment’s
compliance. The town shall have ten days from the date it receives written
notice from the operator that the establishment is ready for inspection to
approve or disapprove of compliance required by this section. Failure to
approve or disapprove of compliance within ten days shall constitute a finding
of compliance under this section.
      (2)   The operator of an establishment, that has been providing live
entertainment under a valid sexually oriented business permit, shall have the
time periods listed in this section in which to bring the establishment into
compliance with this section. Failure to do so while continuing to provide live
entertainment shall cause the establishment’s permit to be suspended under this
chapter. The permit shall remain suspended until the establishment is approved
by the town’s designated agent(s) as being in full compliance with this
section.
      (3)   The operator of an establishment, that has been operating under a
valid permit for another classification of sexually oriented business, and who
wishes to provide live entertainment at that establishment, shall apply for and
receive a sexually oriented business permit for the operation of an
establishment providing live entertainment before any live entertainment is
provided at that establishment. No live entertainment permit shall be issued
until the establishment is approved as being in full compliance with this
section and all other applicable requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   The applicant for a permit to operate a new establishment, who
wishes to provide live entertainment, shall apply for and receive a sexually
oriented business permit for the operation of an establishment providing live
entertainment before any live entertainment is provided. No live entertainment
permit shall be issued until the establishment is approved as being in full
compliance with this section and all other applicable requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It is a defense to the prosecution for any violation of this chapter
that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class
operated:
      (1)   By a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class; and
         (c)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
   (B)   It is a defense to the prosecution for a violation of this chapter
that an employee of a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not
it is permitted under this chapter, exposed any specified anatomical area
during the employee’s bona fide use of a restroom, or during the employee’s
bona fide use of a dressing room which is accessible only to employees.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -)
§ 114.11 PROHIBITION OF DISTRIBUTION OF SEXUAL DEVICES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for anyone to distribute for commercial purposes, sell,
or offer for sale any device, instrument, or paraphernalia designed or marketed
primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for sadomasochistic use or
abuse of themselves or others.
   (B)   Such devices, instruments, or paraphernalia shall include, but are not
limited to, phallic shaped vibrators, dildos, muzzles, whips, chains, leather
restraints, racks, non-medical enema kits, body piercing implements (excluding
earrings or other decorative jewelry), or other tools of sadomasochistic abuse.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -) Penalty, see §
114.99
PERMITS
§ 114.25 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, maintain, operate, or cause to be conducted,
maintained, or operated, any sexually oriented business within the
unincorporated areas of the town without first being licensed under this
subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Council or its designee is responsible for granting,
denying, revoking, renewing, suspending, and canceling sexually oriented
business permits for proposed or existing sexually oriented businesses.
      (2)   The town is also responsible for ascertaining whether a proposed
sexually oriented business for which a permit is being applied complies with
all applicable zoning laws and/or regulations now in effect or as amended or
enacted.
   (C)   The Town Marshal shall be responsible for providing information on
whether an applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal act during the
time period set forth.
   (D)   The Zoning Board shall be responsible for inspecting a proposed,
permitted, or non-permitted sexually oriented business in order to ascertain
whether it is in compliance with applicable statutes and ordinances.
   (E)   (1)   An application for a permit must be made on a form provided by
the Town Council.
      (2)   Any person desiring to operate a sexually oriented business shall
file with the Town Council an original and two copies of a sworn permit
application on the standard application form supplied by the Town Council or
its designee.
   (F)   The completed application shall contain the following information and
shall be a accompanied by the following documents:
(1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and any aliases, and submit satisfactory proof that he or she is 18 years of
age;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name,
and the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited,
and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any; or
         (c)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of the state, the names and capacity of all officers,
directors, and principal stockholders, and the name of the registered corporate
agent, and the address of the registered office for service of process.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, he or she must:
         (a)   State the sexually oriented business’ fictitious name; and
         (b)   Submit the required state registration documents.
      (3)   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed in the
application has, within the two- or five-year period preceding the date of the
application, been convicted of a specified criminal act, and, if so, the
specified criminal act involved, and the date and place of conviction.
      (4)   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed in the
application has had a previous permit under this chapter, or other similar
sexually oriented business ordinances from another town or county denied,
suspended, or revoked, including the name and location of the sexually oriented
business for which the permit was denied, suspended, or revoked, as well as the
date of the denial, suspension, or revocation, and whether the applicant or any
other individuals listed in the application has been a partner in a partnership
or an officer, director, or principal stockholder of a corporation that is
permitted under this chapter whose permit has previously been denied,
suspended, or revoked, including the name and location of the sexually oriented
business for which the permit was denied, suspended, or revoked as well as the
date of denial, suspension, or revocation.
      (5)   Whether the applicant or any other individual listed in the
application holds any other permits and/or licenses under this chapter, or
other similar sexually oriented business ordinance from another town, county,
or state and, if so, the names.
      (6)   The single classification of permit for which the applicant is
filing.
      (7)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address, and telephone number(s),
if any.
      (8)   (a)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the
premises, including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business.
         (b)   The sketch or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but
it must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the
interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
      (9)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to the application by a state registered land surveyor depicting the
property lines and the structures containing any established existing uses
regulated by this chapter within 1,000 feet of the property to be certified;
the property lines of any established religious institution/synagogue, school,
or public park, or recreation area, or government buildings within 1,000 feet
of the property to be certified; and the property lines of any residentially
zoned area or residential property within 1,000 feet of the property to be
certified. For purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or
established if it is in existence at the time an application is submitted.
      (10)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
an individual, he or she must sign the application for a permit as an
applicant. If a person wishes to operate a sexually oriented business
collectively with a group of individuals, each individual who has a 10% or
greater interest in the business must sign the application for a permit as
applicant. If a corporation is listed as the owner of a sexually oriented
business or as the entity that wishes to operate such a business, each
individual having a 10% or greater interest in the corporation must sign the
application for a permit as an applicant.
      (11)   If a person wishes to operate a sexually oriented business which
shall exhibit on the premises films, video cassettes, or other video
reproductions which depict specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, then said person shall comply with the application requirements stated
herein.
   (G)   Applicants for a permit under this section shall have a continuing
duty to promptly supplement the application information required by this
section in the event that said information changes in any way from what is
stated on the application. The failure to comply with said continuing duty
within 30 days from the date of such change shall be grounds for suspension of
a permit.
   (H)   In the event that the Town Council or its designee determines or
learns at any time that the applicant has improperly completed the application
for a proposed sexually oriented business, he or she shall promptly notify the
applicant of such fact and allow the applicant ten days to properly complete
the application. (The time period for granting or denying a permit shall be
stayed during the period in which the applicant is allowed an opportunity to
properly complete the application.)
   (I)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter, and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
health, fire, and building codes and laws.
   (J)   The applicant shall be required to pay a non-refundable application
fee of $1,000 at the time of filing an application under this section to the
Town Council.
   (K)   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or town permits
and/or licenses does not exempt him or her from the requirement of obtaining a
sexually oriented business permit.
   (L)   By applying for a permit under this chapter, the applicant shall be
deemed to have consented to the provisions of this chapter and to the exercise
by the Town Marshal and all other county agencies charged with enforcing the
laws, ordinances, and codes applicable in the county of their respective
responsibilities under this chapter.
   (M)   The applicant shall be required to provide the town with the names of
any and all employees who are required to be licensed pursuant to §
114.45. This shall be a continuing requirement even after a permit is granted
or renewed.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -)
§ 114.26 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application properly filed with the town and, upon
payment of the non-refundable application fee, the Town Council shall
immediately stamp the application as received and shall immediately thereafter
send photocopies of the application to the County Sheriff’s Department and any
other county agencies responsible for enforcement of health, fire, and building
codes and laws. Each department and the proposed sexually oriented business, in
accordance with its responsibilities under law and as set forth in this
chapter. Said investigation shall be completed within 20 days of receipt of the
application by the Clerk/Treasurer. At the conclusion of its investigation,
each department or agency shall indicate on the photocopy of the application
its approval or disapproval of the application, date it, sign it, and, in the
event it disapproves, state the reasons. The County Sheriff’s Department shall
only be required to certify the NCIC records request check. The County
Sheriff’s Department shall not be required to approve or disapprove
applications.
   (B)   A department or agency shall disapprove an application if it finds
that the proposed sexually oriented business will be in violation of any
provision of any statute, code, ordinance, regulation, or other law in effect
in the town. After its indication of approval or disapproval, each department
or agency shall immediately return the photocopy of the application to the Town
Council for consideration.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -)
§ 114.27 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   General. The Town Council or its designee shall grant or deny an
application for a permit within 30 days from the date of its proper filing.
Upon the expiration of the thirtieth day, unless the applicant requests and is
granted a reasonable extension of time, the applicant shall be permitted to
begin operating the business for which the permit is sought, unless and until
the Town Council, or its designee, notifies the applicant of a denial of the
application and states the reason(s) for that denial.
   (B)   Grant of application for permit.
      (1)   The Town Council or its designee shall grant the application unless
one or more of the criteria set forth in division (C) below is present.
      (2)   The permit, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address
of the sexually oriented business. The permit shall also indicate that the
sexually oriented business shall be subject to prohibitions against public
nudity and indecency, pursuant to the State Penal Code. The permit shall be
posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented
business so that it can be read easily at any time.
   (C)   Denial of application for permit.
      (1)   The Town Council or its designee shall deny the application for any
of the following reasons:
         (a)   An applicant is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse is overdue on his or her
payment to the county of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against him
or her, or imposed upon him or her in relation to a sexually oriented business.
         (c)   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a
permit by the Town Council to operate a sexually oriented business within the
preceding 12 months, or residing with a person whose permit to operate a
sexually oriented business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months.
         (d)   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
subchapter or permits an application for the issuance of the permit, or has
falsely answered a question or request for information on the application form.
         (e)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have
not been approved as being in compliance with health, fire, and building codes
by the department or agency responsible under law for investigating said
compliance.
         (f)   The application or permit fees required by this subchapter have
not been paid.
         (g)   An applicant of the proposed business is in violation of, or is
not in compliance with, any of the provisions of this chapter or the County
Zoning Ordinance.
         (h)   The granting of the application would violate a statute,
ordinance, or court order.
         (i)   The applicant has a permit under this chapter that has been
suspended or revoked.
         (j)   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal act for
which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is of a misdemeanor offense for the specified criminal acts which
are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape, or crimes connected
with another sexually oriented business including, but not limited to,
distribution of obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution,
pandering, or tax violations.
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is of a felony offense for the specified criminal acts which are
sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape, or crimes connected with
another sexually oriented business including, but not limited to, distribution
of obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution, pandering, or tax
violations.
            3.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
convictions are for two or more misdemeanor offenses for specified criminal
acts which are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape, or crimes
connected with another sexually oriented business including, but not limited
to, distribution of obscenity or materials harmful to minors, prostitution,
pandering, or tax violations, or offenses occurring within any 24-month period.
            4.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the disqualification of the applicant.
            5.   An applicant who has been convicted of the above described
specified criminal acts may qualify for a sexually oriented business permit
only when the time period required above has elapsed.
         (k)   An applicant knowingly has in his or her employ an employee who
does not have a valid license as required of this chapter.
      (2)   If the Town Council or its designee denies the application, he or
she shall notify the applicant of the denial and state the reason(s) for the
denial.
      (3)   If a person applies for a permit for a particular location within a
period of 12 months from the date of denial of a previous application for a
permit at the location, and there has not been an intervening change in the
circumstances which could reasonably be expected to lead to a different
decision regarding the former reasons for denial, the application shall be
denied.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -)
§ 114.28 ANNUAL PERMIT FEE.
   The annual fee for a sexually oriented business permit is $500.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -)
§ 114.29 EXPIRATION; TERM OF PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   Each permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance and
may be renewed only by making application as provided in this subchapter (for
renewals, filing of the original survey shall be sufficient).
      (2)   An application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before
the expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the expiration
date, the expiration of the permit will not be affected.
   (B)   (1)   When the Town Council or its designee denies renewal of the
permit, the applicant shall not be issued a permit under this chapter for one
year from the date of denial.
      (2)   If, subsequent to the denial, the Town Council or its designee
finds that the basis for denial of the renewal of the permit has been
corrected, the applicant shall be granted a permit if at least 90 days have
elapsed since the date the denial became final.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -)
§ 114.30 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Town Council or it designee shall suspend a permit for a period
not to exceed 30 days if it determines that a permittee, or an employee of a
permittee, has:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
      (2)   Been under the influence of alcoholic beverages or any controlled
substances while working in the sexually oriented business premises;
      (3)   Refused to allow an inspection of sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;
      (4)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually oriented
business premises;
      (5)   (a)   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of a
building, fire, health, or zoning statute, code, ordinance, or regulation,
whether federal, state, or local, said determination being based on
investigation by the division, department, or agency charged with enforcing
said rules or laws.
         (b)   In the event of such statute, code, ordinance, or regulation
violation, the Clerk/Treasurer or his or her designee shall promptly notify the
permittee of the violation and shall allow the permittee a seven-day period in
which to correct the violation.
         (c)   If the permittee fails to correct the violation before the
expiration of the seven-day period, the Clerk/Treasurer or his or her designee
shall forthwith suspend the permit and shall notify the permittee of the
suspension;
      (6)   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of the hours
of operation of this chapter; or
      (7)   Knowingly employs a person who does not have a valid license as
required in this chapter.
   (B)   The suspension shall remain in effect until the violation of the
statute, code, ordinance, or regulation in question has been corrected.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -)
§ 114.31 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Town Council or its designee shall revoke a permit if a cause of
suspension of this chapter occurs and the permit has been suspended within the
preceding 12 months.
   (B)   The Town Council or its designee shall revoke a permit upon
determining that:
      (1)   A permittee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process that tended to enhance the applicant’s
opportunity for obtaining a permit;
      (2)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use,
or sale of controlled substances in or on the premises;
      (3)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on
the premises;
      (4)   A permittee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the permittee’s permit was suspended;
      (5)   A permittee has been convicted of a specified criminal act for
which the time period required of this chapter has not elapsed;
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed an offense, occurring in or on the permitted premises,
constituting a specified criminal act for which a conviction has been obtained,
and the person or persons were employees of the sexually oriented business at
the time the offenses were committed. The fact that a conviction is being
appealed shall have no effect on the revocation of the permit;
      (7)   A permittee is convicted of tax violations for any taxes or fees
related to a sexually oriented business;
      (8)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or any other specified
sexual activities to occur in or on the permitted premises;
      (9)   A permittee has been operating more than one sexually oriented
business under a single roof; or
      (10)   A permittee has engaged in or attempted to engage in a transfer of
permit in violation of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   When the Town Council or its designee revokes a permit, the
revocation shall continue for one year, and the permittee shall not be issued a
sexually oriented business permit for one year from the date revocation became
effective.
      (2)   If, subsequent to revocation, the Town Council or its designee
finds that the basis for revocation under this chapter has been corrected, the
applicant shall be granted a permit if at least 90 days have elapsed since the
date revocation became effective.
      (3)   If the permit was revoked under this chapter, an applicant may not
be granted another permit until the number of years required have elapsed.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -)
§ 114.32 APPEALS; JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an application, or
suspension or revocation of a permit, the applicant or permittee may seek
judicial review of the administrative action in the County Circuit Court.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -)
§ 114.33 TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permittee shall not operate a sexually oriented business under the
authority of a permit at any place other than the address designated in the
application for the permit.
   (B)   A permittee shall not transfer his or her permit to another person.
   (C)   A permittee shall not transfer his or her permit to another location.
   (D)   Any attempt to transfer a permit either directly or indirectly in
violation of this section is hereby declared void, and the permit shall be
deemed revoked.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -)
LICENSING
§ 114.45 EMPLOYEE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Each individual to be employed in a SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS, as defined
in §
114.02, who engages in the services rendered by a nude model studio, escort or
escort agency, sexual encounter establishment, or a live performer or
entertainer shall be required to obtain a sexually oriented business employee
license.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -)
§ 114.46 APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   Each applicant shall pay a permit fee of $25.
      (2)   Said fee is to cover reasonable administrative costs of the
licensing application process.
   (B)   Before any applicant may be issued a sexually oriented business
employee license, the applicant shall submit on a form to be provided by the
Auditor or his or her designee the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s name or any other names (including “stage” names)
or aliases used by the individual;
      (2)   Age, date, and place of birth;
      (3)   Height, weight, hair color, and eye color;
      (4)   Present residence address and telephone number;
      (5)   Present business address and telephone number;
      (6)   State driver’s license or identification number;
      (7)   Social Security number; and
      (8)   Acceptable written proof that the individual is at least 18 years
of age.
   (C)   Attached to the application form, as provided in divisions (B)(1)
through (B)(8) above, a color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the
applicant’s face, and the applicant’s fingerprints on a form provided by the
County Sheriff’s Department. Any fees for the photographs and fingerprints
shall be paid by the applicant.
   (D)   (1)   A statement detailing the license or permit history of the
applicant for the five years immediately preceding the date of the filing of
the application, including:
         (a)    Whether such applicant previously operating or seeking to
operate, in this or any other county, town, state, or country has ever had a
license, permit, or authorization to do business denied, revoked, or suspended;
or
         (b)   Had any professional or vocational license or permit denied,
revoked, or suspended.
      (2)   In the event of any such denial, revocation, or suspension, state
the date, the name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction, and describe in full
the reasons for the denial, revocation, or suspension.
      (3)   A copy of any order of denial, revocation, or suspension shall be
attached to the application.
   (E)   (1)   Whether the applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal
act as described in this chapter.
      (2)   This information shall include the date, place, nature of each
conviction or plea of nolo contendere, and identifying the convicting
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -)
§ 114.47 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   The Planning Commission or its designee shall refer the sexually
oriented business employee license application to the County Sheriff’s
Department for an investigation to be made of such information as is contained
on the application.
      (2)   The application process shall be completed within ten days from the
date the completed application is filed.
   (B)   After the investigation, the Auditor or his or her designee shall
issue a license unless the report from the Police Department finds that one or
more of the following findings are true:
      (1)   The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading, or
fraudulent statement of a material fact in the application for a license, or in
any report or record required to be filed with the County Sheriff’s Department
or other department of the county;
      (2)   The applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal act, as
described in this chapter;
      (4)   The sexually oriented business employee license is to be used for
employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule, or
regulation, or prohibited by particular provisions of this chapter; and
      (5)   The applicant has had a sexually oriented business employee license
revoked by the county within two years of the date of the current application.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -)
§ 114.48 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license granted pursuant to this subchapter shall be subject to
annual renewal by the Clerk/Treasurer or his or her designee upon the written
application of the applicant and a finding by the Clerk/Treasurer or his or her
designee and the County Sheriff’s Department that the applicant has not been
convicted of any specified criminal act, as described in this chapter, or
committed any act during the existence of the previous license period which
would be grounds to deny the initial permit application.
   (B)   The renewal of the license shall be the same as the initial
application fee.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine not to exceed $2,500 for each violation. Each day of
continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to seeking penalties against individuals who violate
provisions of this chapter, the Town Attorney or his or her designated
representations may commence legal action seeking injunctive relief against any
individuals or entities violating the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed - -)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CURFEW FOR MINORS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER, SAFETY, AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 130: CURFEW FOR MINORS
Section
   
130.01   Curfew for minors
   
130.02   Exceptions
   
130.03   Violations
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   It is a curfew violation for a child between the ages of 13 to 17
years, each inclusive, to be in a public place during the following times:
      (1)   Between 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday and Sunday;
      (2)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and
Thursday; and
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or
Friday.
   (B)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 13 to be in a public place
after 10:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
(Ord. 2013-002, passed 2-12-2013) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   Any minor accompanied by a parent, legal guardian, or custodian;
   (B)   Any minor accompanied by an adult over age 21 specified by a parent,
legal guardian, or custodian; or
   (C)   Any minor participating in or returning from lawful employment, or a
lawful athletic, educational, entertainment, religious, or social event.
(Ord. 2013-002, passed 2-12-2013)
§ 130.03 VIOLATIONS.
   Any minor found to be in violation of this chapter will be taken into
custody by the Town Marshal until the minor’s parent or legal guardian can be
contacted and an arrangement made for the minor to be picked up.
(Ord. 2013-002, passed 2-12-2013)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Violations for curfew shall be subject to the following fines:
   (A)   First offense: $50;
   (B)   Second offense: $100; and
   (C)   Third offense: $200.
(Ord. 2013-002, passed 2-12-2013)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER, SAFETY, AND PROPERTY
Section
Fireworks
   
131.01   Restrictions on use and type
   
131.02   Restrictions on locations
   
131.03   Appeals
 
   
131.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 131.01 RESTRICTIONS ON USE AND TYPE.
   (A)   The use of fireworks, consumer or commercial, which produce bangs and/
or pops and/or whistles in excess of normal fire burning or sparks, excepting
therefrom sparklers, snap-pops, and party poppers, within the town limits shall
be limited and restricted as follows:
      (1)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on July 1, July 2,
July 3, July 5, July 6, and July 7;
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. on Memorial Day,
July 4, and Labor Day;
      (3)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m. on December 31; and
      (4)   Any other time authorized by the Town Council in writing.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the following officials from
further restricting, or prohibiting, the use of fireworks during the
aforementioned periods of time for any weather related or public safety
reasons:
      (1)   Local Fire Chief;
      (2)   State Fire Marshal;
      (3)   The Town Marshal; or
      (4)   Any duly authorized law enforcement official.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 9-8-2020) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 RESTRICTIONS ON LOCATIONS.
   (A)   The use of any fireworks shall be restricted to the property owned
and/or leased by citizens of the town and their guests. Fireworks shall not be
used on any public property of the town including, but not limited to, public
streets, public sidewalks, alleys, parks, or public rights-of-way.
   (B)   Any person discharging any firework, whether during authorized time
periods or not, shall be responsible for any, and all, damages or injuries
which may result from the use of those fireworks.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 9-8-2020) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person issued a citation for a violation of §§
131.01 and
131.02 may appeal the issuance of the citation by providing written notice to
the Clerk/Treasurer’s office not later than 30 days after the issuance date of
the citation. The Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the Town Council and place the
request for an appeal on the agenda of the next Town Council meeting where the
Town Council, by majority vote, shall determine the validity of the citation
after presentation of relevant evidence.
   (B)   Any violation that remains unpaid for a period of ten days after the
date of issue (or ten days after the Town Council determination of validity if
the appeal is requested) will result in a small claims filing against the
offender. In the event of any small claims filing, the offender will be
responsible for any court costs, together with reasonable attorney fees for the
services of the Town Attorney in bringing the action to collect the unpaid
fine.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 9-8-2020)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who lights or otherwise discharges any restricted firework(s)
during any prohibited time period shall be in violation of §
131.01 and may be issued a citation by the Town Marshal or any duly authorized
law enforcement official. The penalty for the first violation shall be $100.
The penalty for the second violation shall be $200. The penalty for the third
violation shall be $400, and shall double for each subsequent violation
thereafter. The aforementioned fines shall be payable to the General Fund of
the town.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 9-8-2020)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   HOUSING AND STREET NUMBERING
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   MOBILE, MANUFACTURED HOMES
      
153.   STORM WATER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: HOUSING AND STREET NUMBERING
Section
   
150.01   Numbers required on all houses and buildings
§ 150.01 NUMBERS REQUIRED ON ALL HOUSES AND BUILDINGS.
   (A)   All houses, buildings, and store rooms in the town shall be numbered
in accordance with the numbering system adopted by the Town Council.
   (B)   All houses, buildings, and store room numbers shall be conspicuously
placed on said houses, buildings, or store rooms and shall not be less than
three inches in height.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 11-1-1994)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building Standards
   
151.01   Connection to sewer system
   
151.02   Inspection
Unsafe Buildings
   
151.15   Adoption of state law
   
151.16   Definitions
   
151.17   Executive department
Building Permits
   
151.30   Permit requirements and fees
   
151.31   Term of permit
Fences
   
151.45   Definitions
   
151.46   Permit required
   
151.47   Standards for construction, repair, and reconstruction
   
151.48   Duty of property owners to notify adjacent property owners
BUILDING STANDARDS
§ 151.01 CONNECTION TO SEWER SYSTEM.
   Prior approval from the Town Council must be obtained for any and all
connection to the town sewer system.
(Ord. 93-05-02, passed 5-4-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.02 INSPECTION.
   The Town Council or its designee shall have permission to inspect all
construction sites at any time, in order to monitor compliance with this
subchapter.
(Ord. 93-05-02, passed 5-4-1993)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 151.15 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   Provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28 inclusive (“the Act”)
concerning the enforcement of building standards are hereby adopted in their
entirety, and as they may be subsequently amended, and are made a part hereof
by reference to the same as if fully set out herein. As so adopted, the Act
shall apply and be enforceable in the town limits.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 151.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Town Council shall be the executive department authorized by
this subchapter to administer the provisions of the Act.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The Town Council shall be the designated enforcement
authority.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. The Town Council shall act as the hearing authority and
shall perform those functions specified by the Act.
   INVESTIGATOR. The investigator shall be the Town Marshal.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. The definition as set out in I.C. 36-7-9-2 is
hereby specifically incorporated by reference into this subchapter as if fully
set forth herein.
   UNSAFE BUILDING. The description of an UNSAFE BUILDING contained in I.C. 36-
7-9-4 is hereby supplemented to provide minimum standards for building
condition or maintenance in the town by addition of the following definition:
Any building or structure that has any or all of the conditions or defects
hereinafter described shall be deemed to be an UNSAFE BUILDING, provided that
such conditions or defects exist to the extent that life, health, property, or
safety of the public or its occupants are endangered.
      (1)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists, or
is maintained in violation of any specific requirements or prohibition
applicable to such building or structure provided by the building regulations
of the town, or of any law or ordinance of the state or county relating to the
condition, location, or structure of buildings, any said building or structure
shall be deemed an UNSAFE BUILDING.
      (2)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public, then said building or structure shall be deemed an UNSAFE
BUILDING.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 151.17 EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-3, and consistent with the definitions contained in
§
151.16, the Town Council is hereby designated as the executive department of
the town responsible for the administration of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 8-8-2023)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 151.30 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND FEES.
   (A)   The schedule of fees for a building permit and other services for the
town shall be charged and collected by the Town Clerk/Treasurer as follows, to-
wit:
      (1)   Residential permit, $5, subject to prior approval of the plan and
specification of all materials for said structure by the Town Council;
      (2)   Remodeling in addition to present structure on an improved lot,
$2.50, subject to prior approval of the plan and specification of all materials
for said structure by the Town Council;
      (3)   Relocating a residence from one lot to another lot, $5, subject to
prior approval of the plan and specification of all materials for said
structure by the Town Council;
      (4)   Commercial building permits, $5, for the first 5,000 square feet,
plus $1 for each additional 1,000 square feet, subject to prior approval of the
plan and specification of all materials for said structure by the Town Council;
and
      (5)   Mobile and manufactured homes displaying a valid current inspection
seal, $3, subject to prior approval of the plan and specification of all
materials for said structure by the Town Council.
   (B)   There shall be no charge for improvements to churches, schools, and
public buildings; however, said construction must obtain and display valid town
and state building permits, if any are required.
(Ord. 93-05-02, passed 5-4-1993)
§ 151.31 TERM OF PERMIT.
   All permits shall be valid for one year from date of issue, unless extended
by the Town Council.
(Ord. 93-05-02, passed 5-4-1993)
FENCES
§ 151.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FENCE. Includes any erected structure designed to enclose any area
physically or visually.
   PERSON. Includes any firm, corporation, partnership, voluntary association,
and organization of every nature, as well as individuals.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 5-9-2021)
§ 151.46 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A permit shall be obtained from the Town Marshal’s office prior to
commencement of construction, repair, reconstruction, or removal of any fence
within the town.
   (B)   Permit fees for fences shall be set by Council resolution. The permit
fee shall be $25 until further resolution of the town.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 5-9-2021)
§ 151.47 STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR, AND RECONSTRUCTION.
   The following standards shall be adhered to for all fence construction,
repair, or reconstruction:
   (A)   All fences shall be constructed of metal fencing, plastic or resin
fencing, or wood building materials;
   (B)   Fencing shall not exceed six feet in height;
   (C)   Posts shall be commercial metal posts or four inches by four inches.
No telephone pole or round wooden posts shall be allowed for fence
construction;
   (D)   Fencing shall be placed not closer than one foot from the adjacent
property line; and
   (E)   No exposed electrical fencing is allowed.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 5-9-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.48 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNERS TO NOTIFY ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Notice shall be made to any adjacent property owner, in writing, prior to
the commencement of any fencing project. Adjacent property owners shall have
ten days to object to any proposed fencing project. An objection should be made
in writing to the Town Marshal’s office, and then the objection shall be heard
at the next available Town Council meeting prior to the commencement of any new
fence construction.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 5-9-2021)
CHAPTER 152: MOBILE, MANUFACTURED HOMES
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Compliance
   
152.03   Placement
   
152.04   Sanitary sewer, water
   
152.05   Anchoring
   
152.06   Adoption of state law and regulations
   
152.07   Furnishing of utilities; deficient units
Permits
   
152.20   Permit required
   
152.21   Public hearing required
   
152.22   Notice to adjacent property owners
   
152.23   Application for certificate of occupancy
   
152.24   Variance
   
152.25   Revocation
 
   
152.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Manufactured homes, see I.C. 36-7-4-1106
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit fabricated on or after June 15, 1976, in
an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the building
site, bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with the Federal
Construction and Safety Standards Code, state laws, and any rules and
regulations promulgated by the State Administrative Building Council.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS CODE. Title IV of the
1974 Housing and Community Development Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.), as
amended, previously known as the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Act, rules and regulations adopted thereunder, which include U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development approved information supplied by the home
manufacturer, and regulations and interpretations of said Code by the State
Administrative Building Council.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable structure built prior to June 15, 1976, the
effective date for the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety Act of 1974
(42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.), larger than 320 square feet, and designed to be
used as a year-round residential dwelling, with no foundation other than
wheels, jacks, skirting, or other temporary supports.
(Prior Code, § 36-7-4-1106) (Ord. 8-80-19-B, passed 8-19-1980)
§ 152.02 COMPLIANCE.
   No person shall keep, locate, maintain, park, place, or stand any mobile
home on or upon any lot, parcel, or piece of ground in the town except in
compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 36-7-4-1106) (Ord. 8-80-19-B, passed 8-19-1980) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 PLACEMENT.
   (A)   No mobile home shall be kept, located, maintained, parked, placed, or
stood on or upon any lot, parcel, or piece of ground within 50 feet from a
state highway, within 20 feet of any other highway or paved thoroughfare right-
of-way, or within three feet of any other property line of any lot, parcel, or
piece of ground.
   (B)   No unit may be older than ten years of the current application.
   (C)   All units must have a ten-foot setback from all property lines.
(Prior Code, § 36-7-4-1106) (Ord. 8-80-19-B, passed 8-19-1980; Ord. 2008-03,
passed 6- -2008) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 SANITARY SEWER, WATER.
   Every mobile home shall be connected to the town sanitary sewer system and
shall contain its own sanitary facilities. Every mobile home shall contain its
own water facilities.
(Prior Code, § 36-7-4-1106) (Ord. 8-80-19-B, passed 8-19-1980) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 ANCHORING.
   Every mobile home shall be securely anchored according to the specifications
set forth by the manufacturer and the requirements prescribed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 36-7-4-1106) (Ord. 8-80-19-B, passed 8-19-1980) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND REGULATIONS.
   All state laws and any rules and regulations adopted by the State Board of
Health governing the placement of mobile homes are incorporated by reference
into this section.
(Prior Code, § 36-7-4-1106) (Ord. 8-80-19-B, passed 8-19-1980)
§ 152.07 FURNISHING OF UTILITIES; DEFICIENT UNITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to furnish
electricity, gas, water, or any other utility service to any house trailer or
mobile home not having a permit or certificate of occupancy, upon being given
notice of this deficiency in writing by the Clerk/Treasurer.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 6- -2008) Penalty, see §
152.99
PERMITS
§ 152.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person desiring to place or replace a house trailer, manufactured,
or mobile home on any lot or parcel of land within the corporate limits of the
town shall first obtain a permit or certificate of occupancy from the Town
Council.
   (B)   No mobile home shall be kept, located, maintained, parked, placed, or
stood in town until the Council has approved the issuance of a permit to do so.
(Prior Code, § 36-7-4-1106) (Ord. 8-80-19-B, passed 8-19-1980; Ord. 2008-03,
passed 6- -2008)
§ 152.21 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   No permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued unless and until a
public hearing has been held and a recommendation and approval for such
issuance has been granted by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 6- -2008)
§ 152.22 NOTICE TO ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNERS.
   No permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued until all adjacent
property owners have been notified in writing by the Town Clerk/Treasurer of
the public hearing. Such notice shall be served either by certified mail or
hand delivery by the Town Marshal.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 6- -2008)
§ 152.23 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Application for a permit of occupancy shall be made to the Town
Council by the owner of the lot or parcel of land on which such unit is to be
placed. The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Owner of land;
      (2)   Owner of unit;
      (3)   Drawing of land drawn to scale, showing proposed location of unit;
      (4)   Description of unit (make, model, size, and year);
      (5)   Availability of water and sanitary facilities;
      (6)   Adjacent roadways or alleys; and
      (7)   Adjacent land owners.
   (B)   Each application shall be accompanied by a fee of $50 for such permit
or certificate of occupancy, if granted, and a deposit to cover the cost of
legal advertising and related expenses.
   (C)   Upon receipt of such application, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall
advertise that a public hearing will be held, and this matter considered, at
the next regular meeting of the Town Council. Upon approval by such Council,
the Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a permit or certificate of occupancy to the
applicant.
   (D)   In order to be considered at a regularly scheduled Town Council
meeting, an application must be received in the office of the Clerk/Treasurer
not later than 14 working days prior to the date of the scheduled meeting at
which the applicant wishes to have the application reviewed.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 6- -2008)
§ 152.24 VARIANCE.
   In the event that a unit has been placed upon a lot or parcel of land in
such a manner as to be at variance with the terms of the permit or certificate
of occupancy, or violations of ordinances exist upon such premises, the Town
Marshal shall give notice to the holder of the permit or certificate of
occupancy that such irregularities exist and must be corrected.
(Ord. 2008-03, passed 6- -2008)
§ 152.25 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Failure to correct such variance or other irregularities within ten
days after the receipt of such notice, as provided in §
152.24, shall be grounds for the revocation of such permit or certificate of
occupancy by the Town Council, and such revocation shall be made.
   (B)   Any permit issued under this chapter may be revoked by the Council if
the permit holder violates any provision of this chapter or knowingly permits a
violation to occur or continue. No permit issued under this chapter shall be
revoked until the permit holder has been granted a public hearing by the
Council. The permit holder shall receive written notice of the alleged
violations and of the time and place of the hearing at least seven days before
the hearing takes place.
   (C)   Revocation of a permit or certificate of occupancy may be appealed,
and upon the receipt of the proper deposit as by current fee ordinance, the
Clerk/Treasurer shall advertise that a public hearing will be held, and this
matter considered, by the Town Council at its next regular meeting. The
findings of the Council shall be final, but subject to judicial review.
(Prior Code, § 36-7-4-1106) (Ord. 8-80-19-B, passed 8-19-1980; Ord. 2008-03,
passed 6- -2008)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
152.01 through
152.06, and
152.20(B) and
152.25(B) shall be deemed to have committed an ordinance violation and, upon
conviction, shall be fined not more than $10 for each offense, in addition to
court costs. Each day a violation continues constitutes a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 36-7-4-1106) (Ord. 8-80-19-B, passed 8-19-1980)
CHAPTER 153: STORM WATER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Adoption of statutory provisions
   
153.02   User fee
   
153.03   Special taxing district
Department of Storm Water Management
   
153.15   Department of Storm Water Management
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 ADOPTION OF STATUTORY PROVISIONS.
   In compliance with I.C. 8-1.5-5-4 and I.C. 8-1.5-5-5 the Council hereby
adopts and incorporates herein by reference the provisions of I.C. 8-1.5-5-
1 through I.C. 8-1.5-5-32, inclusive, (hereinafter the “Act”), as from time to
time amended.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 9-12-2023)
§ 153.02 USER FEE.
   (A)   The user fees collected in accordance with this subchapter
establishing fees and any amendments thereto shall be prepared and collected by
the town in accordance with those provisions regulating the preparation and
issuance of bills for sewer service generally.
   (B)   The fees listed in division (A) above are to be deposited in the Storm
Water Utility Fund with the revenues retained, accumulated, and used for
improvements to the Storm Water Utility System as permitted by I.C. 36-9-23 and
as directed by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed - -)
§ 153.03 SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT.
   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5-5, there is hereby created and established a
special taxing district to be known as the Town Storm Water Management District
(“District”). The jurisdiction of the District shall include all territory
within the territorial boundaries of the town. Under I.C. 8-1.5-5-5 the
District shall have the power to levy a special user fee for the purposes of
storm water collection and disposal, together with all other authority, powers,
duties, and responsibilities set forth in the Act.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 9-12-2023)
DEPARTMENT OF STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
§ 153.15 DEPARTMENT OF STORM WATER MANAGEMENT.
   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5-4, there is hereby created and established the Town
Department of Storm Water Management (“Department”). The Department shall be
controlled and managed by a Board of Directors (the “Board”) consisting of the
members appointed by the Council, all pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-5-4(c). The Board
shall have the powers specified under I.C. 8-1.5-5-6, together with all other
authority, powers, duties, and responsibilities set forth in the Act. Each
Director shall serve a four-year term, with the first appointed Director
serving only a two-year term so as to create staggered terms as required by
I.C. 8-1.5-5-4(d).
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 9-12-2023)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   LAND VACATIONS
      
III.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
      
IV.   STREET NAMES
      
V.   CREATION OF FUNDS
      
VI.   TAX SALE CERTIFICATES
      
VII.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Annexation of real estate, being part of the
98-06         6-24-1998   Southeast quarter of Section 16, Township 22 North,
                          Range 5 East, Wildcat Township, Tipton County,
                          Indiana.
              
 
TABLE II: LAND VACATIONS
 
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
2021- 2-26-  Vacating a public way, being the alley adjacent to the North line of Lot
01    2021   Number 1 in Block Number 1 in Keith’s Second Addition to the town.
2022- 10-11- Vacating a public alleyway, being the 16-foot alley between Lot 1 and
02    2022   the outlots shown on Zehner’s First Addition.
            
 
TABLE III: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No.            Date Passed Description
                                     Agreement approving participation of the
--                       -           town in the Indiana Region Five Ouabache
                                     Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 36-1-7-1)            
 
TABLE IV: STREET NAMES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     (1) Wildcat Drive shall be created, beginning at Sherman
                     Street and running South to its end.
                     (2) North Park Street running East and West between
                     Doggett Street and Independence Street shall be renamed
                     Maple Street.
                     (3) South Park Street running East and West between East
                     Park Street and Independence Street shall be renamed
                     Walnut Street.
                     (4) North King Street running East and West between
94-03    11-1-1994   Independence Street and King Street shall be renamed
                     Sycamore Street.
                     (5) South King Street running East and West between
                     Independence Street and King Street shall be renamed
                     Poplar Street.
                     (6) New Street shall be created, running East and West
                     between Washington Street and Romack Street.
                     (7) Park Street running North from Sherman Street shall be
                     renamed Elm Street.
                     (8) Mulberry Street shall be created, running East and
                     West between Dewitt Street and Independence Street.
                    
 
TABLE V: CREATION OF FUNDS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
2014-3        - -            Creating the Windfall Stormwater Utility Fund.
-             - -1999        Creating the Unsafe Building Fund.
02-2021       6-8-2021       Creating the ARP Grand Fund, given fund number
                             176.
2021-14       7-27-2021      Creating a non-reverting fund identified as Fund
                             280 and the Restore Windfall Fund.
2023-13       8-22-2023      Creating the Storm Water Grant 6506 Fund, given
                             fund number 601.
                            
 
TABLE VI: TAX SALE CERTIFICATES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
                             Accepting the tax sale certificate associated with
R. 2020-003   5-12-2020      the front portion of the property located at 107
                             North Independence.
                            
 
TABLE VII: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
83-19-4       4-19-1983      Cable television franchise with Telenational
                             Communications, LLC.
2000-01       3-21-2000      Cable television franchise with Insight
                             Communications of Indiana, LLC.
                            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
 REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cite Code Section
I.C. Cite                    Code Section
1-1-1-5                      10.04
1-1-1-7                      10.12
1-1-1-8                      10.06
1-1-4-5                      10.05
1-1-5-1                      10.11
1-1-6-1                      10.08
1-1-9-1                      31.02
1-1-10-1                     34.01
3-10-7-2.9(c)(1)             30.16
3-13-3                       Ch. 30
5-11-13-1                    31.19
5-14-3                       34.15-
                             34.17
5-16-6-1                     31.02
5-22                         31.18
7.1-3-9-3                    112.01
8-1-2-1 et seq.              Ch. 52
8-1.5-5-1 through 8-1.5-5-32 153.01
8-1.5-5-4                    153.01;
                             153.15
8-1.5-5-4(c)                 153.15
8-1.5-5-4(d)                 153.15
8-1.5-5-5                    153.01;
                             153.03
8-1.5-5-6                    153.15
9-13-2-18                    Ch. 71, Sched. IV
9-19-5                       90.02
9-21-1                       Ch. 71, Sched. IV
9-21-1 et seq.               Ch. 71
9-21-5-3                     Ch. 71, Sched. IV
9-21-5-6                     Ch. 71, Sched. IV
9-21-5-8                     Ch. 71, Sched. IV
9-21-9-3                     73.11
9-21-9-4                     73.11
                             90.20;
9-22-1                       90.22;
                             90.23
9-26                         70.01
13-1-3                       91.65
15-20-1-3                    91.36
16-41-20                     90.03
22-9-1-4 et seq.             93.02
22-9-1-10                    31.03
22-9-1-12.1                  31.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.             93.01
22-9.5-2-2                   93.02
22-9.5-2-8                   93.02
22-9.5-2-9                   93.02
22-9.5-3                     93.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.             93.10
22-9.5-4-8                   93.11
22-9.5-5                     93.02
22-9.5-5-1                   93.03
22-9.5-6                     93.02;
                             93.11
32-30-6-6                    Ch. 51;
                             90.01
33-37                        32.05
33-37-4-2                    32.05
33.40-6                      32.05
34-1-52-1 et seq.            90.01
35-44.1-4-4                  31.18
35-45-3-2                    Ch. 90
35-46-3-.05(4)               91.01
35-46-3-1                    91.24
35-46-3-12                   91.99
36-1-2                       32.01
36-1-3-8                     Ch. 113
36-1-3-8(a)(10)              10.99
36-1-6-3                     91.05
36-1-12                      31.18
36-5-2-4.1                   Ch. 30
36-5-2-5                     Ch. 30
36-5-2-9                     11.01
36-5-4-1                     33.17
36-5-7-1                     31.01
36-7-4-1106                  Ch. 152
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28   151.15
36-7-9-2                     151.16
36-7-9-3                     151.17
36-7-9-4                     151.16
36-7-9-2                     151.16
36-7-9-4                     151.16; 151.19
36-7-9-5(a)(2)               151.19
36-9-2-1                     Ch. 52
36-9-23                      153.02
36-9-23-30                   Ch. 51
36-9-25-11                   50.04
36-10-3-1                    Ch. 32
36-10-3-1 et seq.            32.21
                             
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
1-1-9-1            31.02
1-1-10-1           34.01
9-3-1-3            70.01
                   70.01;
9-4-1-28           Ch. 71 Sched. I;
                   Ch. 71 Sched. II;
                   Ch. 71 Sched. III
9-4-1-58           70.01;
                   Ch. 71 Sched. IV
9-4-1-114          70.01;
                   Ch. 72 Sched. I
9-8-6-35           90.02;
                   90.99
16-1-25-1          90.03;
                   90.99
22-9-1-10          31.03
34-1-52-1          90.01
                   90.35,
35-45-3-2          90.36;
                   90.99
                   113.01-
36-1-3-8           113.04;
                   113.99
36-1-7-1           TSO Table III
36-5-2-4.1         30.01-
                   30.03
36-5-2-5           30.15
36-5-2-9           11.01
36-5-4-1           33.17
36-5-7-1           31.01
                   152.01-
                   152.06;
36-7-4-1106        152.20;
                   152.25;
                   152.99
                   52.01-
36-9-2-1           52.11;
                   52.25-
                   52.30
                   51.01-
36-9-23-30         51.03;
                   51.99
36-10-3-1          32.20-
                   32.22
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     52.01-
1-20-64  1-20-1964   52.11;
                     52.25-
                     52.30
                     51.02,
214      9-1-1965    51.03;
                     51.99
2013-1   7-9-2013    52.30
2014-1   7-9-2014    34.35-
                     34.41
2019-3   8-13-2019   51.15
2020-003 5-12-2020   TSO Table VI
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
                      114.01-
                      114.11;
2007-02   - -         114.25-
                      114.33;
                      114.45-
                      114.48
                      91.02,
2008-01   - -         91.03;
                      91.20
2014-3    - -         153.02;
                      TSO Table V
2021-16   - -         31.02
2023-04   - -         33.03
                      113.01,
64        7-2-1883    113.02;
                      113.99
                      113.01-
114       1-16-1893   113.03;
                      113.99
115       1-16-1893   113.02;
                      113.99
-         5-5-1954    Ch. 71 Sched. I;
                      Ch.72 Sched. I
-         5-17-1954   51.01;
                      51.99
202       12-8-1956   Ch. 72 Sched. I
                      113.02,
207       5-3-1961    113.03;
                      113.99
                      113.01-
207       5-4-1964    113.03;
                      113.99
                      Ch. 71 Sched. II;
2-16-70   2-16-1970   Ch. 71 Sched. III;
                      Ch. 72 Sched. I
6-21-71   6-21-1970   Ch. 72 Sched. I
-         10-19-1970  Ch. 71 Sched. I
6-21-71   6-21-1971   Ch. 71 Sched. II;
                      Ch. 71 Sched. IV
7-21-71   6-21-1971   Ch. 71 Sched. I;
                      Ch. 71 Sched. III
73-3      10-15-1973  Ch. 72 Sched. I
09-02-75  9-2-1975    90.36;
                      90.99
                      90.01;
5-3-77    5-3-1977    90.03;
                      90.36;
                      90.99
-         5-2-1978    32.20-
                      32.22
-         9-18-1979   32.20,
                      32.21
                      152.01-
                      152.06;
8-80-19-B 8-19-1980   152.20;
                      152.25;
                      152.99
82482     8-24-1982   Ch. 72 Sched. I
83-19-4   4-19-1983   TSO Table VII
                      151.01,
93-05-02  5-4-1993    151.02;
                      151.30,
                      151.31
93-05-03  5-4-1993    90.20
                      50.01-
93-04     9-7-1993    50.03;
                      50.05;
                      50.99
94-02     11-1-1994   150.01
94-03     11-1-1994   TSO Table IV
95-081    8-1-1995    Ch. 71 Sched. IV
98-06     6-24-1998   TSO Table I
-         - -1999     TSO Table V
99-01     5-17-1999   94.01-
                      94.06
                      92.01-
-         11-12-1999  92.09;
                      92.99
         - -2000     32.01-
                      32.06
2000-01   3-21-2000   TSO Table VII
02-01     1-2-2001    Ch. 72 Sched. I
01-03     1-8-2002    52.30
01-04     1-8-2002    110.01-
                      110.05
                      90.01;
                      152.03;
2008-03   6- -2008    152.07;
                      152.20-
                      152.25
2008-03   7-1-2008    Ch. 71 Sched. IV
2009-3    11-17-2009  33.30
                      111.01-
-         - -2012     111.11;
                      111.99
2-2012    6-25-2012   31.15-
                      31.19
                      130.01-
2013-002  2-12-2013   130.03;
                      130.99
2013-04   5-13-2013   Ch. 71 Sched. I
                      Ch. 71 Sched. I;
2013-02   8-13-2013    Ch. 71 Sched. II;
                      Ch. 71 Sched. III
2013-03   8-13-2013   Ch. 71 Sched. IV
                      Ch. 71, Sched. I;
2013-     12-10-2013   Ch. 71 Sched. II;
                      Ch. 71 Sched. III
                      93.01-
2014-2    3-12-2014   93.11;
                      93.99
2014-4    7-9-2014    Ch. 71 Sched. II
2014-6    7-9-2014    90.21-
                      90.24
2016-002  12-14-2016  33.02
2019-3    8-13-2019   112.01
20-06     - -2020     52.31
2020-01   1-8-2020    51.15
2020-07   9-8-2020    131.01-
                      131.03
2020-06   10-27-2020  33.15
                      90.01;
                      90.04-
                      90.08;
                      90.99;
                      91.01;
2020-10   10-27-2020  91.05,
                      91.06;
                      91.21-
                      91.23;
                      91.35;
                      91.50;
                      91.99
2020-11   10-27-2020  52.31
2021-02   - -2021     34.15-
                      34.21
2021-01   2-26-2021   TSO Table II
2021-12   5-9-2021    151.45-
                      151.48
02-2021   6-8-2021    TSO Table V
2021-14   7-27-2021   TSO Table V
2021-13   8-10-2021   91.04
2021-15   10-8-2021   52.12;
                      52.31
2022-0    6-14-2022   52.31
2022-02   10-11-2022  TSO Table II
2023-02   2-14-2023   33.30
2023-03   2-14-2023   52.30
2023-08   2-28-2023   50.04;
                      50.99
2023-10   5-9-2023    33.01
2023-11   7-11-2023   30.16
2023-12   8-8-2023    151.15-
                      151.17
2023-13   8-22-2023   TSO Table V
2023-14   8-22-2023   52.45-
                      52.52
                      153.01;
2023-15   9-12-2023   153.03;
                      153.15
2024-01   2-13-2024   Adopting Ordinance
2024-02   5-14-2024   Ch. 71 Sched. VI
2024-04   8-13-2024   33.30
                      73.01-
2024-07   11-12-2024  73.14,
                      73.99
2024-08   12-10-2024  52.30
                      73.01-
2025-01   4-22-2025   73.14,
                      73.99
                     
 
 
