TOWN OF WINFIELD, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-19 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 353, passed 9-21-2023; and
State legislation current through 2023 Indiana Legislative Service, Pamphlet
No. 3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Town
Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances,” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code, unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted, or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered
by the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only, and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only, and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent
or context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of these persons, unless
otherwise declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Lake County, in which the town is located.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. The Town of Winfield, Lake County, Indiana.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships in which the town is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the WRITTEN signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section stating that the provisions of a section are
severable as provided in division (B) above does not affect the operation of
division (B) above with respect to that section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever, in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the relevant
duties, liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express that intent, the spelling shall be corrected and a word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such an error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
that section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of a penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of that chapter or section. In addition to any
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500 for a first violation of the ordinance,
or exceeding $7,500 for a second or subsequent violation of the ordinance. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Am. Ord. 344, passed 2-14-2023)
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate boundaries
§ 11.01 CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   The entire corporate territorial boundaries of the town are declared and
defined as follows: Sections 1, 12, and 13 and the north half of Section 24
(lying north of 129th Avenue), all in Township 34 North, Range 8 West of the
Second Principal Meridian; and also Sections 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 17, and 18 and the
north half of Sections 19, 20, and 21 (lying north of 129th Avenue), all in
Township 34 North, Range 7 West of the Second Principal Meridian in the county,
containing 7,680 acres, more or less.
(Ord. 1, passed 12-15-1994)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
   
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
   
32.   TOWN POLICIES
   
33.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
   
34.   FUNDS
   
35.   CAPITAL ASSET POLICY
   
36.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Establishment
   
30.02   Council Clerk
   
30.03   Powers and duties
   
30.04   Conflict of interest
   
30.05   Nomination by convention or petition
   
30.06   Terms of office of Council members
Council Meetings
   
30.15   Regular meetings
   
30.16   Special meetings
   
30.17   Quorum; voting and action
   
30.18   Order of business
   
30.19   Improper conduct
   
30.20   Parliamentary procedure
Ordinances, Orders, and Resolutions
   
30.30   Ordinance reading requirement
   
30.31   Ordinance enactment; majority vote
   
30.32   Adoption
   
30.33   Ordinance publication required
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council elected under I.C. 3-10-6 or I.C. 3-10-7 is the town
legislative body.
   (B)   The number of members of the Town Council is increased to five.
   (C)   The salary of the two additional Councilmembers will be that of
general Councilmembers to be fixed by ordinance as all other Councilmembers
other than the Council President.
   (D)   The town shall not be divided into districts but all Councilmembers
shall run for election at large.
   (E)   The legislative body shall appoint members to the two vacancies which
will exist as of January 1, 2006 upon proper notice.
(Ord. 2, passed 12-15-1994; Am. Ord. 138, passed 11-15-2005)
§ 30.02 COUNCIL CLERK.
   The Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the legislative body.
(Ord. 2, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 30.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The legislative body may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold, and convey any interest in property for the use of the
town; and
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal.
(Ord. 2, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 30.04 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   No Council member shall, directly or indirectly, be financially
interested in any contract or agreement with the town for any matter, cause, or
thing by which liability or indebtedness is created against the town.
   (B)   No member shall purchase any bond, order, claim, or demand whatever
against the town for less than the sum of the amount specified therein.
(Ord. 2, passed 12-15-1994)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 30.05 NOMINATION BY CONVENTION OR PETITION.
   Nomination of candidates for municipal office shall be conducted under I.C.
3-8-5 by convention or under I.C. 3-8-6 by petition.
(Ord. 4, passed 3-21-1995)
§ 30.06  TERMS OF OFFICE OF COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 3-10-6-2.5 et seq., as amended from
time to time, the length of the following Town Council member terms, upon being
elected at the 2019 municipal general election, pursuant to I.C. 3-10-6-2, are
as follows:
      (1)   The two Town Council seats which receive the two lease amount of
votes in the 2019 general election, and are thereby elected, shall each be
elected for a term of three years, commencing at January 1, 2020 following the
municipal election; and
      (2)   The other three Town Council seats which receive the three most
amount of votes in the 2019 general election, and are thereby elected, shall
each be elected for a term of four years, commencing at noon on January 1,
2020, following the municipal election.
   (B)   The three-year terms for Town Council member positions, as set forth
in division (A)(1) above, shall become four-year terms beginning at noon on
January 1, following the general election in which the persons elected for
those seats in the 2022 general election take office, and every four years
thereafter, as is more specifically set forth in I.C. 3-10-6-6(a), as amended.
   (C)   The four-year terms for the remaining three Town Council member
positions, as set forth in division (A)(2) above, will remain four-year terms
for each successive election thereafter, as is more specifically set forth in
I.C. 3-10-6-6(a) et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 2-B, passed 1-22-2019)
COUNCIL MEETINGS
§ 30.15 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The Town Council shall meet in regular session on the third Wednesday of
each month hereafter at 7:00 p.m. at the town offices located at 10645 Randolph
Street. If any regular meeting shall fall on a legal holiday, the Council shall
meet in regular session at an alternate time to be designated by the Council.
(Ord. 2, passed 12-15-1994; Am. Ord. 2A, passed 1-27-1999)
§ 30.16 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings of the Town Council may be called by the President or
by any two Council members upon written request signed by the President or any
two Council members.
   (B)   (1)   The notice shall contain the purpose of the meeting and the
purpose may be stated in general terms to include any and all business
regularly to come before the Council.
      (2)   The notice may be served by the President or any Council member or
the Clerk-Treasurer; provided, however, that the notice shall be served at
least 48 hours prior to the time that the meeting is to be held. The notice may
be served by delivering a copy thereof to the members of the Council, or by
leaving a copy thereof at the residence of the Council member.
   (C)   Written notice of a special meeting shall not be required if the time
and place of the special meeting has been fixed at a regular meeting and if all
Council members are present at a special meeting.
(Ord. 2, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 30.17 QUORUM; VOTING AND ACTION.
   A majority of all elected members of the Town Council shall constitute a
quorum. All business transacted at a meeting must be passed by a majority vote
of all the elected members of the Town Council to constitute official action of
the Council.
(Ord. 2, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 30.18 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The following shall be the order of business at all regular meetings of the
Town Council:
   (A)   At the hour appointed for the meeting the President shall call the
meeting to order. If the President is not present at a meeting, the Council
shall proceed to elect from among its members a President Pro Tem to preside as
chairperson of the meeting;
   (B)   The President of the Town Council shall lead the Council and the
public in the recital of the Pledge of Allegiance;
   (C)   Before proceeding with the business of the Council, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall call the roll of the members and the names of those present
shall be entered in the minutes;
   (D)   The minutes of the previous meeting or minutes of the meeting of the
Council not previously presented and the approval and/or amendment of the same;
   (E)   The Treasurer’s report;
   (F)   The presentation, approval, and signing of all bills and claims, if
any;
   (G)   The presentation of petitions, communications, and remonstrances;
   (H)   Correspondence;
   (I)   Reports of standing committees, if any;
   (J)   Reports of special committees, if any;
   (K)   Submission of ordinances and resolutions;
   (L)   Unfinished or deferred business;
   (M)   New business;
   (N)   Announcements;
   (O)   Additions to the agenda. Matters of unusual importance or of an
emergency nature may be added to the agenda at any time by the presiding
officer or a Council member with the consent of a majority of all the members
of the Town Council; and
   (P)   Adjournment.
(Ord. 2, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 30.19 IMPROPER CONDUCT.
   (A)   Any person who makes personal, impertinent, or slanderous remarks or
who becomes boisterous or delays or interrupts the proceedings or peace of
meetings of the Town Council or refuses to obey the orders of the Council or
its presiding officer shall be forthwith, by the presiding officer, barred from
further participation in the proceedings and may be expelled from the meeting
at the discretion of the presiding officer.
   (B)   In the event of any disturbance or disorderly conduct during any
session of the Council, the presiding officer shall restore order and shall
have the power to require the room to be cleared of disorderly spectators, if
necessary.
(Ord. 2, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 30.20 PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE.
   The rules and practices laid down in Roberts’ Rules of Order Revised shall
govern the Council in all cases to which they are applicable and not
inconsistent with the standing rules and orders of the Council.
(Ord. 2, passed 12-15-1994)
ORDINANCES, ORDERS, AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 30.30 ORDINANCE READING REQUIREMENT.
   Each ordinance shall be read two times before final passage unless the rules
are suspended.
(Ord. 2, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 30.31 ORDINANCE ENACTMENT; MAJORITY VOTE.
   (A)   No ordinance may be passed at the same meeting in which it is
introduced unless under suspension of rules, and then only in case there are
present and voting at least two-thirds of all members of the Council.
   (B)   A majority vote of all the members of the Council elected or appointed
is required to pass an ordinance, unless a greater vote is required by statute.
(Ord. 2, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 30.32 ADOPTION.
   An ordinance, order, or a resolution passed by the legislative body is
considered adopted when it is signed by the town executive. If required by
statute, an adopted ordinance, order, or resolution must be promulgated or
published before it takes effect.
(Ord. 2, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 30.33 ORDINANCE PUBLICATION REQUIRED.
   An ordinance prescribing a penalty for a violation must, before it takes
effect, be published, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-5, or it declares an emergency
requiring its immediate effectiveness and is posted in a number of public
places in the town equal to the number of town legislative body members if the
town has abolished legislative body districts.
(Ord. 2, passed 12-15-1994)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Town Executive
   
31.01   President of Town Council
   
31.02   Selection; term
   
31.03   Duties and powers
Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.15   Duties; state law applies
   
31.16   Council meeting minutes
Other Officials and Employees
   
31.30   Town Attorney; appointment and duties
   
31.31   Deputy Clerk-Treasurer established
   
31.32   Secretary for Town Planner and Building Administrator
   
31.33   Maintenance person established
   
31.34   Rostered volunteer list
   
31.35   Town Marshal
   
31.36   Public Works Director
   
31.37   Office and Events Coordinator
   
31.38   Building Inspector II
   
31.39   Town Planner
   
31.40   Utility and Accounts Payable Clerk
Compensation
   
31.45   Travel policy; authorized reimbursements
   
31.46   Compensation of employees and elected officials
Employee Policy Manual
   
31.60   Incorporated by reference
Nepotism and Contracting with a Unit by a Relative Policies
   
31.70   Findings
   
31.71   Effective date
   
31.72   Nepotism policy
   
31.73   Contracting with a unit by a relative policy
   
31.74   Adoption of more detailed requirements
   
31.75   Single member not authorized to act
   
31.76   Implementation
   
31.77   Violation
TOWN EXECUTIVE
§ 31.01 PRESIDENT OF TOWN COUNCIL.
   The President of the Town Council elected by the legislative body is the
town executive.
(Ord. 2, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 31.02 SELECTION; TERM.
   The legislative body shall select one of its members to be its President for
a definite term, which term may not exceed the term of office of the member of
the legislative body.
(Ord. 2, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 31.03 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   The President shall assume the chair of the presiding officer
immediately after his or her election.
   (B)   The President of the Town Council shall:
      (1)   Preserve order and decorum;
      (2)   Decide all questions of order subject to approval by the Council;
      (3)   Announce the result of all votes by the Council upon all motions,
resolutions, ordinances, and other matters; and
      (4)   Appoint all members of standing or special committees when
established by the Council, subject to approval of the Council.
(Ord. 2, passed 12-15-1994)
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 31.15 DUTIES; STATE LAW APPLIES.
   The duties of the Clerk-Treasurer shall be those as provided by state law.
(Ord. 2, passed 12-15-1994)
Cross-reference:
   Council Clerk, see §
30.02
   Disbursement authority for certain expenses, see §
32.15
   Overseeing implementation of employee policy manual, see §
31.60
§ 31.16 COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES.
   The minutes of the Town Council shall be kept in due form by the Clerk-
Treasurer, and his or her signature, together with that of the presiding
officer of the Council, shall attest to the same. It shall be the duty of the
Clerk-Treasurer to cause the minutes of all the regular and special meetings of
the Council to be written up at full length upon the minute book, which book
shall be kept for that purpose, and to furnish to the President and to each
member of the Council a legible copy thereof within one week after the meeting
has been held.
(Ord. 2, passed 12-15-1994)
OTHER OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 31.30 TOWN ATTORNEY; APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Attorney shall be appointed by the Town Council to serve at
the pleasure of the Council.
   (B)   The duties of the Town Attorney shall be as follows:
      (1)   To attend Council meetings, regular and special, and to confer and
advise Town Council members;
      (2)   To prepare ordinances, resolutions, motions, legal notices, and all
other notices that may be necessary to enable the Town Council to transact the
business of the town; and
      (3)   To prosecute all violations of town ordinances.
(Ord. 2, passed 12-15-1994)
§ 31.31 DEPUTY CLERK-TREASURER ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The position of part-time Deputy Clerk-Treasurer for the town is
approved, under the supervision of the Town Clerk-Treasurer. This position is
considered to be that of a town employee. Hours of employment and duties will
be determined by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to seek any additional bonding as
may be required or needed as a result of the creation of this position.
(Ord. 21, passed 2-19-1997)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment and approval of deputies and employees under clerk-treasurer,
see I.C. 36-5-6-7
§ 31.32 SECRETARY FOR TOWN PLANNER AND BUILDING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The position of part-time secretary for the Town Planner and Building
Administrator is approved. This position is considered to be that of a town
employee. Employee selection, hours of employment, and duties will be
determined by the Town Council President, based on the recommendations from the
Town Planner and Building Administrator.
(Ord. 22, passed 2-19-1997)
§ 31.33 MAINTENANCE PERSON ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the employment position of maintenance person.
   (B)   The enforcement of this section can be by any town official or his or
her agent.
   (C)   Under I.C. 36-1-4-14, the town may hire and discharge employees and
establish a system of employment for any class of employees based on merit and
qualification.
(Ord. 81, passed 8-23-2000)
§ 31.34 ROSTERED VOLUNTEER LIST.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts a rostered volunteer list.
   (B)   The enforcement of this section can be by any town official or his or
her agent.
   (C)   (1)   For the purpose of this section and I.C. 22-3-2-2.1, the
following definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
         ROSTERED VOLUNTEER. A volunteer whose name has been entered on a
roster of volunteers for a volunteer program operated by the town, and who has
been approved by the town.
      (2)   All other provisions of this code section are incorporated here by
reference.
   (D)   The town reserves the right to add, modify, or make changes to the
rostered volunteer list as is necessary to carry out the duties and objectives
of the town.
(Ord. 80, passed 8-23-2000)
§ 31.35 TOWN MARSHAL.
   (A)   Establishment of Town Marshal. The Office of Town Marshal for the Town
of Winfield, Lake County, Indiana, is hereby established.
   (B)   General purpose of Town Marshal. The Town Marshal shall serve as the
Chief Police Officer of the town and provides for the orderly functioning of
the Town Police Department in the enforcement of statutory law and execution of
process by a legislative body and Courts having proper jurisdiction.
   (C)   Authority to appoint Deputy Marshals. The Town Marshal is hereby
authorized to appoint Deputy Marshals (hereinafter, "Deputy"), in a number
authorized by the Town Council, and subject to the approval of the Town
Council.
   (D)   Tenure and discipline of Town Marshal. The Town Marshal shall serve at
the pleasure of the Town Council. However, before terminating or suspending a
Town Marshal who has been employed by the town for more than six months after
completing the minimum basic training requirements adopted by the Law
Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9, as amended from time to time,
the Town Council must conduct the disciplinary removal and appeals procedure
prescribed by I.C. 36-8 et seq., as amended from time to time.
   (E)   Tenure and discipline of Deputy Marshal. A Deputy who has been
employed by the town for more than six months after completing the minimum
basic training requirements adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under
I.C. 5-2-1-9 may be dismissed only if the procedures described under I.C. 6-5-
7-3 et seq., as amended from time to time, are followed.
   (F)   Statutory powers and duties. The Town Marshal is the chief police
officer of the town and has the powers of other law enforcement officers in
executing the orders of the Town Council and enforcing laws. The Town Marshal
and/or his or her Deputy shall have the following powers and responsibilities
pursuant to state statute, as amended from time to time:
      (1)   The Town Marshal, or Deputy, shall serve all process directed to
him or her by the Town Council;
      (2)   The Town Marshal, or Deputy, shall arrest without process all
persons who commit an offense within his or her view, take them before a court
having jurisdiction, and detain them in custody until the cause of the arrest
has been investigated;
      (3)   The Town Marshal, or Deputy, shall suppress breaches of the peace;
      (4)   The Town Marshal, or Deputy, may, if necessary, call the power of
the town to his or her aid;
      (5)   The Town Marshal, or Deputy, may execute search warrants and arrest
warrants; and
      (6)   The Town Marshal, or Deputy, may pursue and jail persons who commit
an offense.
   (G)   Non-statutory powers and duties. The Town Marshal and/or his or her
Deputy shall, in addition to their statutory responsibilities, be subject to
the standard operating procedures (SOP's) adopted from time to time by the Town
Council which shall describe and detail non-statutory powers and duties of the
Town Marshal and/or his or her Deputy.
   (H)   Compensation. The Town Council shall fix the compensation of both the
Town Marshal and Deputy by the salary ordinance of the town, as amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 232, passed 2-25-2014)
§ 31.36 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Position established. The job/employment position of Public Works
Director of the Town of Winfield is hereby established.
   (B)   Duties. The Public Works Director’s job duties and other related
matters are described in the attachment to Ord. 294. A copy of Ord. 294 is
available for public inspection during normal business hours in the office of
the Town Clerk.
   (C)   Supervision. The Public Works Director shall serve at the pleasure of
the Town Administrator and the Town Council.
   (D)   Compensation. The Town Council shall fix the compensation of the
Public Works Director by salary ordinance of the town, as amended hereafter
from time to time.
(Ord. 294, passed 2-12-2019)
§ 31.37 OFFICE AND EVENTS COORDINATOR.
   (A)   Position established. The job/employment position of Office and Events
Coordinator of the Town of Winfield is hereby established.
   (B)   Duties. The job duties and responsibilities for the position of Office
and Events Coordinator, and related matters, are set forth and described in the
attachment to Ord. 328. A copy of Ord. 328 is available for public inspection
during normal business hours in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Supervision. The Office and Events Coordinator shall serve at the
pleasure of the Town Council under the oversight and management of the Town
Administrator.
   (D)   Compensation. The Town Council shall fix the compensation of the
Office and Events Coordinator by the salary ordinance of the town, as amended
hereafter from time to time.
(Ord. 328, passed 4-12-2022)
§ 31.38 BUILDING INSPECTOR II.
   (A)   Position established. The job/employment position of Building
Inspector II of the Town of Winfield is hereby established.
   (B)   Duties. The job duties and responsibilities for the position of
Building Inspector II, and related matters, are set forth and described in the
attachment to Ord. 329. A copy of Ord. 329 is available for public inspection
during normal business hours in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Supervision. The Building Inspector II shall serve at the pleasure of
the Town Council under the oversight and management of the Town Administrator.
   (D)   Compensation. The Town Council shall fix the compensation of the
Building Inspector II by salary ordinance of the town, as amended hereafter
from time to time.
(Ord. 329, passed 4-12-2022)
§ 31.39 TOWN PLANNER.
   (A)   Position established. The job/employment position of Town Planner of
the Town of Winfield is hereby established.
   (B)   Duties. The job duties and responsibilities for the Town Planner, and
related matters, are set forth and described in the attachment to Ord. 330. A
copy of Ord. 330 is available for public inspection during normal business
hours in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Supervision. The Town Planner shall serve at the pleasure of the Town
Council under the oversight and management of the Town Administrator.
   (D)   Compensation. The Town Council shall fix the compensation of the Town
Planner by salary ordinance of the town, as amended hereafter from time to
time.
(Ord. 330, passed 4-12-2022)
§ 31.40 UTILITY AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE CLERK.
   (A)   Position established. The job/employment position of Utility and
Accounts Payable Clerk of the Town of Winfield is hereby established.
   (B)   Duties. The job duties and responsibilities for the Utility and
Accounts Payable Clerk, and related matters, are set forth and described in the
attachment to Ord. 331. A copy of Ord. 331 is available for public inspection
during normal business hours in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Supervision. The Utility and Accounts Payable Clerk shall serve at the
pleasure of the Town Council under the oversight and management of the Town
Administrator.
   (D)   Compensation. The Town Council shall fix the compensation of the
Utility and Accounts Payable Clerk by salary ordinance of the town, as amended
hereafter from time to time.
(Ord. 331, passed 4-12-2022)
COMPENSATION
§ 31.45 TRAVEL POLICY; AUTHORIZED REIMBURSEMENTS.
   (A)   Town travel policies. The following policies shall be used in
providing or reimbursing for Town Council members, the Clerk-Treasurer, members
of commissions and boards, appointed officials, and employees for travel
accommodations when that travel has been authorized and budgeted, pursuant to
I.C. 36-1-3-2.
      (1)   Registration fees. The cost of registration or similar fees for
conferences, seminars, and other similar meetings or functions related to town
affairs will be provided for or reimbursed when supported by original receipts.
Whenever possible, arrangements for these affairs should be made by a
designated person and directly billed to the individual.
      (2)   Transportation.
         (a)   Travel by commercial airlines, rail service, bus, or similar
common carrier mode will be provided for at the prevailing coach or tourist
rate when authorized and supported by original receipts.
         (b)   Taxi fare and/or the cost of other local (public) conveyance
will be provided for or reimbursed when supported by original receipts.
         (c)   Parking fees and tolls will be reimbursed when supported by
original receipts.
         (d)   When a personal automobile is used in lieu of common carrier
transportation, the first 700 miles (of a round trip) will be reimbursed at the
rate allowed by the IRS; miles in excess of 700 will be reimbursed at one-half
of the maximum IRS rate.
      (3)   Lodging.  
         (a)   Lodging shall be provided for or reimbursed when supported by
original receipts in the following manner.
            1.   Single occupancy will be provided at the actual cost.
            2.   Double occupancy will be provided at actual cost when both
parties are eligible for reimbursement.
            3.   Double occupancy will be provided at the single occupancy rate
when only one party is eligible for reimbursement, unless the room is a one-
rate charge.
         (b)   Reimbursement for lodging costs shall include room costs,
associated local taxes, and necessary, business-related telephone charges. Any
other charges made to the room are the responsibility of the employee.
         (c)   Room service will not be reimbursed.
      (4)   Meals.
         (a)   Meals will be reimbursed when supported by original receipts up
to $60 per day, including gratuities. The gratuities should be reasonable and
should not exceed 20%.
         (b)   When separate checks are not available, an employee may claim
reimbursement for other employees up to the maximum amount provided for in the
section multiplied by the number of employees, provided that each employee is
identified by name and that an original receipt is provided. Payment for meals
for any individual will not be made to more than one individual.
         (c)   No reimbursement will be made for meals when already provided
for in the registration fee.
      (5)   Insurance coverage. Adequate liability coverage must be carried
before consideration can be given for use of a personal automobile in
connection with town business. The adequacy of this liability, for example
$100,000/$300,000 liability, should be determined by the approving supervisor.
   (B)   State travel policies and procedures. In the event that there is a
question regarding a travel policy that is not covered in the above provisions,
the state travel policies and procedures, as amended from time to time, shall
become effective.
(Ord. 69, passed 2-15-2000)
§ 31.46 COMPENSATION OF EMPLOYEES AND ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   The compensation of town officials shall be as set by the Council from time
to time.
EMPLOYEE POLICY MANUAL
§ 31.60 INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby repeals all current employee policies,
manuals, ordinances, and regulations currently existing and in effect; and
further hereby replaces them with the Employee Policy Manual, as revised August
2023, for all non-elected employees of the Town of Winfield, attached as
Exhibit “A” to Ord. 353, and incorporated herein by reference as if set forth
in full herein.
   (B)   Upon the adoption of Ord. 353, the Town Council hereby requests the
Town Clerk-Treasurer and the Town Administrator provide a copy of the updated
and revised Employee Policy Manual to current and future non-elected town
employees, who shall acknowledge its receipt as a condition of employment.
(Ord. 353, passed 9-12-2023)
NEPOTISM AND CONTRACTING WITH A UNIT BY A RELATIVE POLICIES
§ 31.70 FINDINGS.
   The Town Council finds that it is required, necessary and appropriate to
adopt a policy of conduct with regard to nepotism in employment with the Town
of Winfield, as well as in contracting with the Town of Winfield, in order to
continue to provide local government services to the residents of the town, as
well as to comply with the new laws effective July 1, 2012, specified and set
forth in the provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and 36-1-21, respectively.
(Ord. 209, passed 6-26-2012)
§ 31.71 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall become effective for the Town of
Winfield July 1, 2012, and whereby the town shall establish hereby a nepotism
policy and a contracting with a unit by a relative policy, that comply with the
minimum requirements of I.C. 36-1-20.2 (hereinafter “nepotism policy”), as well
as I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter “contracting with a unit by a relative policy”).
The Town Council further decrees hereby that implementation of each of the
nepotism policy and contracting with a unit by a relative policy will become
effective and whereby implementation will commence instanter on July 1, 2012.
(Ord. 209, passed 6-26-2012)
§ 31.72 NEPOTISM POLICY.
   The nepotism policy of the Town of Winfield is hereby established effective
July 1, 2012, by adoption of the minimum requirement provisions of I.C. 36-1-
20.2, as the same currently exists, may be supplemented or amended thereto in
the future, and as same exists hereafter. Such current minimum requirement
provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, and as such are supplemented or amended
thereafter and as same is law in the State of Indiana hereafter from time to
time, are made a part hereof and incorporated herein as though fully set forth
and incorporated herein. Further, a copy of the provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2,
as supplemented or amended, is on file in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours.
(Ord. 209, passed 6-26-2012)
§ 31.73 CONTRACTING WITH A UNIT BY A RELATIVE POLICY.
   The contracting with a unit by a relative policy of the Town of Winfield is
hereby established effective July 1, 2012, by adoption of the minimum
requirement provisions of I.C. 36-1-21, as the same currently exists, may be
supplemented or amended thereto in the future, and as same exists hereafter.
Such current minimum requirement provisions of I.C. 36-1-21, and as such are
supplemented or amended thereafter and as same is law in the State of Indiana
hereafter from time to time, are made a part hereof and incorporated herein as
though fully set forth and incorporated herein. Further, a copy of the
provisions of I.C. 36-1-21, as supplemented or amended, is on file in the
Office of the Clerk- Treasurer and is available for public inspection during
normal business hours.
(Ord. 209, passed 6-26-2012)
§ 31.74 ADOPTION OF MORE DETAILED REQUIREMENTS.
   The Town Council hereby acknowledges and concurs that each of the provisions
of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and 36-1-21 specifically permit a unit of local government
such as the Town of Winfield to adopt requirements that are more stringent or
detailed, and the Town Council hereby finds that more details are necessary and
appropriate.
(Ord. 209, passed 6-26-2012)
§ 31.75 SINGLE MEMBER NOT AUTHORIZED TO ACT.
   (A)   A single member of the Town Council, as legislative body, shall not
act for the Town Council to make or issue work assignments, compensation,
grievances, advancement or a performance evaluation without prior authority of
a majority of the entire Town Council, and therefore, without such authority by
the majority, such individual Town Council member will not be in the direct
line of supervision. (Please note the provisions of I.C. 36-4-6-11 and 36-5-2-
9.4).
   (B)   A single member of governing bodies with authority over employees in
the town shall not act for said governing bodies to make or issue work
assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement or a performance evaluation
without prior authority of a majority of the responsible governing body, when a
statute provides the majority is needed to act, and therefore, without such
authority by the majority of said governing body, the single member will not be
in the direct line of supervision.
(Ord. 209, passed 6-26-2012)
§ 31.76 IMPLEMENTATION.
   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the Town of Winfield
are directed and required to cooperate fully in the implementation of the
policies established by this subchapter, and in demonstrating compliance with
these same policies. The policies established hereby shall be incorporated by
reference in the town Personnel Policy Manual, as the same is amended from time
to time, as well as in the Town Ethics Regulations Policy Ordinance, as the
same is amended from time to time.
(Ord. 209, passed 6-26-2012)
§ 31.77 VIOLATION.
   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance and
certifications connected with the nepotism policy is a violation of this
subchapter, as the same may be amended from time to time, and may result in the
discipline, including termination, of an employee or transfer from the direct
line of supervision or other curative action. Any elected or appointed official
or the Town of Winfield who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, compliance and/or mandated certification submission of either
the nepotism policy or the contracting with a unit by a relative policy may be
subject to sanctions, penalties or legal procedures and actions in conformance
with applicable law.
(Ord. 209, passed 6-26-2012)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN POLICIES
Section
Public Records
   
32.01   Reproduction costs and access established
   
32.02   State statute adopted by reference
   
32.03   Commercial use prohibited
   
32.04   Reproduction fees; payment
   
32.05   Town Marshal incident reports, accident reports, photographs, vehicle
identification number checks, video tapes and audio tapes reproduction fees;
payment
Disbursements
   
32.15   Disbursement authority for certain expenses
   
32.16   Council review of preapproved expense payments
Recovery of Costs; Public Fire Protection
   
32.30   Recovering costs of providing water for public fire protection
Bad Debt/Uncollectable Account Receivable Writeoff Policies and Procedures
   
32.45   Established
   
32.46   Definitions
   
32.47   Semi-annual schedule
   
32.48   Statement of collection efforts
   
32.49   Statement of rationale
   
32.50   Presentation to Town Council or Utility Board
   
32.51   Civil action authorized
Returned Check or Draft
   
32.55   Fee for returned check or draft
Erroneous or Irregular Variances, Losses, Shortages and Thefts
   
32.60   Policy
Emergency Medical Services
   
32.70   Emergency medical services
Town Promotion Policy
   
32.80   Town promotion policy
Cross-references:
   Capital asset policy, see
Ch. 35
   Nepotism and contracting with a unit by a relative policies, see §§
31.70 through
31.77
PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 32.01 REPRODUCTION COSTS AND ACCESS ESTABLISHED.
   There is an ordinance establishing town public records access and
reproduction costs.
(Ord. 76, passed 7-18-2000)
§ 32.02 STATE STATUTE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town incorporates herein by reference I.C. 5-14-3-3, as amended from
time to time by the state General Assembly.
(Ord. 76, passed 7-18-2000)
§ 32.03 COMMERCIAL USE PROHIBITED.
   The town now requires that any person who receives any information from the
town on a disk or tape shall not use the information for any commercial
purposes, as defined by I.C. 5-14-3 et seq., or who allows any other person, as
defined by statute, to use the town’s information for these purposes, shall not
be allowed to obtain any further copies or data from the town in the electronic
format. Any other person, as defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2, who violates I.C. 5-14-
3 et seq. and/or this subchapter shall not be allowed to obtain any further
copies of any data from the town in the particular format.
(Ord. 76, passed 7-18-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 32.04 REPRODUCTION FEES; PAYMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding § 32.03, the town shall charge the fees as allowed by
I.C. 5-14 et seq., as amended from time to time, that are listed in division
(B) below for reproducing its public records. The payment for these records
shall be in full and made to the Clerk-Treasurer, prior to the town beginning
any reproduction efforts. The town, by its designated personnel, shall estimate
costs when these costs are not immediately known, which the requestor of the
records shall pay in full and should be able to receive a refund on any unused
funds in a reasonable time frame after the reproductions are done.
   (B)   (1)   Photocopies shall be $.10 per page for copies that are not color
copies or $.25 per page for color copies; or the actual cost to the town of
copying the documents. ACTUAL COST shall mean the cost of paper and the per
page cost for use of copying or facsimile equipment and does not include the
labor costs or overhead costs.
      (2)   Copies of tapes of all public meetings shall be $5 per tape.
(Ord. 76, passed 7-18-2000; Am. Ord. 76-A, passed 5-20-2008; Am. Ord. 76-B,
passed 2-23-2016)
§ 32.05 TOWN MARSHAL INCIDENT REPORTS, ACCIDENT REPORTS, PHOTOGRAPHS, VEHICLE
IDENTIFICATION NUMBER CHECKS, VIDEO TAPES AND AUDIO TAPES REPRODUCTION FEES;
PAYMENT.
   (A)   Fees.
 
Incident reports (non-color)         $.10 per page
Incident reports (color)             $.25 per page
Accident reports                     $25 per report
Photographs                          $7 per photograph
Vehicle identification number checks $5 per check
Video tapes                          $2 per tape
Audio tapes                          $5 per tape
 
   (B)   Fees which are paid to the town for production of accident reports and
vehicle identification number checks shall be paid by the town into the town's
LECEF (Local Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund).
(Ord. 76-B, passed 2-23-2016; Am. Ord. 76-C, passed 7-28-2020)
DISBURSEMENTS
§ 32.15 DISBURSEMENT AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN EXPENSES.
   (A)   The Town Council approves and authorizes claim payments to be made by
the Clerk-Treasurer in advance of formal Council allowance for the following
types of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
         (a)   The United States government; or
         (b)   An agency or political subdivision of the United States
government.
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Federal grant programs, if:
         (a)   Advance funding is not prohibited; or
         (b)   The contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (10)   Payroll; and
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses outlined in division (A) above must be
supported by a fully itemized claim.
   (C)   With the prior written approval of the board having jurisdiction over
allowance of the claim, the town fiscal officer may make claim payments in
advance of formal allowance for those expenses outlined in division (A) above.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to pay such monthly and recurring
statements and bills in the nature of telephone, utility service, payroll,
insurance and other agreements in a time and manner as to avoid late payment
penalties and to report thereon at the Town Council meeting next following said
payment(s).
(Ord. 38, passed 2-18-1998; Am. Ord. 15A, passed 2-17-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to allow disbursements for lawful town purposes, see P.L. 32-1992
and I.C. 36-5-4-12
§ 32.16 COUNCIL REVIEW OF PREAPPROVED EXPENSE PAYMENTS.
   The Town Council, as town legislative body, or the board having jurisdiction
over allowance of the claim, shall review and allow the claim at the body’s or
board’s next regular or special meeting following the preapproved payment of
the expense.
(Ord. 38, passed 2-18-1998)
RECOVERY OF COSTS; PUBLIC FIRE PROTECTION
§ 32.30 RECOVERING COSTS OF PROVIDING WATER FOR PUBLIC FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1-2-103(d), the costs for the production, storage,
transmission, sale, delivery, and furnishing of water for public fire
protection purposes (public fire costs) shall be included in the basic rates
and charges of all customers of Indiana-American located within the town in the
manner and to the extent permitted by such statute.
   (B)   Effective upon the date of this change in the manner of recovering
public fire costs, Indiana-American shall cease directly billing the town or
its designee for public fire costs.
   (C)   Notwithstanding this change in the recovery of public fire costs, the
construction cost of any fire hydrants installed at the request of the town
shall continue to be paid for by or on behalf of the town.
   (D)   The change in the method of recovering public fire costs contained in
I.C. 8-1-2-103(d) shall be effective upon the first day of the first month
following approval by the IURC of a new schedule of rates implementing the
change. Indiana-American is requested to file such revised rate schedules with
the IURC within a reasonable time after being notified of the final passage of
this section.
   (E)   Notice of the adoption of this section and a copy of this section
shall be provided by the Clerk of the town to Indiana-American.
(Ord. 100, passed 8-20-2002)
BAD DEBT/UNCOLLECTABLE ACCOUNT RECEIVABLE WRITEOFF POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
§ 32.45 ESTABLISHED.
   The following, as set forth in §§
32.45 through
32.51, shall constitute the bad debt/uncollectable account receivable writeoff
policies and procedures for the town and any town utility operation: In the
event that accounts receivable under this subchapter, as amended from time to
time, are not paid within the time fixed by the town or a town agency,
department, or utility, the same shall be deemed delinquent. A penalty of 10%
of the amount to the account receivable shall attach as delinquent fees.
(Ord. 185, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 32.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise or requires a different meaning.
   FINAL ACCOUNT. A delinquent account receivable for which the town, town
agency, department, or utility has reasonably and diligently attempted
collection, but in which such collection remains unsuccessful.
(Ord. 185, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 32.47 SEMI-ANNUAL SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The town, town agency, department, or utility shall prepare a semi-
annual schedule of final accounts.
   (B)   The semi-annual schedule shall consist of the following:
      (1)   All final accounts which are at least 120 days delinquent; and
      (2)   All final accounts which the town, town agency, department, or
utility has determined to be uncollectable.
(Ord. 185, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 32.48 STATEMENT OF COLLECTION EFFORTS.
   The town, town agency, department, or utility shall generate a statement
setting forth the efforts that have been made to collect final accounts and a
statement that such efforts have been unsuccessful.
(Ord. 185, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 32.49 STATEMENT OF RATIONALE.
   The town, town agency, department, or utility shall produce a statement,
including the reasons therefore, that the town, town agency, department, or
utility believes it is economically not feasible to pursue collection measures
on the specified account(s).
(Ord. 185, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 32.50 PRESENTATION TO TOWN COUNCIL OR UTILITY BOARD.
   The semi-annual schedule described in §
32.47, the statement described in §
32.48, and the statement described in §
32.49 shall be submitted to the Town Council or Utility Board, which by
resolution may declare said accounts listed as uncollectable and may authorize
the town, town agency, department, or utility to cease further collection
procedures and expense the amounts outstanding as bad debts.
(Ord. 185, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 32.51 CIVIL ACTION AUTHORIZED.
   The town, town agency, department, or utility may attempt to recover the
amount of the bad debt in a civil action against the debtor.
(Ord. 185, passed 10-20-2009)
RETURNED CHECK OR DRAFT
§ 32.55 FEE FOR RETURNED CHECK OR DRAFT.
   The fee for a returned check or draft is as follows. Any person or firm
presenting a check or draft which is returned to the Town of Winfield marked
"Unpaid" or "NSF" shall be assessed an additional sum which shall be added to
the fee or bill for which the "Unpaid" check or draft was presented. Said
charge shall be any protest fee charged to the Town of Winfield and $27.50 or
5% of the face amount of the check or draft, whichever is greater, not to
exceed $250.
(Ord. 193, passed 7-20-2010)
ERRONEOUS OR IRREGULAR VARIANCES, LOSSES, SHORTAGES AND THEFTS
§ 32.60 POLICY.
   (A)   Established. The Town Council hereby establishes a policy for the town
regarding erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages, and thefts,
consistent with current applicable law.
      (1)   Purpose. This policy is intended to comply with the provisions of
I.C. 5-11-1-27, and State Examiner Directive 2015-6 issued November 18, 2015,
each as currently in effect, or as amended hereafter from time to time.
      (2)   Materiality threshold.
         (a)   The materiality threshold for the town shall be $100. If the
erroneous or irregular variance, loss, shortage or theft is not cash or a cash-
equivalent, the value of the item at the time of the variance, loss, shortage
or theft shall be used to determine whether the materiality threshold has been
met.
         (b)   All erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages, or
thefts of $100 or more, shall be reported immediately to the State of Indiana
Board of Accounts. In addition, all erroneous or irregular variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts which occur more than four times in a month and which in
the aggregate total the amount of $200 or more, shall be reported immediately
to the State of Indiana Board of Accounts.
      (3)   Knowledge of misappropriation. A public officer who has knowledge
of or reasonable cause to believe that there has been a misappropriation of
public funds or assets of the public office shall immediately send written
notice of the misappropriation to the State of Indiana Board of Accounts and
the Office of the Lake County Prosecuting Attorney.
      (4)   Maintenance of documentation. The town shall maintain records and
documentation concerning erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages,
or thefts in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and the
required internal control standards established as required by the State of
Indiana Board of Accounts.
      (5)   Resolution of incidents not meeting the materiality threshold. The
town shall immediately, upon discovery, investigate all erroneous or irregular
variances, losses, shortages or thefts, regardless of whether such meet the
materiality threshold established by this town policy. Upon conclusion of each
such investigation, the town shall:
         (a)   Implement procedures designed to prevent the recurrence of such
incidents; and
         (b)   Take appropriate disciplinary action against the employee(s)/
town official(s) responsible for the incident.
   (B)   Distribution/communication of policy.
      (1)   The Town Administrator and Clerk-Treasurer are hereby directed to
copy the within established policy to all town employees, with said employees
to acknowledge receipt of same by signature execution thereof.
      (2)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to communicate the
within established town policy to the State of Indiana Board of Accounts, State
Examiner, or any and all other jurisdictional bodies and authorities to whom
such notice of adoption should be provided, including the State of Indiana
Board of Accounts, among others.
(Ord. 257, passed 2-23-2016)
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
§ 32.70 EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES.
   (A)   For the use of emergency medical services rendered and provided by the
Lakes of the Four Seasons Volunteer Fire Force, ("LOFSVFD"), included in the
agreement between the town and LOFSVFD, the following fees and charges shall
hereinafter be charged and collected from residents and non-residents of the
town, as defined herein, benefitting and receiving the same, and shall be
payable as hereinafter provided and in an amount determinable as follows:
 
Service                                      Resident Rate** Non-Resident Rate*
Basic Life Support (BLS) - Transportation by
ground ambulance vehicle and the provision
of medically necessary supplies and
services, including BLS ambulance services
as defined by the state. The ambulance must  $725.00         $905.00
be staffed by an individual who is qualified
in accordance with applicable state and
local laws as an emergency medical
technician-basic (EMT-Basic).
Advanced Life Support, Level 1 (ALS1) -
Transportation by ground ambulance vehicle
and the provision of medically necessary     $925.00         $1,225.00
supplies and services including the
provision of an ALS assessment or at least
one ALS intervention.
Advanced Life Support, Level 2 (ALS2) -
Transportation by ground ambulance vehicle
and the provisions of medically necessary
supplies and services including: (1) at
least three separate administration of one
or more medications by intravenous push/
bolus or by continuous infusion (excluding
crystalloid fluids); or (2) ground ambulance
transport, medically necessary supplies and
services, and the provisions of at least one $1,100.00       $1,350.00
of the ALS2 procedures listed below:
a.   Manual defibrillation/cardioversion;
b.   Endotracheal intubation;
c.   Central venous line;
d.   Cardiac pacing;
e.   Chest decompression;
f.   Surgical airway; or
g.   Intraosseous line.
 
Mileage - total miles traveled by the
ambulance with a patient/injured person
physically on board the ambulance whenever   $16.00 per mile $16.00 per mile
transport to the hospital is made.
 
ALS Treatment No Transport Fee               $175.00         $175.00
BLS Treatment No Transport Fee               $350.00         $350.00
 
*Non-Resident is defined as a person who lives outside of the corporate
boundaries of any unit of local government under contract for the same or
similar services provided by LOFSVFD to the town pursuant to agreement and as
set forth in this subchapter now, and as amended hereafter, from time to time.
** Resident is defined as a person who lives within the town's municipal
corporate boundaries, or within the boundaries of any unit of local government
under contract or agreement with the LOFSVFD for provision of the same or
substantially similar services.
   (B)   All billings not paid within 30 days of the billing shall accrue
interest at the rate of 1% per month on the unpaid balance, which shall be
known as a late fee. The date which the original bill was provided to the
individual(s) receiving emergency services shall be known as the billing date.
In the event that a balance remains unpaid after 90 days from the billing date,
the amount may be referred for legal collection proceedings to begin. In the
event that it is necessary to file a lawsuit to collect unpaid billings,
authorization is hereby made to collect court costs and reasonable attorney
fees, in addition to all other fees stated herein.
   (C)   The fees and charges established herein for the use of Emergency
Medical Services rendered and provided by the Lakes of Four Seasons Fire Force
shall be the fees and charges for the current year, and through December 31,
2022. Thereafter, for each calendar year, the fees and charges established
herein shall increase by 3% for that calendar year. The LOFSVFD shall present
its next annual year schedule of increased fees and charges on or before
December 1 of the then-present year for the next succeeding year to the Town
Council for revision and approval consideration. Upon approval, which shall be
at the sole discretion of the Town Council, such presented increased schedule
of fees and charges shall be effective as of January 1 of the next succeeding
year, or at such other schedule increase date as the Town Council deems
appropriate. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall present the increased schedule of
fees and charges authorized by the Town Council to be appended hereto. The Town
Council retains the authority to discontinue, terminate, or stay the annual
increase of fees and charges at any time it deems appropriate and in the best
interests of the town.
(Ord. 229-A, passed 8-22-2017; Am. Ord. 229-B, passed 5-14-2019; Am. Ord. 229-
C, passed 8-25-2020; Am. Ord. 229-D, passed 9-28-2021)
TOWN PROMOTION POLICY
§ 32.80 TOWN PROMOTION POLICY.
   (A)   That in order to promote, with the highest degree of transparency and
clarity, economic development and tourism for the Town of Winfield, and
consistent with the provisions of each of I.C. §§ 36-1-3 et seq., as well as
I.C. § 36-7-2-7, both as amended from time to time, there is hereby established
a town promotion policy and procedure in the Town of Winfield. Further,
pursuant to the aforementioned applicable statutory authority in the Indiana
Code, there is further established a town promotions appropriation in the town
general fund for promotion of economic development and tourism, and all related
town business, as authorized by applicable law, and as set forth more
specifically in division (B) hereinafter.
   (B)   That the Town Council hereby authorizes the budgeting and
appropriations of funds from the general fund to pay the expense of or to
reimburse town officials for expenses incurred in promoting the best interests
of the Town of Winfield. Such expenses may include, but are not necessarily
limited to, rental of meeting places, meals, decorations, memorabilia, awards,
expenses incurred in promoting industrial, commercial and residential
development, expenses incurred in developing relations with other units of
local government, and any other expenses of a civic or governmental nature
deemed by the Town Council to be in the best interests of the Town of Winfield,
its residents and taxpayers.
   (C)   That the Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized and directed to
take all necessary and required actions to effectuate the establishment of a
town promotion policy and procedures, as well as to establish a town promotions
appropriation in the town general fund for promotion of economic development
and tourism in the town, as well as related to expenses incurred in promoting
the best interests of the town as specified hereinabove.
(Ord. 286, passed 8-28-2018)
CHAPTER 33: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
33.01   Establishment; statutory authority
   
33.02   Enforcement authority
   
33.03   Administration authority
   
33.04   Penalty schedule
   
33.05   Report of failure to comply required
   
33.06   Collection of fines; accounting
   
33.07   Payment not a judgement
   
33.08   Ordinance adoption; notice required for enforcement
§ 33.01 ESTABLISHMENT; STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the Ordinance Violations Bureau.
   (B)   Under I.C. 33-36-2-1, the town may establish an Ordinance Violations
Bureau.
(Ord. 83, passed 9-19-2000)
§ 33.02 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The enforcement of this chapter can be by any town official or his or her
agent.
(Ord. 83, passed 9-19-2000)
§ 33.03 ADMINISTRATION AUTHORITY.
   The Clerk-Treasurer will be the administrator of the Bureau.
(Ord. 83, passed 9-19-2000)
§ 33.04 PENALTY SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Under I.C. 33-36-3-1, the town must establish a schedule whereby the
violations subject to penalties and the specific amount of each penalty are set
forth for any violators who wish to admit to a violation.
   (B)   The schedule of ordinance violations subject to the jurisdiction of
the Ordinance Violations Bureau will be set forth by the town as is necessary
and in the discretion of the Town Council.
   (C)   The schedule of ordinance violations and fines is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated into this code as if set forth in full herein.
(Ord. 83, passed 9-19-2000)
§ 33.05 REPORT OF FAILURE TO COMPLY REQUIRED.
   Under I.C. 33-36-3-5, if a person denies an ordinance or code violation,
fails to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk after having
entered an admission of violation, or fails to deny or admit to a violation
under any penalty ordinance, then the Clerk shall report this fact to the
appropriate town official responsible for prosecuting ordinance violations.
(Ord. 83, passed 9-19-2000)
§ 33.06 COLLECTION OF FINES; ACCOUNTING.
   Under I.C. 33-36-3-7, all sums collected for ordinance violations by the
Violations Clerk shall be accounted for and paid to the municipal corporation
as provided by law.
(Ord. 83, passed 9-19-2000)
§ 33.07 PAYMENT NOT A JUDGEMENT.
   Under I.C. 33-36-3-6, an ordinance violation admitted under this chapter
does not constitute a judgment for the purposes of I.C. 33-37, and an ordinance
violation costs fee may not be collected from the defendant under I.C. 33-37-4.
(Ord. 83, passed 9-19-2000)
§ 33.08 ORDINANCE ADOPTION; NOTICE REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   An ordinance, order, or resolution passed by the town is considered
adopted when it is signed by the town executive. If required by statute, an
adopted ordinance, order, or resolution must be promulgated or published before
it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation must,
before it takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-1,
unless:
      (1)   It is published under division (C); or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in one public place in each district in the town.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E), if a town publishes any of its
ordinances in book or pamphlet form, no other publication is required. If an
ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation is published
under this division, it takes effect two week after the publication of the book
or pamphlet. Publication under this division, if authorized by the legislative
body, constitutes presumptive evidence:
      (1)   Of the ordinances in the book or pamphlet;
      (2)   Of the date of adoption of the ordinances; and
      (3)   That the ordinances have been properly signed, attested, recorded,
and approved.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a zoning ordinance or amendment to a
zoning ordinance, or a resolution approving a comprehensive plan, that is
adopted under I.C. 36-7.
   (E)   An ordinance increasing a building permit fee on new development must:
      (1)   Be published:
         (a)   One time in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1; and
         (b)   Not later than 30 days after the ordinance is adopted by the
legislative body in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1; and
      (2)   Delay the implementation of the fee increase for 90 days after the
date the ordinance is published under subdivision (1).
(I.C. 36-5-2-10) (Ord. 83, passed 9-19-2000)
CHAPTER 34: FUNDS
Section
   
34.01   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
34.02   Cumulative Firefighting Building and Equipment Fund
   
34.03   Town of Winfield Major Moves Construction Fund
   
34.04   Adjusted Gross Income Tax Special Revenue Non-Reverting Fund
   
34.05   County Economic Development Income Tax (CEDIT) Special Revenue Non-
Reverting Fund
   
34.06   Local Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund
   
34.07   Rainy Day Fund
   
34.08   Town Department of Waterworks Rainy Day Fund
   
34.09   Local Option Income Tax (LOIT) Special Distribution Fund
   
34.10   ARPA Local Fiscal Recovery Grant Fund
   
34.11   Opioid unrestricted Soecial Revenue Non-Reverting Fund
   
34.12   Opioid Restricted Special Revenue Non-Reverting Fund
Cross reference:
   Stormwater Fund, see §
53.07
§ 34.01 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby re-established and/or continued a Cumulative Capital
Development Fund (CCDF) for the town.
   (B)   An ad valorem property tax levy will be imposed upon all taxable real
and personal property within the taxing district of the town, with the property
tax revenues collected from said levy to be retained and deposited into the
CCDF in conformance with applicable law.
   (C)   The maximum rates of levy for the CCDF will not exceed $.05 per $100
of assessed valuation, payable in 2023, and thereafter.
   (D)   The CCDF shall remain in full force and effect until it is rescinded,
repealed or abolished in conformance with applicable lawful procedures.
   (E)   The funds collected, deposited, and accumulated in the CCDF will be
used for the following purposes:
      (1)   To construct such streets, alleys, sidewalks, or thoroughfares as
required and to maintain the same, and further, to fund any and all related
purposes consistent thereto;
      (2)   To purchase, lease, or pay all or part of the purchase price of
motor vehicles for the use of the Police and Fire Departments, either, or
including, ambulance and firefighting vehicles with all necessary equipment;
      (3)   Any and all other purposes allowed by I.C. 36-9-15.5-2.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the purposes for the use of the CCDF set forth in this
section, the property tax funds collected, deposited and accumulated in the
CCDF may be expended for purposes other than those purposes specifically set
forth herein if the purpose is to protect the public health, welfare, or safety
in an emergency situation that demands and requires immediate action. The CCDF
funds of the town may be utilized under the authority of this division (F) only
after the Town Council, as legislative body, and the Town Council President
declare that the public health, welfare, or safety is in immediate danger that
requires the expenditure of CCDF funds collected, deposited, and accumulated
for such emergency purposes.
(Ord. 77, passed 7-18-2000; Am. Ord. 192, passed 7-29-2010; Am. Ord. 295,
passed 2-26-2019; Am. Ord. 304, passed 2-25-2020; Am. Ord. 315, passed 3-9-
2021; Am. Ord. 327, passed 4-12-2022)
§ 34.02 CUMULATIVE FIREFIGHTING BUILDING AND EQUIPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is established a town Cumulative Firefighting Building and
Equipment Fund under I.C. 36-8-14.
   (B)   An ad valorem property tax levy will be imposed and the revenues from
the levy will be retained in the town’s Cumulative Firefighting Building and
Equipment Fund.
   (C)   The proposed rate will not exceed $0.0333 on each $100 of assessed
valuation. Further, that said tax rate will be levied beginning with taxes for
Y2016 payable Y2017.
   (D)   The funds accumulated in the town’s Cumulative Firefighting Building
and Equipment Fund will be used for those purposes established and allowable.
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (D) above, funds accumulated in the town’s
Cumulative Firefighting Building and Equipment Fund may be spent for purposes
other than the purposes stated in division (D), if the purpose is to protect
the public health, welfare, or safety in an emergency situation which demands
immediate action. Money may be spent under the authority of this division only
after the Town Council President issues a declaration that the public health,
welfare, or safety is in immediate danger that requires the expenditure of
money in the Fund.
   (F)   This Fund takes effect upon approval of the State Board of Tax
Commissioners.
(Ord. 78, passed 7-18-2000; Am. Ord. 78 A, passed 7-16-2002; Am. Ord. 78-B,
passed 6-28-2016)
§ 34.03 TOWN OF WINFIELD MAJOR MOVES CONSTRUCTION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Town of Winfield Major Moves
Construction Fund which shall be a Special Revenue Fund under the rules,
regulations, and requirements of applicable state law, including the Indiana
Code, as amended from time to time, as well as the administrative rules and
requirements of the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
   (B)   Any monies received from the Major Moves Construction Fund
distribution from the Auditor of Lake County, Indiana, shall be deposited into
the Town of Winfield Major Moves Construction Fund.
   (C)   The monies deposited into the Town of Winfield Major Moves
Construction Fund shall be utilized and expended only for the purposes set
forth in I.C. 8-14-16-5.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized and directed to take all appropriate
and required steps to establish said Town of Winfield Major Moves Construction
Fund in conformance and compliance with all applicable law, as amended from
time to time.
   (E)   All existing Town Code sections and ordinances, or parts thereof, in
conflict with the provisions of this section, are hereby deemed null, void, and
of no legal effect, and are specifically repealed.
(Ord. 149, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 34.04 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME TAX SPECIAL REVENUE NON-REVERTING FUND.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby establishes the Town Adjusted Gross Income Tax
Special Revenue Non-Reverting Fund (hereinafter the “Fund”), for the deposit,
distribution and utilization of the public safety county adjusted gross income
tax imposed, collected and distributed to the town pursuant to the provisions
of I.C. 6-3.5-1.1-25, which fund shall be a Special Revenue Non-Reverting Fund.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer, upon receipt of distribution of the Lake
County public safety county adjusted gross income tax funds distributed to the
town pursuant to the applicable provisions of I.C. 6-3.5-1.1-25, shall deposit
the funds into the Town Adjusted Gross Income Tax Special Revenue Non-Reverting
Fund established hereby for the purpose of continuing to carry out or provide
at least one public safety purpose pursuant to the provisions of the I.C. 6-
3.5-1.1-25(a). Further, the funds deposited into the Town Adjusted Gross Income
Tax Special Revenue Non-Reverting Fund shall be appropriated and utilized for
the public safety purposes permitted, as set forth in I.C. 6-3.5-1.1-25(a), as
amended from time to time.
   (C)   Deposits and funds in the Town Adjusted Gross Income Tax Fund Special
Revenue Non-Reverting Fund shall not revert to the General Fund at the end of
each calendar year, but shall remain in the Town Adjusted Gross Income Tax
Special Revenue Non-Reverting Fund, as permitted by applicable law.
   (D)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is directed and authorized to take all
necessary and appropriate actions to establish and account for the funds
collected from the public safety county adjusted gross income tax distributed
to the town by the Lake County Auditor for the purpose and uses of carrying out
or providing at least one public safety purpose pursuant to the provisions of
I.C. 6-3.5-1.1-25(a), all in conformance with applicable law.
(Ord. 230, passed 1-28-2014)
§ 34.05 COUNTY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX (CEDIT) SPECIAL REVENUE NON-
REVERTING FUND.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby establishes the Town County Economic
Development Income Tax (CEDIT) Special Revenue Non-Reverting Fund (hereinafter
the “Fund”), for the deposit, distribution and utilization of the county
economic development income tax imposed, collected and distributed to the town
by the Auditor of Lake County, Indiana, pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 6-
3.5-7-1 et seq., as amended, which fund shall be a Special Revenue Non-
Reverting Fund.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer, upon receipt of distribution of the county
public economic development income tax (CEDIT) funds distributed to the town
pursuant to the applicable provisions of I.C. 6-3.5-7-1 et seq., shall deposit
the funds into the Town County Economic Development Income Tax (CEDIT) Special
Revenue Non-Reverting Fund established hereby for use for economic development
in the town pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 6-3.5-7-1 et seq., as amended.
Further, the funds deposited into the Town County Economic Development Income
Tax (CEDIT) Special Revenue Non-Reverting Fund shall be appropriated and
utilized for the economic development purposes permitted, as set forth in I.C.
6-3.5-7-13.1(b), as amended from time to time.
   (C)   Deposits and funds in the Town County Economic Development Income Tax
(CEDIT) Special Revenue Non-Reverting Fund shall not revert to the General Fund
at the end of each calendar year, but shall remain in the Town County Economic
Development Income Tax (CEDIT) Special Revenue Non-Reverting Fund, as permitted
by applicable law.
   (D)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is directed and authorized to take all
necessary and appropriate actions to establish and account for the funds
collected from the county economic development income tax (CEDIT) distributed
to the town by the Lake County Auditor for the purposes and uses of economic
development in the town pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 6-3.5-7-13.1(b), all
in conformance with applicable law.
(Ord. 231, passed 1-28-2014)
§ 34.06 LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT CONTINUING EDUCATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fund to be known as the town "Local Law
Enforcement Continuing Education Fund" (LECEF) for the purpose of providing
continuing legal education, and law enforcement training for law enforcement
officers of the town.
   (B)   The town LECEF shall be funded by fees collected by the Office of the
Town Marshal, as identified in I.C. 5-2-8-2, as amended from time to time,
which include the following activities:
      (1)   Vehicle identification number inspections;
      (2)   Preparation of accident reports;
      (3)   Costs and fees collected by the town for deferral/pretrial
diversion programs; and
      (4)   Handgun application licensing.
   (C)   Before any of the funds under this section are spent, the same must be
first appropriated as required under applicable law, as amended from time to
time.
   (D)   The funds accumulated in the town LECEF shall be used for the purpose
of continuing education and training of law enforcement officers of the town.
All expenditures must comply with the terms and provisions of I.C. 5-2-8-2, as
amended from time to time, and must be approved by the Town Marshal.
   (E)   The funds deposited into the town LECEF may not be withdrawn except
for the purpose(s) set forth herein, so long as this section remains in full
force and effect.
(Ord. 256, passed 2-23-2016)
§ 34.07 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a "Rainy Day Fund" for the Town of
Winfield pursuant to the applicable provisions of I.C. § 36-1-8-5.1, et seq.,
as amended hereafter from time to time. The established Town Rainy Day Fund may
be used to receive transfers of unused and unencumbered funds raised by a
general or special tax levy on taxable property within the town whenever the
purpose of such tax levy has been fulfilled and an unused and unencumbered
balance remains, as well as for all other funds/transfers and uses as permitted
by the applicable provisions of I.C. § 36-1-8-5.1, et seq., and any and all
other applicable statutory authority, as amended hereafter from time to time.
The Clerk-Treasurer shall establish the Town Rainy Day Fund consistent with the
enabling authority of I.C. § 36-1-8-5.1 and the rules, regulations, and
requirements of the Indiana State Board of Accounts, each as amended hereafter
from time to time.
   (B)   The Rainy Day Fund established hereby is a non-reverting fund, as
recognized by applicable law and the rules, regulations, and requirements of
the Indiana State Board of Accounts, as each are amended hereafter from time to
time. The Rainy Day Fund Account funds shall be used only as permitted by the
provisions of I.C. § 36-1-8-5.1, and as approved and agreed upon by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 260, passed 5-24-2016)
§ 34.08 TOWN DEPARTMENT OF WATERWORKS RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a “Rainy Day Fund” for the Town of
Winfield Department of Waterworks and Board of Waterworks, pursuant to the
applicable provisions of I.C. § 36-1-8-5.1, et seq., as amended hereafter from
time to time. The established Town Department of Waterworks Rainy Day Fund may
be used to receive transfers of unused and unencumbered funds raised by a
general or special tax levy on taxable property within the Town Municipal Water
Utility District served by the Department of Waterworks and Board of
Waterworks, whenever the purpose of such tax levy has been fulfilled and an
unused and unencumbered balance remains, as well as for all other funds/
transfers and uses as permitted by the applicable provisions of I.C. § 36-1-8-
5.1, et seq., and any and all other applicable statutory authority, as amended
hereafter from time to time. The Clerk-Treasurer shall establish the Town
Department of Waterworks Rainy Day Fund consistent with the enabling authority
of I.C. § 36-1-8-5.1 and the rules, regulations, and requirements of the
Indiana State Board of Accounts, each as amended hereafter from time to time.
   (B)   The Rainy Day Fund established hereby is a non-reverting fund, as
recognized by applicable law and the rules, regulations, and requirements of
the Indiana State Board of Accounts, as each are amended hereafter from time to
time. The Town Department of Waterworks Rainy Day Fund Account funds shall be
used only as permitted by the provisions of I.C. § 36-1-8-5.1, and as approved
and agreed upon by the Town Council and/or the Board of Directors of the Town
Department of Waterworks in conformance with applicable law.
(Ord. 261, passed 5-24-2016)
§ 34.09 LOCAL INCOME TAX (LOIT) SPECIAL DISTRIBUTION FUND.
   (A)   That the Town Council hereby establishes a Local Option Income Tax
(LOIT) Y2016 Special Distribution Fund, as a special revenue non-reverting fund
pursuant to the applicable rules and regulations of the State of Indiana Board
of Accounts, if necessary and applicable, for deposit of a one-time Y2016 LOIT
Special Distribution amount received, or to be received, by the Town of
Winfield, consistent with recently promulgated SEA 67 in the last session just
concluded of the Indiana General Assembly. The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby
authorized and directed to establish the account required to be established as
set forth herein, consistent with the requirements for such established by the
Indiana State Board of Accounts, including the establishment of a Y2016 LOIT
Special Distribution Fund for deposit of the aforesaid LOIT Y2016 Special
Distribution.
   (B)   That the one-time LOIT Y2016 Special Distribution received by the town
shall be deposited into said established Fund, with at least 75% of said
receipted Special Distribution funds to be deposited in the newly established
LOIT Y2016 Special Distribution Fund, with the balance of said one-time LOIT
Y2016 Special Distribution, if any, to be available for use by the town for any
purpose deemed appropriate. The 75% or greater portion of said one-time LOIT
Y2016 Special Distribution received shall be used exclusively for
infrastructure as specified by the provisions of I.C. § 6-3.6-9-17(h)(1)(a), as
amended from time to time, and the balance, if any, may be used for any purpose
deemed appropriate by the town.
(Ord. 258, passed 5-24-2016)
§ 34.10 ARPA LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY GRANT FUND.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby acknowledges receipt of notification that the
town will be allocated grant funds from the American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA); as
a consequence of same, the Town Council hereby establishes the ARPA Local
Fiscal Recovery Grant Fund in conformance with the provisions of applicable
law.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby directs that all funds allocated to the town
from the American Rescue Plan (ARP), upon receipt, shall be deposited into the
newly established Fund for receipt of same, and use thereafter, consistent with
the express and verified purposes of the ARPA. The Town Clerk-Treasurer is
hereby directed and authorized to so establish the Fund in conformance with
applicable state and federal law. The Clerk-Treasurer shall further deposit any
grant funds received from the ARPA into the newly established Fund for eligible
and permitted uses consistent with the ARPA requirement.
   (C)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer, upon receipt of ARPA grant funds, shall
process additional appropriation proceedings as appropriate and required. Funds
deposited into the ARPA Local Fiscal Recovery Grant Fund shall be used for any
lawful purpose, but only upon the Town Attorney, Town Financial Advisor, and
Town Clerk-Treasurer concurring in the eligibility of proposed use of such
funds as presented for compliance with the ARPA's Grant Program Law. The Town
Clerk-Treasurer is further directed to maintain the requisite and legally
required detail of fund usage and expenditures in conformance with applicable
law, and to segregate said fund for purposes of audit hereafter by the State
Board of Accounts, or any other legal audit agency or entity.
(Ord. 316, passed 4-13-2021)
§ 34.11 OPIOID UNRESTRICTED SPECIAL REVENUE NON-REVERTING FUND.
   (A)   An Opioid Unrestricted Special Revenue Non-Reverting Fund is hereby
established for the deposit of funds received by the town from the state
pursuant to the litigation settlement agreement by the state with
pharmaceutical companies. The funds deposited in Opioid Unrestricted Special
Revenue Non-Reverting Fund shall be used in the same manner as monies in the
General Fund.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall account for, maintain records of
deposits and expenditures, and comply with all rules, regulations, and
requirements of the State Board of Accounts for Fund Management, including
reporting of same, all consistent with the rules, regulations, and requirements
of the State Board of Accounts, as same are amended from time to time.
   (C)   At the end of each budget/calendar year, monies remaining in the
Opioid Unrestricted Special Revenue Non-Reverting Fund shall remain in the
Fund, and no funds therein shall revert to the General Fund, in conformance
with applicable state law for such funds.
(Ord. 342, passed 1-24-2023)
§ 34.12 OPIOID RESTRICTED SPECIAL REVENUE NON-REVERTING FUND.
   (A)   An Opioid Restricted Special Revenue Non-Reverting Fund is hereby
established for the deposit of funds received by the town from the state
pursuant to the opioid litigation settlement agreement by the state with
pharmaceutical companies. The funds deposited in Opioid Unrestricted Special
Revenue Non-Reverting Fund (Fund 2257) shall be used for purposes permitted by
the opioid litigation settlement agreement in the same manner as monies in the
General Fund, as specified in the aforesaid settlement for opioid remediation.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall account for, maintain records of
deposits and expenditures, and comply with all rules, regulations, and
requirements of the State Board of Accounts for Fund Management, including
reporting of same, all consistent with the rules, regulations, and requirements
of the State Board of Accounts, as same are amended from time to time.
   (C)   At the end of each budget/calendar year, monies remaining in the Town
Opioid Restricted Special Revenue Non-Reverting Fund (Fund 2257) shall remain
in the Fund, and no funds therein shall revert to the General Fund, for usage
consistent with the purposes established for the Fund 2257 usage in the opioid
litigation settlement agreement, and in conformance with applicable state law
for such funds.
(Ord. 343, passed 1-24-2023)
CHAPTER 35: CAPITAL ASSET POLICY
Section
   
35.01   General information
   
35.02   Definitions
   
35.03   Specific capitalization provisions
   
35.04   Recording and accounting
   
35.05   Safeguarding of assets
Cross-reference:
   Nepotism and contracting with a unit by a relative policies, see §§
31.70 through
31.77
   Town policies, see
Ch. 32
§ 35.01 GENERAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   This fixed asset capitalization policy is being implemented effective
retroactively to January 1, 2003. The policy is being implemented to document
the minimum value of capital assets to be reported on the town's financial
reports and shall include infrastructure assets. The implementation of a policy
statement is related to the implementation of the reporting model, Government
Accounting Standards Board Statement 34.
   (B)   The town hereby establishes a Capital Asset Policy in order to provide
a higher degree of control over its investment in capital assets, and to be
able to demonstrate accountability to its various constituencies: citizens,
rate-payers, oversight bodies and regulators.
   (C)   The purposes for establishing this Capital Asset Policy are as
follows:
      (1)   To safeguard the investments of the citizens of the town;
      (2)   To fix responsibility for the custody of equipment;
      (3)   To provide a basis for formulating capital asset acquisition,
maintenance and retirement policies;
      (4)   To provide data for financial reporting;
      (5)   To demonstrate appropriate stewardship responsibility for public
assets.
   (D)   This Policy will only serve to classify capital assets, including
fixed and infrastructure, for accuracy in financial reporting through the
Indiana State Board of Accounts. It does not include data processing,
programming requirements, or computer operations procedures.
(Ord. 154, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 35.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL LEASE. Leased equipment will be capitalized if the lease agreement
meets any one of the following criteria:
      (1)   The lease transfers ownership of the property to the lessee by the
end of the lease term;
      (2)   The lease contains a bargain purchase option;
      (3)   The lease term is equal to 75% of the estimated economic life of
the leased property;
      (4)   The present value of the minimum lease payments at the inception of
the lease, excluding any executory costs, equals at least 90% of the fair value
of the leased property.
   CAPITAL OUTLAYS. Expenditures which benefit both the current and future
fiscal periods. This includes costs of acquiring land or structures;
construction or improvement of buildings, structures or other fixed assets; and
equipment purchases having an appreciable and calculable period of usefulness.
   ENTERPRISE FUNDS. A fund established to finance and account for the
acquisition, operation, and maintenance of governmental facilities and services
which are entirely or predominately self-supporting by user charges. The
enterprise funds of the town would include any municipally owned sewage and/or
stormwater utilities. Operation of these utilities shall require enterprise
fund accounting and reporting.
   FIXED ASSETS. Tangible assets of a durable nature employed in the operating
activities of the town and that are relatively permanent and are needed for the
production or sale of goods or services are termed property, plant and
equipment or fixed assets. These assets are not held for sale in the ordinary
course of business. This broad group is usually separated in classes according
to the physical characteristics of the items (i.e. land, buildings,
improvements other than buildings, machinery and equipment, furniture and
fixtures).
   HISTORICAL COST. The cash equivalent price exchanged for goods reflects the
current fair market value of the asset on the date of acquisition. Land,
buildings, equipment, and most inventories are common examples of items
recognized under the Historical Cost attribute.
   TANGIBLE ASSETS. The distinguishing characteristics of assets in this
category are that they have physical substance and are generally held for
productive use in the business operation.
(Ord. 154, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 35.03 SPECIFIC CAPITALIZATION PROVISIONS.
   The following capitalization policy provisions shall apply for each form or
type of specific assets identified, namely:
   (A)   Land.
      (1)   The town will capitalize all land purchases, regardless of cost,
excluding the acquisition of easements, or right-of-way for infrastructure.
Examples of infrastructure include roads and streets, street light systems,
bridges, overpasses, sidewalks, curbs, parking meters, street signs, and storm
water collection.
      (2)   Original cost of land will include the full value given to the
seller, including any relocation, legal services incidental to the purchase
(including title work and opinion), appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying
and costs for preparing the land for its intended purpose including contractors
and/or town workers (salary and benefits), such as demolition of buildings,
excavating, clean up, and/or inspection.
      (3)   The town will record donated land at fair market value on the date
of transfer plus any associated costs.
      (4)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
   (B)   Machinery and equipment.
      (1)   This category may include a wide variety of items, including all
types of machinery, furniture, fixtures, vehicles, tools, computers and office
equipment. Machinery and equipment will generally stand alone; however, in some
instances it may become an integral part of a building.
      (2)   The town will capitalize items with an individual value equal to or
greater than $5,000. Machinery combined with other machinery to form one unit
with a total value greater than the above mentioned limit will be one unit.
      (3)   Shipping charges, consultant fees, and any other cost directly
associated with the purchase, delivery, or set up, including contractors and/or
town workers (salary and benefits), which makes such equipment operable for its
intended purpose will be capitalized.
      (4)   Improvements or renovations to existing machinery and equipment
will be capitalized only if the result of the change meets all the following
conditions:
         (a)   Total costs exceeds $5,000; and,
         (b)   The improvement or renovation extends the item's economic life
more than one year.
      (5)   Examples include: a computer (CPU, monitor, keyboard, and printer)
is considered one unit.
      (6)   The town will record donated machinery and equipment at fair market
value on the date of transfer plus any associated costs.
      (7)   All machinery and equipment with a value equal to or greater than
$5,000 shall be tagged and inventoried.
      (8)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
   (C)   Buildings.
      (1)   The town will capitalize newly constructed buildings at full cost
with no subcategories for tracking the cost of attachments. Examples of
attachments are heating, cooling, lighting, or sprinkler systems, or any part
of the basic building. The town will include the cost of items designed or
purchased exclusively for the building.
      (2)   In the event the town improves or renovates an existing building,
the town will capitalize the cost only if the result meets both of the
following conditions:
         (a)   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and,
         (b)   The improvement or renovation extends the building's economic
life more than one year.
      (3)   The town will depreciate building component improvements such as
HVAC systems and roofing improvements for a period of 20 years.
      (4)   Capital building costs will include preparation of land for the
building, architectural and engineering fees, bond issuance fees, interest cost
(while under construction), accounting costs if material, any costs directly
attributable to the construction of a building.
      (5)   The town will record donated buildings at fair market value on the
date of transfer plus any associated costs.
      (6)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
   (D)   Improvements other than buildings.
      (1)   These assets are defined as improvements to land for better
enjoyment, attached or not easily removed, and which will have a life
expectancy of greater than one year. Examples are walks, parking areas and
drives, paths, fencing, retaining walls, pools, outside fountains, planters,
underground sprinkler systems, and other similar items. Improvements do not
include roads, streets, or assets that are of value only to the public. For
example, 109th Avenue is a public street with greatest value to the public.
Roads or drives upon town-owned land that provide support to our facilities arc
assets. A sidewalk along a road for public enjoyment is an infrastructure
improvement and is not capitalized. However, sidewalks installed upon the town-
owned land for use by the public and for the support of our facility are
capital assets.
      (2)   The town will capitalize any new improvements to existing assets,
other than buildings, only if it meets the following conditions:
         (a)   The total cost exceeds $5,000; and
         (b)   The useful life is greater than one year.
      (3)   Any donated improvements other than buildings will be recorded at
fair market value on the date of transfer plus any associated costs.
      (4)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the
source finding policies and above procedures.
   (E)   Infrastructure.
      (1)   Infrastructure assets are long-lived capital assets that normally
can be preserved for a significantly greater number of years than most capital
assets and are normally stationary in nature. Examples include roads,
streetlights, traffic signals, drainage systems, and water systems.
Infrastructure assets do not include buildings, drives, parking lots or any
other examples given above that are incidental to property or access to the
property above.
      (2)   Additions and improvements to infrastructure which increase the
capacity or efficiency of the asset will be capitalized. Maintenance and
repairs will be considered as necessary to maintain the existing asset and,
therefore, not capitalized. For example, patching, resurfacing, snow removal,
etc., are considered maintenance activities and will be expensed. Also, normal
department operating activities such as feasibility studies, and preliminary
engineering and design, will be expensed and not capitalized as an element of
the infrastructure asset.
(Ord. 154, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 35.04 RECORDING AND ACCOUNTING.
   (A)   The town shall classify capital expenditures as capital outlays within
the fund from which the expenditure was made in accordance with the Chart of
Accounts of the Cities and Towns Accounting Manual. The cost of the property,
plant and equipment includes all expenditures necessary to put the asset into
position and service. For purposes of recording fixed assets of the town, the
valuation of assets shall be based on historical costs, or where the historical
cost is indeterminable, by estimation for those assets in existence.
   (B)   Any town municipally owned utility shall record acquisition of fixed
assets in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). When
an asset is purchased for cash, the acquisition is simply recorded at the
amount of cash paid, including all outlays relating to its purchase and
preparation for intended use. Assets may be acquired under a number of other
arrangements, including, but not necessarily limited to, the following:
      (1)   Assets acquired for a lump-sum purchase price;
      (2)   Purchase on deferred payment contract;
      (3)   Acquisition under capital lease;
      (4)   Acquisition by exchange of non-monetary assets;
      (5)   Acquisition by issuance of securities;
      (6)   Acquisition by self-construction;
      (7)   Acquisition by donation or discovery.
   (C)   For the purposes of this chapter, as amended from time to time, an
Asset Register (prescribed Form 211) shall be maintained by the Clerk-Treasurer
to provide a detail record of the capital assets of the town. Additionally, the
Clerk-Treasurer will maintain a "Town of Winfield Fixed Asset Record" as
attached to Ordinance No. 154, passed February 20, 2007 and adopted by
reference as if fully set forth herein, for each fixed asset.
(Ord. 154, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 35.05 SAFEGUARDING OF ASSETS.
   The following accounting controls are hereby authorized to be designed,
implemented and followed by all town officials, employees, and agents of the
town to provide reasonable assurances that town assets are safeguarded for the
benefit of the town and its residents, namely:
   (A)   Capital expenditures made by the town, its various departments and
utilities, shall be in accordance with appropriate authorization, as documented
in the minutes;
   (B)   Transactions of the utilities shall be recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles;
   (C)   Adequate detail records be maintained to assure accountability for
town and utility-owned assets;
   (D)   Access to assets be permitted in accordance with management's
authorization;
   (E)   The recorded accountability for assets be compared with the existing
assets at least every two years, and appropriate action be taken with respect
to any discrepancies.
(Ord. 154, passed 2-20-2007)
CHAPTER 36: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Department of Redevelopment
   
36.01   Establishment
   
36.02   Membership
   
36.03   Redevelopment District established
   
36.04   Length of appointment
Sanitary Board
   
36.15   Establishment
   
36.16   Composition
   
36.17   Terms
   
36.18   Chair; compensation; bond
   
36.19   Powers
Department of Stormwater Management
   
36.30   Adoption of state law
   
36.31   Establishment
   
36.32   Jurisdiction
   
36.33   Special taxing district
   
36.34   Composition
   
36.35   Powers and duties
Redevelopment Authority
   
36.50   Establishment
DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT
§ 36.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Town Council hereby establishes the Department of Redevelopment.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 36.02 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Department of Redevelopment shall be controlled by a board of five
members known as the Redevelopment Commission. Three of the members shall be
appointed by the Town Council President, and two members shall be appointed by
the Town Council.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 36.03 REDEVELOPMENT DISTRICT ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to Indiana Statutes, all of the territory within the corporate
boundaries of the town will be a taxing district to be known as the
Redevelopment District, for the purpose of levying and collecting special
benefit taxes for redevelopment purposes as provided in Indiana Statutes. The
Town Council finds and determines that all of the taxable property within the
special taxing district will be considered to be benefitted by the
redevelopment projects carried out under the Statutes to the extent of the
special taxes levied under the Statutes.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 36.04 LENGTH OF APPOINTMENT.
   The original Redevelopment Commissioners appointed shall serve until the
first day of January in the second year after their appointment. Thereafter,
each Commissioner shall serve for one year from the first day of January until
his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
(Ord. 156, passed 5-21-2007)
SANITARY BOARD
§ 36.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Town Council hereby establishes the Sanitary Board of the town and
transfers to it the powers and duties heretofore held by the Town Council
concerning construction, acquisition, improvement, operation, and maintenance
of present and future sewage works within the town.
(Ord. 169, passed 3-17-2009)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish, see I.C. 36-9-23-1 et seq.
§ 36.16 COMPOSITION.
   The Sanitary Board established under subchapter shall consist of the
municipal executive (Town Council President) and two persons appointed by the
Town Council, one of whom must be a registered professional engineer. The Town
Council may not appoint any paid or unpaid municipal officer or employee to the
Sanitary Board.
(Ord. 169, passed 3-17-2009)
§ 36.17 TERMS.
   One of the original appointees to the Sanitary Board shall serve for a term
of two years and the other member shall serve for a term of three years. When
the term of a member of the Sanitary Board expires, a successor shall be
appointed for a term of three years by the Town Council.
(Ord. 169, passed 3-17-2009)
§ 36.18 CHAIR; COMPENSATION; BOND.
   (A)   Chair. The President of the Town Council shall serve as Chairman of
the Sanitary Board. The Sanitary Board shall select a Vice-Chairman from its
members and shall elect a Secretary and a Treasurer, who need not be members of
the Board. The officers selected under this section shall serve at the pleasure
of the Sanitary Board.
   (B)   Compensation of members. Each member of the Sanitary Board is entitled
to compensation, if any, that shall be fixed by the Town Council as a salary or
as payment for meetings attended. Each member is also entitled to payment for
reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of that member’s duties.
   (C)   Compensation of Secretary and Treasurer. The compensation of the
Secretary and Treasurer of the Sanitary Board shall be fixed by the Town
Council.
   (D)   Bond. The Town Council shall fix the bond required of each member of
the Sanitary Board and of the Treasurer of the Board. These bonds shall be
filed with the Recorder of Lake County, Indiana, pursuant to I.C. 5-4-1-5.1.
(Ord. 169, passed 3-17-2009)
§ 36.19 POWERS.
   The Sanitary Board of the town shall have all of the powers set forth in
I.C. 36-9-23-1 et seq. and shall further have the power to establish rules and
by-laws for its own government.
(Ord. 169, passed 3-17-2009)
DEPARTMENT OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
§ 36.30 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   I.C. 8-1.5-5-1 et seq. concerning stormwater management systems is hereby
adopted by the town so as to make said law and any and all amendments thereto
effective and operative as to the town.
(Ord. passed 190, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 36.31 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created a Department of Stormwater Management for the town
for the purpose of providing for the collection, disposal, and drainage of
storm and service water within the town.
(Ord. passed 190, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 36.32 JURISDICTION.
   The territory to be included within the jurisdiction of the Department of
Stormwater Management shall include all territory within the corporate
boundaries of the town and any territory or addition annexed to the town.
(Ord. passed 190, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 36.33 SPECIAL TAXING DISTRICT.
   There is hereby created a special taxing district which shall include all of
the territory within the corporate boundaries of the town, which territory
within the district shall constitute a special taxing district for the purpose
of providing for the collection and disposal of stormwater of the district in a
manner that protects the public health and welfare and for the purpose of
levying special benefit taxes for purposes of stormwater collection and
disposal.
(Ord. passed 190, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 36.34 COMPOSITION.
   The Stormwater Management Board shall consist of three directors to be
appointed by the Town Council President, and not more than two of whom may be
of the same political party. The term of the first director shall end on
December 31, 2010; the term of the second director shall end on December 31,
2011; and the term of the third director shall end on December 31, 2012.
Thereafter, all terms shall be for a period of three years. The members of the
Board shall be compensated for their services as set forth annually in the
salary ordinance for the town. Should a vacancy occur on the Board, that
vacancy shall be filled by the Town Council President within 60 days from the
date the vacancy occurs. The Town Council President may remove a director at
any time when, in the judgment of the President, it is for the best interest of
the Department of Stormwater Management.
(Ord. passed 190, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 36.35 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board shall have the powers and duties prescribed by I.C. 8-1.5-3-
4(a) and, in addition, the Board may:
      (1)   Hold hearings following public notice;
      (2)   Make findings and determinations;
      (3)   Install, maintain, and operate a stormwater collection and disposal
system;
      (4)   Make all necessary or desirable improvements of the grounds and
premises under its control;
      (5)   Subject to the approval of the Town Council, issue and sell bonds
of the district in the name of the town for the acquisition, construction,
alteration, addition, or extension of the stormwater collection and disposal
system, or for the refunding of any bonds issued for said purposes;
      (6)   Recommend to the Town Council reasonable and just rates and charges
for services provided by the Department of Stormwater Management;
   (B)   The Board shall have exclusive jurisdiction over the collection and
disposal of stormwater within the district.
(Ord. passed 190, passed 3-16-2010)
REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 36.50 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-7-14.5-7 (“the Act”), the Town
Redevelopment Authority is hereby established as a separate body corporate and
politic, and as an instrumentality of the town, for the purposes and to
exercise the powers set forth in the Act or otherwise granted by applicable
law. The Redevelopment Authority shall be governed by a Board of Directors
consisting of three members, each of whom shall be appointed by the President
of the Town Council, acting as the Executive of the Town, all as provided by
applicable law.
(Ord. 305, passed 7-28-2020)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   WATER WORKS
   
51.   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
   
52.   SEWERS
   
53.   STORMWATER UTILITY USER FEE
CHAPTER 50: WATER WORKS
Section
Water Works Board
   
50.01   Provisions adopted
   
50.02   Enforcement authority
   
50.03   State statutes adopted by reference
   
50.04   Board organization
   
50.05   Member appointment and terms
   
50.06   Compensation
   
50.07   Bond
   
50.08   Powers and duties
WATER WORKS BOARD
§ 50.01 PROVISIONS ADOPTED.
   The town hereby adopts the following Water Works Board provisions for the
town, and all matters related thereto.
(Ord. 89, passed 2-20-2001)
§ 50.02 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The enforcement of this subchapter can be by any town official or his or her
agent.
(Ord. 89, passed 2-20-2001)
§ 50.03 STATE STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Pursuant to an act of the General Assembly of the state, the town adopts and
incorporates into this code by reference the provisions of I.C. 8-1.5-4 et
seq., as if they were set forth in full herein. Further, the Town Council
hereby adopts and incorporates by reference the provisions of I.C. 8-1.5-3-
4 and I.C. 8-1.5-4-4.
(Ord. 89, passed 2-20-2001)
§ 50.04 BOARD ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-4-2, the Department of Water Works shall be
under the exclusive control and direction of the Water Works Board, which shall
not be required to consist of any particular five members of which no more than
three may be of the same political party.
   (B)   The Town Council shall appoint the members of the Water Works Board,
who shall serve at the pleasure of the Town Council. The Town Council may
remove a Board member at any time, when, in their judgment, it is in the best
interests of the Department.
(Ord. 89, passed 2-20-2001)
§ 50.05 MEMBER APPOINTMENT AND TERMS.
   (A)   Each of the Board members elected shall immediately qualify for and
take office as prescribed, and shall continue to serve as Director and perform
his or her duties as provided by law during the term for which he or she was
appointed. Any vacancy occurring in the Board shall be filled for the unexpired
term by the Town Council.
   (B)   After initial terms are served by individual members, each member can
be reappointed to serve a four-year term.
(Ord. 89, passed 2-20-2001; Am. Ord. 89A, passed 1-20-2004; Am. Ord. 89B,
passed 9-24-2013)
§ 50.06 COMPENSATION.
   Each qualified Director shall receive as full compensation for his or her
service a monthly sum as set from time to time by the Council. This sum shall
be compensation for attendance at any and all regular and/or special meetings
and for any and all other services rendered to the Department of Water Works
for the town.
(Ord. 89, passed 2-20-2001)
§ 50.07 BOND.
   Each member of the Board appointed to manage and control the Water Works
shall post a bond in the amount of $500 to be paid by the town.
(Ord. 89, passed 2-20-2001)
§ 50.08 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Upon the appointment by the Town Council, the members of the Water Works
Board shall function as the Board of Directors of the Department of Water Works
and shall have and possess all of the rights, powers, duties, and liabilities
that are set forth or prescribed.
(Ord. 89, passed 2-20-2001)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
Residential Collection Service
   
51.15   Refuse collection service required
   
51.16   Garbage pickup collection receptacle policies and requirements
   
51.17   Services; billing and payment
   
51.18   Separate recycling
   
51.19   Clean-up events; restrictions
   
51.20   Exemptions
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.30   Enforcement
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to manage solid waste disposal, see I.C. 36-9-30-1 et seq.
   Solid waste reduction, see I.C. 13-9-1-1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULK ITEMS. Items exceeding twenty pounds. Items covered include, but are
not limited to: couches, mattresses, bookcases, carpeting, and white goods.
   BUSINESS(ES). A structure used for the purchase, sale, barter, or exchange
of goods, wares, merchandise, or services, or the maintenance or operation of
offices, recreational, agricultural, or amusement enterprises. BUSINESS
participation in the town refuse collection program will be voluntary.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS. Rubbish generated by the construction,
remodeling, or demolition of buildings or building appurtenances, and including
concrete, brick, wood, roofing materials, gypsum board, piping, and building
fixtures (such as, cabinets, water closets, windows).
   COUNCIL. The Town Council, acting in its executive or legislative capacity.
   CUSTOMER. The person or persons of a dwelling or household within the town
for whom the services provided by the town’s contractor are performed and by
whom those services are paid.
   DWELLING or HOUSEHOLD. A building or portion of a building used primarily as
a place of abode for one or more persons, including apartment buildings of not
more than two DWELLING units, and including trailers and mobile homes, but not
including motels and hotels.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
   GARBAGE CONTAINER. A container made of plastic or metal equipped with
suitable handles and tight-fitting covers, and plastic garbage bags or similar
receptacles. GARBAGE CONTAINERS shall be water tight and of a type approved by
the town and contractor, with a capacity of not less than 20 gallons and not
more than 32 gallons, and shall be provided by the household and shall be kept
clean, neat, and sanitary at all times. Filled bags may be placed into
containers, but no loose refuse shall be placed into containers.
   RECYCLABLE. Includes newspaper and cardboard, magazines, paperboard, white
office paper, junk mail (residential mixed paper), telephone books, glass
bottles (clear, brown, green), cans (tin, steel, aluminum), and rigid plastic
containers (grades 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7).
   RECYCLING CONTAINER. An 18-gallon plastic container provided by the
contractor for the placement of discarded recyclables.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and non-putrescible wastes (except human body
waste), including garbage, rubbish, and recyclables and yard waste.
   RUBBISH. Limited to non-recyclable putrescible and non-putrescible solid
waste, both combustible and non-combustible, including paper, cardboard,
bottles, cans (tin, steel, aluminum), glass, bedding, rags, crockery, wood,
small amounts of construction debris (not to exceed two cubic yards) cut in
four foot lengths and securely bundled, and one large item per week (such as,
furniture, appliances).
   SOLID WASTE. Identical to REFUSE as defined herein.
   TOWN. The Town of Winfield, Lake County, Indiana.
   YARD WASTE. Compostible organic waste resulting from the maintenance of
lawns, gardens, landscaping, and trees, which includes green clippings, tree
branches, hedge trimmings, garden waste, and leaves.
(Ord. 34, passed 11-19-1997)
RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION SERVICE
§ 51.15 REFUSE COLLECTION SERVICE REQUIRED.
   Every owner, lessee or occupant of residential buildings consisting of four
or less dwelling units shall have non-recyclable household refuse collected
every seven days.
(Ord. 34, passed 11-19-1997; Am. Ord. 34C, passed 2-26-2019)
§ 51.16 GARBAGE PICKUP COLLECTION RECEPTACLE POLICIES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   Garbage receptacles, related containers, and any other refuse items, shall
not be paced at the curb of the residential address more than 24-hours prior to
a regularly scheduled garbage pickup. Additionally, it is the responsibility of
the resident for whom garbage service is provided to remove all garbage
receptacles, related containers, and remaining refuse items from the curb of
the residential address within 24-hours of the regularly scheduled and
completed garbage pickup.
(Ord. 34C, passed 2-26-2019)
§ 51.17 SERVICES; BILLING AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   Every owner, lessee or occupant of residential buildings shall pay the
service rates established by the Town of Winfield. The rates and charges for
solid waste services shall be billed on a monthly basis by the Town of Winfield
combined with any other applicable Winfield municipal utility charge(s).
   (B)   The following services, fees and charges shall apply:
      (1)   Unlimited collection of recyclables as identified in the
collections contract. One container of a size up to 96 gallons shall be
provided to each residential customer by the town's Solid Waste Collection
Contractor.
      (2)   Collection of non-recyclable refuse. One container of a size up to
96 gallons shall be provided to each residential customer by the town's Solid
Waste Collection Contractor. Additional solid waste containers may be requested
directly from the town's Solid Waste Collection Contractor at additional cost
from said contractor.
      (3)   Solid waste and recyclables collection fee shall be $19.05 per
month for each residential customer effective May 1, 2021.
      (4)   As provided by applicable law, as amended from time to time, all
rates and charges not paid by the due date of the billing are hereby declared
delinquent, and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the unpaid and delinquent
rates and charges shall thereon attach thereto.
      (5)   Nonrecurring charges. Non-sufficient funds fee (bad check charge or
otherwise dishonored payment) or the charge incurred by the Town of Winfield
from its depository bank or third party presentment provider, whichever is
greater; $27.50 per occurrence.
(Ord. 34, passed 11-19-1997; Am. Ord. 34B, passed 12-21-2017; Am. Ord. 34D,
passed 3-24-2020; Am. Ord. 34E, passed 4-13-2021)
§ 51.18 SEPARATE RECYCLING.
   Nothing in this chapter shall abridge the right of any person to give or
sell his or her recyclable materials to any lawfully operated recycling program
or facility.
(Ord. 34, passed 11-19-1997)
§ 51.19 CLEAN-UP EVENTS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   From time to time, the town intends to conduct seasonal (spring and
fall) clean-up events for town residents. For a period of time not to exceed
one week, the town will place at least one large dumpster at a secure location
in the town. Residents of the town may use this dumpster to dispose of non-
recyclable household refuse that otherwise would require stickers for
collection.
   (B)   This dumpster is not intended to be used to dispose of large items
which are acceptable in the resident’s ordinary weekly collection program, nor
is this program intended for any other material which is not to be included in
the town’s residential refuse collection contract.
   (C)   Individuals using the dumpster will need to present a valid
identification card showing a town residential address.
(Ord. 34, passed 11-19-1997)
§ 51.20 EXEMPTIONS.
   In the event a resident resides at a location where in the normal course of
business a commercial waste disposal service is engaged on a contract basis
utilizing a commercial container system with a one and one-half cubic yard or
larger container, then that residential location shall be exempt. This
provision shall not apply to multi-unit residential buildings described in §
51.15 of this code.
(Ord. 34, passed 11-19-1997)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.30 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the Town Attorney.
(Ord. 34, passed 11-19-1997)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Residents violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
a fine. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      (1)   Violators shall be given a written warning for the initial
violation.
      (2)   A penalty fine will be imposed for each subsequent violation.
   (B)   Violators shall in addition be liable for attorney fees involved in
enforcing this chapter and any past due collection arrearages.
   (C)   Violators of §§
51.15 and
51.16, garbage pickup collection receptacle policies and requirements shall be
issued a warning citation for the first violation in a calendar year, and a $50
fine for each violation thereafter. Each subsequent day of a violation will
result in a fine for each day. In the event legal proceedings are required to
be commenced, violator(s) shall pay all costs of said proceedings, including
attorney fees of the town incurred.
(Ord. 34, passed 11-19-1997; Am. Ord. 34C, passed 2-26-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Charges established
   
52.03   Rates
   
52.04   System development charge
   
52.05   Billing
   
52.06   Rate study
   
52.07   Rules and regulations
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Winfield, or any duly authorized
officials acting in its behalf.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The maximum annual principal and interest payments on
all proposed revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade or
business processes as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NPDES (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM) PERMIT. The same
meaning as defined in the sewer use ordinance.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COST. Includes all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport and treatment on
a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform with
all related federal, state and local requirements.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, system development charges, connections
charges, area charges, and other identifiable charges other than excessive
strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment to this chapter,
which regulates the connection to the use of public and private sewers.
   TOWN. The Town of Winfield acting by and through the Town Council.
   USER CLASS. The division of wastewater treatment customers by source,
function, waste characteristics, and process or discharge similarities.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business or service, which based on a determination by the town
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state or local governmental user of
the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to a wastewater treatment works.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious, and/or educational function, which, based on a
determination by the town discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user or the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units, etc.
(Ord. 143, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 52.02 CHARGES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   (1)   The classes of users of the Sewage Works for the purpose of this
section, as amended from time to time, shall be as follows:
         (a)   Class I - Residential.
         (b)   Commercial.
         (c)   Governmental.
         (d)    Institutional.
         (e)   Industrial.
      (2)   (Class I shall comprise all users whose premises are served by said
town sewage works, except Class II Users, as same are defined hereinafter in
this division, as amended from time to time).
   (B)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units, etc.
   (C)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business or service, which based on a determination by the town,
discharge primarily segregate domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   (D)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state or local governmental user of
the wastewater treatment works, which based on a determination by the town,
discharge primarily segregate domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   (E)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious, and/or educational function, which, based on a
determination by the town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   (F)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to a wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   Class II - Doubletree Project Area. The Class II User Class herein
shall include the persons whose premises are served by the project to be
commenced and completed in the Doubletree Project Area, which is specified by
the boundaries of the Second Amended Final Development Plan for Doubletree Lake
Estates Planned Unit Development approved by the Lake County Plan Commission
and Lake County, Indiana, Council October 15, 1996, and duly recorded in the
Office of the Lake County Recorder August 1, 1997; that a copy of said recorded
Second Amended Final Development Plan is attached hereto and incorporated
herein as Exhibit "A". The Class II User Class shall include, as determined by
the town, all persons whose premises are outside the above-referenced Second
Amended Final Development Plan boundaries, but are benefitted and served by the
Wastewater collection system improvements made in the Doubletree Project Area
for which Class II User Rates and Charges are established, as determined by the
town. Further, the Class II User Rates and Charges are resultant of the
substantial and mandatory Rehabilitation improvements required in the
Doubletree Project Area, as determined and reported to the town by its
Municipal Utility Engineering Firm and specified by the Project Design Plans,
as defined and described herein.
   (G)   Every person whose premises are served by said sewage works shall be
charged for the service provided. These charges are established for each user
class, as defined, in order that the sewage works shall recover, from each user
and user class, revenue, which is proportional to its use of the treatment
works in terms of peak requirements, volume, and load. User charges shall be
uniform in magnitude within a designated user class.
(Ord. 143, passed 3-21-2006; Am. Ord. 143-F, passed 8-26-2017)
§ 52.03 RATES.
   For the use of the service rendered by sewage works, rates and charges shall
be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of real estate or
building that is connected with the town, sewage works, or otherwise discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids, either directly or
indirectly, into the wastewater collection system and sewage works of the town.
Such rates and charges include user charges, debt service costs, excessive
strength surcharges and other service charges, which rates and charges shall be
payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount determined as
follows:
   (A)   Sewage service bills shall be rendered and payment shall be required
to be made hereafter on a monthly basis.
   (B)   Except as herein otherwise provided, the sewage rates and charges
shall be based on the quantity of water used or shall be based on the quantity
of sewage flow on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and
charges as the same is determined by the water meter or sewage flow meter
thereby used. Sewage service bills shall be rendered once each month (or period
equaling a month).
   (C)   The schedule on which said rates and charges shall be determined is as
follows:
         Treatment rate per 1,000 gallons            $ 11.95
         Minimum Monthly Charge (up to 2,000 gallons allowed)   $23.90
      (1)   For the water usage months of November, December, January,
February, March, and April, in each year, metered residential customers shall
be charged for waste water volume on the basis of actual monthly water meter
readings.
      (2)   For the water usage months of May, June, July, August, September,
and October, metered residential customers shall billed on the basis of an
average of the individual customer's monthly water meter readings for the prior
November, December, January, February, March, and April water meter readings.
      (3)   Where the residential customer's actual usage for the May, June,
July, August, September, or October billing periods is less than the average
use for the previous winter, the lower number shall be used for the volume
calculation.
      (4)   When a metered residential customer has no usage history for the
subject real estate from the base period of November, December, January,
February, March, April, or May, in order to calculate a summer adjusted
billing, the metered residential customer shall be charged the actual usage
rate up to a maximum rate of $59.75 per bimonthly billing period for the summer
(May, June, July, August, September, October) rate.
   (C)   The monthly sewer service charge for each user, if such user is not a
metered water customer and such user does not have a sewage flow meter, shall
be as follows:
FLAT RATE CHARGES: TYPE OF CONNECTION
FLAT RATE CHARGES: TYPE OF CONNECTION
Single-family residential dwelling - user Class I          $59.75 per home
Single-family residential dwelling - user Class II         $69.75 per home
(includes Doubletree Project Area surcharge)                
Duplex residential dwelling                                $120.00 per duplex
Apartment and condominiums                                  
   One bedroom                                          $39.00 per unit
   Two bedroom                                          $58.20 per unit
   Three bedroom                                        $67.80 per unit
Assembly hall                                              $0.60 per seat
Bar (without food service)                                 $1.80 per seat
Beauty salon                                               $6.60 per customer
Bowling alley                                               
   With bar and/or food service                         $24.00 per lane
   Without food service                                 $14.40 per lane
Automotive car washes - Will be required to use metered     
rates
   Evaporation discount on metered water usage          15.00%
Church                                                      
   With kitchen                                         $1.20 per sanctuary
                                                           seat
   Without kitchen                                      $0.60 per sanctuary
                                                           seat
Day care center                                            $3.60 per person
                                                           $145.20 per chair
Dentist                                                    plus $14.40 per
                                                           employee
Food service operations                                     
   Cocktail lounge                                      $6.60 per seat
   Non 24-hour restaurant                               $6.60 per seat
   24-hour restaurant                                   $9.60 per seat
   Interstate 24-hour restaurant                        $13.80 per seat
   Tavern                                               $6.60 per seat
   Curb service (drive-in) restaurant                   $9.60 per seat
Governmental entities or public authorities                 
   Will be required to use metered rates based on water  
usage
Hospital or medical facilities                             $39.00 per bed
Hotel                                                      $19.20 per room
Kennels                                                    $3.60 per animal
                                                           enclosure
Mental health facility                                     $19.20 per patient
Mobile home park                                           $39.00 per lot
Motel                                                      $19.20 per room
Nursing home                                               $19.20 per bed
Office building                                            $3.60 per employee
                                                           $72.60 per chair
Orthodontist                                               plus $7.20 per
                                                           employee
Outpatient surgical center                                 $9.60 per patient
School                                                      
   Elementary                                           $3.00 per pupil
   Secondary                                            $4.80 per pupil
Service (gas) station                                      $77.40 per restroom
                                                           $19.20 per 1,000
Shopping Center                                            square foot of floor
                                                           space plus $3.60 per
                                                           employee
Theater                                                     
   Drive-in                                             $1.20 per car space
   Inside building                                      $1.20 per seat
 
   (D)   Doubletree Project Area surcharge (Class II)
      Surcharge per month: $10.00
   (E)   Nonrecurring charges.
         Bad (non-sufficient funds or otherwise dishonored) check charge:
$27.50 (or the charged incurred by the town from its depository bank, whichever
is greater.
   (F)   Lawn sprinklers and irrigation water service connections. No monthly
or other charges for sewer services will be made on water meters that are
dedicated to lawn sprinklers or irrigation uses where the water connection does
not result in a discharge to a sewer collection main.
   (G)   Day care center. The following factors shall be used for purposes of
calculating a per person equivalency for day care centers:
      (1)   Hours and day the center is open;
      (2)   Number of hours various children are present at the center;
      (3)   Full-time equivalency of staff;
      (4)   Seasonal fluctuation in attendance level;
      (5)   Number of children old enough to use toilet; and
      (6)   Use of nonstandard capacity children's toilet.
   (H)   Monthly rates and charges. The monthly rates and charges provided
herein shall be applied throughout the year based upon the maximum sewage
service required in any month in any calendar year. For example, the user
charges based upon employment shall be applied throughout the year based upon
the maximum employment of the user for such single maximum employment month,
and such maximum usage shall be applied through the year.
(Ord. 143, passed 3-21-2006; Am. Ord. 143A, passed 4-18-2006; Am. Ord. 143-B,
passed 11-21- 2006; Am. Ord. 143-C, passed 8-21-2007; Am. Ord. 143-D, passed 1-
26-2016; Am. Ord. 143-F, passed 8-26-2017)
§ 52.04 SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGE.
   A system development charge will be collected from new customers of the
sewage system in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Meter  5/8" - 1"     1¼"    1½"    2"      3"      4"       6"       8"
Size   3/4"
Ratio  1      2.5    4       5.8     10      23      40       91       162.1
Charge $3,190 $7,975 $12,760 $18,502 $31,900 $73,370 $127,600 $290,290 $517,099
 
(Ord. 143, passed 3-21-2006; Am. Ord. 143-E, passed 5-23-2017; Am. Ord. 143-G,
passed 3-12-2019)
§ 52.05 BILLING.
   Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the town
in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (A)   Rates and charges shall be prepared and billed monthly, and payment
shall be required to be made monthly.
   (B)   (1)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants
occupying the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the
owner, but such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in
the event payment is not made as herein required.
      (2)   The owners or properties served, which are occupied by a tenant or
tenants shall have the right to examine the collection records of the town for
the purpose of determining whether bills have been paid by such tenant or
tenants, provided that such examination shall be made at the office at which
such records are kept and during the hours that such office is open for
business.
   (C)   As is provided by applicable law as amended from time to time, all
rates and charges not paid by the due date of the billing are hereby declared
to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the unpaid and
delinquent rates and charges shall thereupon attach thereto.
(Ord. 143, passed 3-21-2006; Am. Ord. 143-B, passed 11-21-2006; Am. Ord. 143-D,
passed 1-26-2016)
§ 52.06 RATE STUDY.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may remain
fair and equitable and be in proportion to the cost of providing services to
the various users of user classes, the town shall cause a study to be made
within a reasonable period of time following the first two years of operation,
following the date on which this chapter goes into effect. Such study shall
include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the cost associated with the
treatment of excessive strength effluents from industrial users, volume and
delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to the various users or user
classes, the financial position of the sewage works and the adequacy of its
revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation and maintenance,
replacements, debt service requirements and capital improvements to the
wastewater treatment systems.
   (B)   Thereafter, on a biennial basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the town shall cause a similar study to
be made for the purpose of reviewing the fairness, equity and proportionality
of the rates and charges for sewage services on a continuing basis. Said
studies shall be conducted by officers or employees of the town or by a firm of
certified public accountants, or a firm of consulting engineers which firms
shall have experience in such studies, or by such combination of officers,
employees, certified public accountants or engineers as the town shall
determine to be best under the circumstances. The town shall, upon completion
of said study revise and adjust the rates and charges, as necessary, in
accordance therewith in order to maintain the proportionality and sufficiency
of the rates.
(Ord. 143, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 52.07 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce such by-laws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
town's sewage system, pumping stations and sewage treatment works, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewage treatment
works, the sewage collection system and for the regulation, collection and
rebating and refunding of such rates and charges.
   (B)   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the
town's sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the works of the town, or to require method affecting pretreatment
of said wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards included in the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued to the
town or as contained in the EPA General Pretreatment Regulations, 40 CFR Part
403 and any amendments thereto or the town's pretreatment program plan, if any.
(Ord. 143, passed 3-21-2006)
CHAPTER 53: STORMWATER UTILITY USER FEE
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Fee imposed
   
53.03   Establishment procedures
   
53.04   Fee structure
   
53.05   Billings and terms of payment
   
53.06   Appeals of ERU determinations
   
53.07   Stormwater Fund
   
53.08   Lien on premises
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT. Any action taken to remedy, correct, or eliminate a condition
within, associated with, or impacting a stormwater drainage system.
   AGRICULTURAL PROPERTY. A parcel of land or lot having an area in excess of
five acres and encompassing two or more structures used to support agricultural
activities.
   APARTMENT/CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY. A lot or parcel of land on which is situated
a building containing five or more single-family dwelling units, or on which
two or more buildings each containing multiple single-family dwelling units are
situated.
   APPROVED PLANS. Plans approved by the Town of Winfield Department of
Stormwater Management according to a permits and plan review which will govern
all improvements made within the town that require stormwater facilities or
changes or alterations to existing stormwater facilities.
   BOARD. Board of Directors of the Town of Winfield Department of Stormwater
Management established under §§
36.30 through
36.35.
   CODE. Winfield Town Code.
   COMBINED SEWER. Pipe or conduit primarily designed to convey sanitary sewage
and secondarily intended to convey stormwater.
   DETENTION. The temporary storage of stormwater runoff in a basin, pond or
other structure to control the peak discharge rates by holding the stormwater
for a period of time and which provides some gravity settling of particulates.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. Stormwater runoff from a lot or parcel of real property
contiguous to any creek, ditch or lateral thereto, that is regulated by the
Lake County Drainage Board and enters either such ditch or lateral without
crossing other properties or entering the public stormwater facilities or
stormwater system.
   DIRECTOR. The lead superintendent designated by the Town of Winfield
Department of Stormwater Management.
   DSM. Winfield Department of Stormwater Management.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A unit value equal to the average amount of
impervious area of a single-family residential property (ERU) within the town
and established at 4,343 square feet of (measured) impervious area. It is also
the basis for calculating the proper assessment of stormwater charges to all
users of the town stormwater system.
   IMPERVIOUS AREA. Area that has been paved and/or covered with buildings and
materials which include, but are not limited to, concrete, asphalt, rooftop,
blacktop, and compacted gravel, such that the natural infiltration of water
into the soil is prevented. Excluded from this definition are undisturbed land,
lawns and fields.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. All properties not encompassed within the
definition of RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY shall be defined as non-residential
property. NON-RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY shall include, but not necessarily be
limited to:
      (1)   Agricultural property;
      (2)   Apartment and condominium property;
      (3)   Mobile home parks;
      (4)   Commercial property;
      (5)   Industrial property;
      (6)   Institutional property;
      (7)   Governmental property;
      (8)   Churches;
      (9)   Schools;
      (10)   Federal, state and local government owned property; and
      (11)   Any other property not mentioned herein or in the list of
residential properties below.
   NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System. Regulations for
stormwater discharges as described in The Federal Register, 40 CFR Parts 122,
123 and 124, as amended.
   NPDES PERMIT. Permit which may be required to be obtained by the town
pursuant to Section 402 of the Clean Water Act, as amended.
   PEAK DISCHARGE. The maximum rate of flow of water passing a given point
during or after a rainfall event.
   PRIVATE STORMWATER FACILITIES. Various stormwater and drainage works not
under the control or ownership of the town, county, state and/or federal
government which may include inlets, conduits, pipes, pumping stations,
manholes, structures, channels, outlets, retention or detention basins, other
structural components and equipment designed to transport, move, hold or
regulate stormwater.
   PUBLIC STORMWATER FACILITIES. The various stormwater and drainage works
under the control and/or ownership of the town, county state or federal
government which may include inlets, conduits, pipes, pumping stations,
manholes, structures, channels, outlets, retention or detention basins, other
structural components and equipment designed to transport, move, hold or
regulate stormwater.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. For the purpose of this chapter, refers to a lot or
parcel of real property on which a building or mobile home is situated, which
building contains a group of rooms forming a single inhabitable dwelling unit
with facilities that are used or are intended to be used primarily for living,
sleeping, cooking and eating. This definition also includes a lot containing
one individual building containing four or fewer separate or contiguous single-
family dwelling units. Each and every residential property shall be assigned
one ERU.
   RETENTION. The holding of stormwater runoff in a constructed basin or pond
or in a natural body of water without release except by means of evaporation,
infiltration or emergency bypass.
   SQUARE FOOTAGE IMPERVIOUS AREA. For the purpose of assigning an appropriate
number of ERUs to a parcel of real property, the square footage of all
impervious area using the outside boundary dimensions of the impervious area to
include the total enclosed square footage, without regard to topographic
features of the enclosed surface.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer designed or intended to convey only stormwater, surface
runoff, street wash waters, and drainage, and not intended for sanitary sewage
and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water. The portion of a
sewer intended to carry stormwater only, which begins at the grating or opening
where water enters said sewer, through the sewer and any other conduits to the
outlet structure where water enters a channel, natural watercourse or combined
sewer.
   STORMWATER. The chemical compound of hydrogen and oxygen which is produced
from atmospheric clouds as rain, snow, sleet, and hail.
   STORMWATER SYSTEM. All constructed facilities, including combined sewers,
structures and natural watercourses under the ownership, and/or control of the
town and/or the DSM, used for collecting and conducting stormwater to, through
and from drainage areas to the point of final outlet, including, but not
limited to, any and all of the following: inlets, conduits and appurtenant
features, creeks, channels, catch basins, ditches, streams, culverts, retention
or detention basins and pumping stations; and excluding therefrom, any part of
the system of drains and watercourses under the jurisdiction of the Lake County
Drainage Board.
   STORMWATER UTILITY CUSTOMER/USER. The owner of a lot or parcel of
residential or non- residential property.
   STORMWATER UTILITY USER FEE. A charge imposed on users of the town's public
stormwater facilities and stormwater system.
(Ord. 194, passed 11-16-2010)
§ 53.02 FEE IMPOSED.
   A stormwater utility user fee shall be imposed on each and every lot and
parcel of real property within the town, which charge shall be assessed against
the owner thereof, who shall be considered the stormwater utility customer/user
for the purposes of this chapter. This user fee is deemed reasonable and is
necessary to pay for the repair, replacement, planning, improvement, operation,
regulation and maintenance of the existing and future stormwater collection
system for the town.
(Ord. 194, passed 11-16-2010)
§ 53.03 ESTABLISHMENT PROCEDURES.
   The stormwater utility user fee shall be $6 per ERU per month. For the
purpose of this chapter, a month shall be considered 25 to 35 days. Any
billings for stormwater service outside this time shall be on a per diem basis.
This stormwater utility user fee rate is designed to recover and be able to pay
the cost of rendering stormwater service to the users of the stormwater system,
and shall be the basis for assessment of the town's stormwater utility user
fee. This rate is established so as to maintain adequate fund reserves to
provide for reasonably expected variations in the cost of providing services,
as well as variations in the demand for services. This rate shall be evaluated
annually as to its sufficiency to satisfy the needs of the DSM.
(Ord. 194, passed 11-16-2010)
§ 53.04 FEE STRUCTURE.
   For the purposes stated herein, there is hereby assessed a stormwater
utility user fee to each stormwater utility customer/user within the corporate
limits of the town in an amount as determined below. For any such property,
lot, parcel of land, building or premises which contributes directly or
indirectly to the stormwater system of the town, such charge shall be based
upon the quantity of impervious area situated thereon. All properties having
pervious or impervious area within the town will be assigned an equivalent
residential unit (ERU), or a multiple thereof, with all properties having
impervious area receiving at least one ERU.
   (A)   Six dollars per ERU;
   (B)   Commercial property: Actual number of ERU times ERU rate;
   (C)   Developed residential: $6 (one ERU) per residential unit to be paid
commencing on issuance of a building permit for a residence;
   (D)   Platted undeveloped residential lots: $6 (one ERU) for all undeveloped
lots titled in name of one common owner;
   (E)   Vacant unplatted agriculture, non-residential, and non-commercial
land: $6 (one ERU) per common ownership irrespective of acreage so long as
acreage is contiguous;
   (F)   There shall be no exemptions from the application of these fees except
for local, state, and federal government owned properties.
(Ord. 194, passed 11-16-2010)
§ 53.05 BILLINGS AND TERMS OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   Billings.
      (1)   Storm water bills shall be issued along with the user’s charges for
other town utility services, or as provided in division (B) hereinafter of this
amendatory section, and these regulations.
      (2)   As is provided by applicable statute as same is amended hereafter
from time to time, all rates and charges not paid by the due date of billing
are hereby declared to be delinquent, and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates and charges shall thereon attach thereto.
      (3)   All residential storm water customers will have storm water service
bills rendered on a monthly basis along with the user’s charges for all other
town utility services.
      (4)   All commercial storm water customers will have storm water service
bills rendered on a monthly basis.
   (B)   Collection. Delinquent storm water utility user fees may be collected
in a civil action along with other delinquent town utility charges by the town,
and the town shall be permitted to collect its reasonable attorney’s fees and
court costs.
   (C)   Nonrecurring charges. Non-sufficient funds fee (bad check charge or
otherwise dishonored payment) or the charge incurred by the town from its
depository bank or third party presentment provider, whichever is greater;
$27.50 per occurrence.
(Ord. 194, passed 11-16-2010; Am. Ord. 194A, passed 9-11-2012; Am. Ord. 194B,
passed 1-27- 2015; Am. Ord. 194C, passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord. 194D, passed 12-
21-2017)
§ 53.06 APPEALS OF ERU DETERMINATIONS.
   If a stormwater utility customer/user determines that the ERU multiple
assigned to said user's real property is incorrect for any reason, said
stormwater utility customer/user shall have the right to appeal the ERU
determination and thus the rate assessed in the following manner:
   (A)   The stormwater utility customer/user shall obtain and complete a
Petition to Appeal Stormwater Rate form ("petition"), which shall be returned
to the Clerk-Treasurer with verifiable documentation supporting the appeal.
   (B)   The Director shall investigate the appeal and, upon review thereof,
shall render a written determination to the Board and the stormwater utility
customer/user that either the original ERU determination and assessed rate
should be affirmed or the stormwater utility user fee should be adjusted in
accordance with the petition.
   (C)   If a petition to appeal is denied, said determination shall be
forwarded to the stormwater utility customer/user by certified mail, return
receipt requested. The stormwater utility customer/user shall then have 30 days
from the date of receipt of said determination to request a reconsideration by
the Board. Any additional facts concerning the appeal shall be submitted in
writing to the DSM, along with a copy of the original petition and supporting
documents, to the Board. The Director shall submit a written report of the
determination in the case, along with any documents used in denying the appeal.
   (D)   Thereafter, the Board shall review all documentation and, if requested
in writing by the stormwater utility customer/user, conduct a hearing to
determine and resolve the appeal. Such hearing will be scheduled by the DSM and
the stormwater utility customer/user will be notified by certified mail of the
date of such hearing, which notice shall be received by the stormwater utility
customer/user at least seven days prior to the date of such hearing. A written
opinion shall be rendered within 30 days after the hearing or submission of
documentation if no hearing is conducted. The written opinion of the Board
shall constitute the final DSM determination. The hearing shall be
electronically recorded and if requested by the stormwater utility customer/
user, a transcript of the hearing shall be provided to the stormwater utility
customer/user. The stormwater utility customer/user will be charged at a cost
per page as determined by the Board, in accordance with applicable law as
amended from time to time.
   (E)   A stormwater utility customer/user aggrieved by the final Board
determination shall have the right to judicial review of such determination in
accordance with applicable Indiana law.
   (F)   If the Director recommends the stormwater utility user fee be reduced,
or reduction is ordered by the Director, the Board or any court of competent
jurisdiction, the stormwater utility customer/user shall be credited
accordingly for any overpayment made from the date of the petition.
   (G)   Dispute or appeal of an ERU determination or stormwater service rate
shall not be a valid reason for non-payment of the originally assessed
stormwater utility user fee by the stormwater utility customer/user.
(Ord. 194, passed 11-16-2010)
§ 53.07 STORMWATER FUND.
   All revenues and fees collected for stormwater service, including but not
limited to, stormwater utility user fees, credit application fees, and interest
earnings on any unused funds, shall be deposited in an account entitled Town of
Winfield Stormwater Maintenance Account. Disbursements from this account will
be authorized by the Board, as required by law. Such disbursements will be used
for the operation, maintenance and improvement of the town's stormwater system
in accordance with applicable Indiana law. Funds from this account shall not
revert to any other town utilities or town fund and may not be transferred for
any other purpose, except as permitted by applicable Indiana law.
(Ord. 194, passed 11-16-2010)
§ 53.08 LIEN ON PREMISES.
   Each stormwater utility user fee charged pursuant to this chapter is hereby
made a lien upon the residential and/or non-residential property to which the
same is charged, and, if the same is not paid within 90 days after it shall be
due and payable, it shall be certified to the Auditor of Lake County, who shall
place the same on the tax duplicate of said County with the interest and
penalties allowed by law to be collected as other taxes are collected.
(Ord. 194, passed 11-16-2010)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
   
72.   OFF-ROAD VEHICLES AND MOTORIZED BICYCLES
   
73.   BICYCLES
   
74.   PARKING REGULATIONS
   
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
   
76.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions; state statute adopted by reference
   
70.02   Short title
   
70.03   Accepted local roads and streets
   
70.04   Renaming streets
Traffic Surveys; Temporary Signs
   
70.15   Temporary signs authorized; compliance required
   
70.16   New sign locations; notification requirements
   
70.17   Temporary signs; removal; evaluation period
   
70.18   Plan Commission; annual recommendations
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.30   Procedure on arrest; notice to appear
   
70.31   Notification forms
   
70.32   Notice of illegally parked vehicle
   
70.33   Failure to appear; complaint filed
   
70.34   Interfering with notice prohibited
   
70.35   Illegally parked vehicle; presumption of responsibility
   
70.36   Fines and forfeitures; payment and disposition
   
70.37   Moving offenses; jurisdiction
Traffic Deferral Program
   
70.45   Establishment
   
70.46   Eligibility
   
70.47   Application
   
70.48   Fees
   
70.49   Procedure
   
70.50   Implementation
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt local traffic regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-2
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS; STATE STATUTE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The words and phrases used in this title shall have the same meaning and
definitions as defined in I.C. 9-13-1-1 et seq., addressing definitions.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 70.02 SHORT TITLE.
   This title may be known and cited as the Traffic Code of the town.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 70.03 ACCEPTED LOCAL ROADS AND STREETS.
   (A)   The roads and streets listed in Chapter 75, Schedule V have been
accepted by the town and certified by the state.
   (B)   The roads and streets listed in Chapter 75, Schedule VI are all other
streets not listed as certified within the town.
   (C)   Additional streets may be added, as the town deems necessary, per an
amendment to the schedules named above.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 70.04 RENAMING STREETS.
   The renaming of any streets within the corporate boundaries of the town can
only occur upon approval by the Town Council on recommendation from the Plan
Commission.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
TRAFFIC SURVEYS; TEMPORARY SIGNS
§ 70.15 TEMPORARY SIGNS AUTHORIZED; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Whenever the Town Council in the course of the traffic study deems it
advisable to delete or to add other streets to the schedules attached in
Chapters 75 and 76 of this code they may do so on a temporary basis, and those
streets and locations, when posted by signs, shall be deemed for that temporary
period to be incorporated within the terms of this title, and persons violating
the same shall be deemed guilty of an offense as if they were incorporated
within the respective sections scheduled herein.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.16 NEW SIGN LOCATIONS; NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Upon the posting of the streets as described in § 70.15 of this code, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall immediately forward copies of the addition to the Town
Council, the County Highway Department, and the Town Attorney. In addition, a
copy of the change or addition to the schedules shall be posted in a public
place in each ward of the town.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 70.17 TEMPORARY SIGNS; REMOVAL; EVALUATION PERIOD.
   (A)   In the event that the Town Council shall, by resolution, deem the
addition to be unwise or improper, then the signs shall be immediately removed.
   (B)   Unless and until the Town Council disapproves of the proposed addition
or modification of the schedules, then the Clerk-Treasurer and\or the Building
Official may maintain the signs for any period he or she deems sufficient to
properly evaluate the effects and benefits of the addition or modification to
the schedules, not to exceed one year.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 70.18 PLAN COMMISSION; ANNUAL RECOMMENDATIONS.
   At least once each year the Plan Commission shall forward to the Town
Council a list of suggested modifications in the schedules of this title, as
determined by studies, engineering, traffic surveys, or experience, and as
verified by temporary posting of signs as hereinbefore described.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.30 PROCEDURE ON ARREST; NOTICE TO APPEAR.
   Except when authorized or directed by state law to immediately take a person
arrested for a violation of any of the traffic laws of the state or of the
ordinances of the town before a law enforcement officer upon making an arrest
for violation of the traffic laws of the state or the town, shall take the
name, address, and operator’s license number of the alleged violator, and the
registration number of the vehicle involved, and shall issue to him or her on
the form prescribed in this title, a notice to answer to the charge against him
or her, at a place and at a time to be specified in the notice to appear. The
officer, upon receiving the written promise to appear of the alleged violator,
shall release that person from custody.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 70.31 NOTIFICATION FORMS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall provide in quadruplicate, suitable, serially
numbered forms for notifying violators to appear and answer to the charges of
violating traffic laws and ordinances.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall report each month to the Town Council the
disposal made by the town of all arrest forms issued.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 70.32 NOTICE OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or stopped in
violation of any of the restrictions imposed by this title and other ordinances
relating to traffic, then the officer finding the vehicle shall take its
registration number and may take any other information displayed on the vehicle
which may identify its owner or user, and shall conspicuously affix to the
vehicle a notice in writing on a quadruplicate form provided by the Town
Council for the driver to answer to the charge against him or her during the
hours and at the place specified in the notice.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 70.33 FAILURE TO APPEAR; COMPLAINT FILED.
   If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing, or parking under
this title or other ordinances relating to traffic of this town, does not
appear in response to the notice affixed to the vehicle within a period of 72
hours, a complaint shall be filed and a warrant of arrest issued.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 70.34 INTERFERING WITH NOTICE PROHIBITED.
   No person, whether the recipient thereof or otherwise, shall willfully throw
away, alter, mar, mutilate, destroy, or discard the written notice described in
this title.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.35 ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE; PRESUMPTION OF RESPONSIBILITY.
   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation governing
the parking or standing of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle
described in the notice to appear was parked in violation of the law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of that violation the registered owner of the vehicle, will
constitute prima facie evidence that the registered owner was the person who
parked the vehicle at the time and place and for the time during which the
violation occurred.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 70.36 FINES AND FORFEITURES; PAYMENT AND DISPOSITION.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating and found guilty by plea of
any portion of this Traffic Code of the town which regulates the use, standing,
or parking of vehicles upon streets, alleys, or other public places, may, in
lieu of being charged for that violation in County Court, pay to the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town a penalty in an amount as set forth in the provisions of
the Town Code. In addition, the violator shall be assessed court costs and any
other fees as shall be set and required by state statute.
   (B)   The payment of fine shall be deposited in General Fund of the town.
The Clerk-Treasurer shall forward court costs and any other state-mandated fees
to the Clerk of the County Court for distribution in accordance with state
statutes.
   (C)   The penalties shall be paid within ten days of the date of the
violation. Upon failure of the payment of the penalty herein prescribed in
accordance with the provisions hereof, violators shall be charged forthwith in
the County Court pursuant to state law.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.37 MOVING OFFENSES; JURISDICTION.
   Whenever a person commits a violation of any moving offense on a state
highway within the town, then the prosecution shall be under the applicable
state statute, if any, and not under the provisions of this title. In all other
cases, violators of the provisions of this title shall be charged and
prosecuted under this title.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000) Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC DEFERRAL PROGRAM
§ 70.45 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Town of Winfield, Lake County, Indiana, hereby establishes a Town
Deferral Program pursuant to I.C. 34-28-5 et seq., as amended from time to
time, to be known as the "Town Deferral Program".
(Ord. 247, passed 8-25-2015)
§ 70.46 ELIGIBILITY.
   An individual who has been issued a citation for a moving traffic violation,
or other infraction(s) and/or ordinance violation(s) in the town by the
Sheriff's Department, shall be eligible to participate in the Town Deferral
Program if the individual:
   (A)   Has not been charged with a moving traffic violation or other
infraction(s) and/or ordinance violation(s), that are associated with property
damage, personal injury, or other related criminal charges;
   (B)   Has not been charged with any other moving violation in any state
within the last 12 months; and
   (C)   Has not been charged with an offense of speeding in excess of 30 miles
per hour over the posted speed limit.
(Ord. 247, passed 8-25-2015)
§ 70.47 APPLICATION.
   An individual who is eligible and seeks to participate in the Town Deferral
Program (hereinafter "applicant") shall complete the Town Deferral Program
Application Agreement located at the Winfield Town Hall and the Lake County
Sheriff's Department. The town shall verify that the applicant is eligible for
the Town Deferral Program.
(Ord. 247, passed 8-25-2015)
§ 70.48 FEES.
   (A)   At the time of the application submission, the applicant shall pay the
following in accordance with the provisions under I.C. 33-37-4 et seq., namely:
      (1)   Current court costs, pursuant to the provisions of the Indiana
Code, as amended from time to time;
      (2)   An initial user fee pursuant to the provisions of the Indiana Code,
as amended from time to time: and
      (3)   Monthly user fees of $10 per month, or as otherwise specified in
applicable law as amended from time to time, for each of the six months the
applicant is in the Town Deferral Program.
   (B)   The total amount of the court costs and fees identified above shall be
made payable to the Clerk, Lake Superior Court, in the form of a certified
check, money order, or cashier's check. The fees paid by the applicant are non-
refundable and shall not be applied to the fine in the event that the applicant
fails to properly and successfully follow and complete the requirements of the
Town Deferral Program. The court costs shall be distributed as required for
traffic violations pursuant to I.C. 33-37-7 et seq. One hundred percent of the
initial user fee and monthly user fees shall be deposited in the town's General
Fund upon proper processing by the Lake County Clerk's Office.
(Ord. 247, passed 8-25-2015)
§ 70.49 PROCEDURE.
   The town shall then file the applicant's citation with the Lake County
Superior Court. After assignment of a cause number and at the next regularly
scheduled Town Court date, the Town Attorney shall file the executed Deferral
Program Application Agreement in the Lake County Superior Court together with
the court costs and fees. The Sheriff's Department shall review the applicant's
driving record six months after the filing of said Agreement (hereinafter
"review period"). In the event that no new moving traffic violations,
infractions and/or ordinance violations have been issued to the applicant, the
Town Attorney shall dismiss the original citation for a moving violation,
infraction and/or ordinance violation. In the event that the applicant has been
issued a citation for a moving violation, infraction and/or ordinance violation
within the review period, or otherwise does not comply with terms of the Town
Deferral Program, the Town Attorney shall institute further proceedings against
the applicant based upon the original citation.
(Ord. 247, passed 8-25-2015)
§ 70.50 IMPLEMENTATION.
   The Town Attorney, Sheriff's Department, and Town Clerk-Treasurer are hereby
authorized to develop the appropriate forms and related materials necessary to
facilitate the Town Deferral Program.
(Ord. 247, passed 8-25-2015)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating one or more of the provisions of this title
shall, upon conviction before any court of law, pay a fine for each offense.
Each day that the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The Town Building Official or the Clerk-Treasurer, after consultation
with the Town Council, shall have the authority, at his or her option, to
designate to the Town Attorney the amount of any fine to be requested of the
court in any matter of the trial of any violation of this title in which the
defendant is found liable.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
71.001   Town Council; enforcement authority
   
71.002   Police and Fire Department officers; authority
   
71.003   Obedience to Police and Fire Department officers required
   
71.004   Pedestrian obedience to traffic-control signals required
Processions and Parades; Permits
   
71.015   Permits required; exemptions
   
71.016   Permit applications
   
71.017   Standards for permit issuance
   
71.018   Notice of denial
   
71.019   Alternate permit
   
71.020   Permit content
   
71.021   Funeral processions; driving rules
   
71.022   Driving through funeral procession restricted
Driving Rules
   
71.035   Backing restricted
   
71.036   Driving on sidewalks restricted
   
71.037   Boarding or alighting from vehicles
   
71.038   Unlawful riding
   
71.039   Restricted streets; truck use restricted
   
71.040   U-turns prohibited
   
71.041   Safety belt requirements; exceptions
   
71.042   Use of compression release engine brakes
Traffic-Control Devices
   
71.055   Installation authority
   
71.056   Manual and specifications
   
71.057   Compliance required
   
71.058   When required for enforcement purposes
   
71.059   Traffic-control signals
   
71.060   Display of unauthorized signs, signals, or markings prohibited
   
71.061   Interference with official signs, signals, or devices prohibited
Stops and Yields
   
71.075   Designated through streets; right-of-way; sign requirements
   
71.076   Stop signs; stop required
   
71.077   Stop when traffic obstructed
   
71.078   Railroad crossings; required stops
One-Way Streets and Alleys
   
71.090   Authority to post signs
   
71.091   Direction of travel; compliance required
Speed Regulations
   
71.105   State law applies
   
71.106   Posted speed limits; compliance required
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt local traffic regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-2
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.001 TOWN COUNCIL; ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   It shall be the duty of the officials of Town Council to enforce the
provisions of this title and all state laws applicable to street traffic in
this town.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 71.002 POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICERS; AUTHORITY.
   The Chiefs of the Fire Department and Police Department, and their officers,
are authorized to direct all traffic either in person or by means of visible or
audible signal in conformance with all traffic laws and ordinances, provided
that in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the County Police Department or Fire
Department may direct traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding the
provisions of this title.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 71.003 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICERS REQUIRED.
   The Chief of the Fire Department and his or her officers are herein
sometimes referred to as Fire Department officials and the County Police
Department sometimes are referred to as police officers, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to comply with any lawful order,
signal, or direction of a Chief of the Fire Department or a fireperson, when
acting in accordance with § 71.002.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.004 PEDESTRIAN OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS REQUIRED.
   At intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals, the
movement of pedestrians shall be regulated by traffic signals as hereinafter
set out.
   (A)   Traffic-control signals. At an intersection controlled by traffic-
control signals exhibiting the words Go, Caution, or Stop, or exhibiting
different colored lights successively, pedestrians shall move as follows.
      (1)   Green or Go. Pedestrians facing a traffic-control signal showing
green or exhibiting the word Go may proceed across the roadway within any
marked or unmarked crosswalk.
      (2)   Yellow or Caution. Pedestrians facing a traffic-control signal
exhibiting or showing yellow or exhibiting the word Caution are advised that
there is insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then
starting to cross shall yield the right-of-way.
      (3)   Red or Stop. Pedestrians facing a traffic-control signal showing
red or exhibiting the word Stop shall not enter the roadway unless it can be
done safely and without interfering with vehicular traffic.
   (B)   Pedestrian-control signals. Whenever pedestrian-control signals
exhibiting the words Walk or Wait are in place, these signals shall indicate as
follows.
      (1)   Walk. Pedestrians facing this signal may proceed across the roadway
in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the
drivers of all vehicles.
      (2)    Wait or Don’t walk. No pedestrians shall start to cross the
roadway in the direction of this signal, but any pedestrian who has partially
completed his or her crossing on the Walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk
while the Wait or Don’t walk signal is showing.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Pedestrians, see I.C. 9-21-17-1 through 9-21-17-24
PROCESSIONS AND PARADES; PERMITS
§ 71.015 PERMITS REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Permit required. No procession or parade, with the exception of the
United States Military or the military forces of the state and the forces of
the County Police Department and Fire Department, shall occupy, march, or
proceed along any street except and in accordance with a permit approved by the
Town Council and issued by the Clerk-Treasurer and with those other regulations
as are set forth herein which apply.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PARADE or PROCESSION. Any PARADE, march, ceremony, show, exhibition,
pageant, or PROCESSION of any kind, or any similar display, in or upon any
street or other public place.
   (C)   Exemptions. This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, provided this conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities; or
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate processions, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
§ 71.016 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   A person desiring a parade permit shall file an application with the
Town Council on forms provided by the town. The application shall be filed not
less than 60 days before the date on which it is proposed to conduct the
parade, or such other time as the Town Council deems appropriate and acceptable
if lesser time is requested in the application.
   (B)   The applicant for a parade permit shall file an application with the
Town Council which shall set forth and contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
any organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters
of the organization, and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons who, and animals and vehicles
which, will constitute the parade; the type of animals, and the description and
license plate information of any vehicles that will be used. Vehicles that are
not registered with the required description and license plate information will
not be permitted to participate in the parade;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets proposed to be traveled;
      (9)   The location by streets of any assembly areas for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file
with the Town Council a communication in writing from the person proposing to
hold the parade, authorizing the applicant to apply for the permit on his or
her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information which the town shall find reasonably
necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should be issued.
   (C)   The Town Council, where good cause is shown therefor, shall have the
authority to consider any application hereunder which is filed less than seven
days before the date the parade is proposed to be conducted.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000; Am. Ord. 84B, passed 6-26-2012)
§ 71.017 STANDARDS FOR PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   The Town Council shall issue a parade permit when, from a consideration of
the application and from other information as may otherwise be obtained, they
find that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the sane or
orderly movement of traffic contiguous to its routes;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of this town to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to this
town;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of this
town other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
or ambulance service to areas contiguous thereto;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The conduct of the parade is not reasonably likely to cause injury to
person or property, to provoke disorderly conduct, or to create a disturbance;
   (G)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route; and
   (H)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, cause, goods, or events and is not designed to be held purely for
private profit.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 71.018 NOTICE OF DENIAL.
   If the Town Council disapproves the application for a parade permit, they
shall mail to the applicant within three days after the date upon which the
application was filed, a notice of their action.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 71.019 ALTERNATE PERMIT.
   (A)   The Town Council, in denying an application for a permit, shall be
empowered to authorize the conduct of the parade on a date, at a time, or over
a route different from that named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to
accept an alternate permit shall, within five days after notice of the action
of the Town Council, file a written notice of acceptance with the Town Council.
   (B)   An alternate parade permit shall conform to the requirements of, and
shall have the effect of a parade permit under this subchapter.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 71.020 PERMIT CONTENT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the streets to be traversed that may be occupied by
the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Any other information as the Town Council shall find necessary to the
enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 71.021 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS; DRIVING RULES.
   (A)   A funeral procession composed of vehicles may be identified as such by
the display upon the outside of each vehicle of a paint of the type designated
by the Town Council, or shall drive with headlights turned on and hazard
blinkers activated.
   (B)   Each driver in a funeral procession shall drive as near to the right
hand edge of the roadway as is practicable and safe.
   (C)   Each mortician shall notify the Clerk-Treasurer of the day and the
hour of each funeral procession to be had by him or her in the town, together
with the proposed route thereof, as far ahead of the proposed time as possible.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Funeral processions, see I.C. 9-21-13-1 through 9-21-13-7
§ 71.022 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL PROCESSION RESTRICTED.
   No driver of a vehicle, except an emergency vehicle, shall drive between the
vehicles comprising a funeral procession or other authorized procession while
they are in motion and when those vehicles are conspicuously designated as
required in this subchapter. This provision shall not apply at an intersection
where traffic is controlled by a traffic-control signal or any police officer
or designated town personnel, and shall not apply to authorized emergency
vehicles.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
DRIVING RULES
§ 71.035 BACKING RESTRICTED.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not back that vehicle into an intersection
or over a crosswalk, and shall not in any event or at any place back a vehicle
against the current of traffic, except to back into a parallel parking space or
to back out of a designated angle parking place. No vehicle shall be backed
over a public sidewalk except where necessary; and where it is necessary the
driver shall either sound his or her horn or halt before crossing the sidewalk.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.036 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall not drive over any sidewalk area
except at a permanent or temporary driveway, nor park within a sidewalk area.
No vehicle shall be driven over or across the curb of any street except as
above provided.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to go upon any sidewalk
with any vehicle or animal except in the necessary act of crossing that
sidewalk, and it shall be unlawful for any person or persons to ride upon any
sidewalk in the town upon any bicycle, motorcycle, horse, mule, pony, ox, cow,
wagon, or buggy, or other vehicle propelled by man or beast or by mechanical
power.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.037 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while that vehicle is in
motion, and no person shall alight on the roadway side from any vehicle.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.038 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee of the town or state engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.039 RESTRICTED STREETS; TRUCK USE RESTRICTED.
   (A)   From and after the taking effect of this chapter, all streets and
alleys of the town except those set out in Chapter 75, Schedule II shall be
designated as restricted streets, and it shall be unlawful for the driver of
any truck, excepting trucks in the following three categories, to drive upon
same except for the purpose of making a delivery to the business in the block
in which the vehicle is being driven:
      (1)   Those of less than five-tons' rated capacity;
      (2)   House moving vans; and
      (3)   Construction vehicles.
   (B)   Any driver making a delivery on a restricted street shall enter same
at the first intersection nearest the point of delivery and leave same at the
first intersection after the delivery.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person who violates this section and chapter shall be
subject to the following penalty and fine schedule:
      (1)   The penalty for an initial violation of this section shall be in
the amount of $250 for the first violation; thereafter, the penalty shall be
$500 for a second and each subsequent violation occurring within a consecutive
12 month period.
      (2)   Each occurrence shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000; Am. Ord. 84-I, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 71.040 U-TURNS PROHIBITED.
   No driver of any vehicle shall make a U-turn on any street or at any
intersection within the town.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   U-turns, see I.C. 9-21-8-19
§ 71.041 SAFETY BELT REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Safety belts. Each front seat occupant of a passenger motor vehicle
that is equipped with a safety belt meeting the standards stated in the Federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 201 (49 CFR 571.201) shall have a safety
belt properly fastened about the occupant’s body at all times when the vehicle
is in forward motion.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLE. Includes buses, school buses, and private buses,
and excludes trucks, tractors, and recreational vehicles.
   (C)   Exceptions. The terms of division (A) above do not apply to a front
seat occupant who:
      (1)   For medical reasons should not wear safety belts;
      (2)   Is required to be restrained under the child passenger restraint
law I.C.9-19-11;
      (3)   Is traveling in a commercial or a United States Postal Service
vehicle that makes frequent stops for the purpose of pick-up or delivery of
goods or services;
      (4)   Is a rural carrier of the United States Postal Service and is
operating a vehicle while serving a rural postal route;
      (5)   Is a newspaper motor route carrier or newspaper bundle hauler who
stops to make deliveries from his or her vehicle; or
      (6)   Is a driver examiner designated and appointed under I.C. 9-14-2-
3 and is conducting an examination of an applicant for a permit or license
under I.C. 9-24-10.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 71.042 USE OF COMPRESSION RELEASE ENGINE BRAKES.
   (A)   Definition. As used in this section, COMPRESSION RELEASE ENGINE BRAKE
means a hydraulically operated device that converts a power producing diesel
engine into a power absorbing retarding mechanism.
Statutory reference:
Similar definition, see I.C. § 9-21-8-44.5
   (B)   Prohibition. All motor vehicles are prohibited from using compression
release engine brakes within the corporate boundaries of the town, except in
the event of the failure of a vehicle’s service brake system.
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Each violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine as
follows:
 
First offense                      $100;
Second offense                     $250;
Third offense                      $400;
Fourth offense                     $600;
Each additional offense thereafter $600.
 
      (2)   However, no agent or employee acting under the direction, rules, or
orders of the firm, company, or corporation shall be fined for violation(s) of
this section.
(Ord. 348, passed 4-25-2023)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 71.055 INSTALLATION AUTHORITY.
   The County Police, the County Highway Department, and any designated person,
pursuant to the order of the Town Council, shall cause to be placed and
maintained traffic-control signs, signals, and devices when and as required
under this title and the traffic ordinances of this town to make effective the
provisions of those ordinances.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 71.056 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   All traffic-control signs, signals, and devices shall conform to the manual
and specifications approved by the State Highway Commission. All signs and
signals required hereunder for a particular purpose shall, so far as
practicable, be uniform as to type and location throughout the town. All
traffic-control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of
state law or this title shall be official traffic-control devices.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 71.057 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The driver of every vehicle shall obey the instructions of any
official traffic-control device applicable thereto and placed in accordance
with the ordinances of this town, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer, a member of the Fire Department, or designated town personnel.
   (B)   In the event that the traffic-control device is not working, then the
driver of every vehicle shall consider that the traffic-control device requires
bringing the vehicle to a complete stop, prior to proceeding through the
intersection.
   (C)   Penalty. The penalty for an initial violation of this section for
failure to comply with a traffic-control device shall be a fine of $50;
thereafter, the penalty shall be $100 for a second violation; and thereafter
$250 for a third and each subsequent violation occurring within a consecutive
12 month period. Each occurrence shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000; Am. Ord. 84-K, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 71.058 WHEN REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES.
   No provision of this title for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if at the time of the alleged violation an official
sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an
ordinarily observant person.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 71.059 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   (A)   Steady signals. Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control
signals, exhibiting the words Go, Caution, or Stop, or exhibiting different
colored lights successively, the following colors only shall be used and these
terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles as follows:
      (1)   Green alone or Go. Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left, unless a sign at that place prohibits
either turn. Vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles
and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time the signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Yellow or Caution. When this is shown with or following the green
or Go signal, vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering
the nearest crosswalk at the intersection, but if the stop cannot be made in
safety, the vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
      (3)   Red alone or Stop. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection, or at some other
point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain standing
until green or Go is shown.
      (4)   Green arrow. Vehicular traffic facing this signal may cautiously
enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by the arrow, but
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk.
   (B)   Signals not at an intersection. In the event an official traffic-
control signal is erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection,
the provisions of these sections of this code shall be applicable except as to
those provisions which by their very nature can have no application. Any stop
required shall be made at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating where
the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any indicating sign or marking
the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (C)   Specific intersections. Traffic-control signals shall be located at
the intersections as provided in Chapter 75, Schedule I of this code.
   (D)   Flashing signals. Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used,
they shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
      (1)   Flashing red or Stop signal. When a red light is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection of streets and/or streets and railroads,
or at a limit line when marked, or if none, then before entering the
intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable
after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow or Caution signal. When a yellow light is
illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed
through the intersection or past that signal only with caution.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control devices, see I.C. 9-21-4-1 through 9-21-4-19
§ 71.060 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, OR MARKINGS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of
any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to
be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official
traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal. No person shall place or
maintain, nor shall any public authority permit upon any highway, any traffic
sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
      (2)   This shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (B)    Every above prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.061 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL SIGNS, SIGNALS, OR DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to, or in fact, alter,
deface, injure, knock down, obscure, or remove any official traffic-control
device, sign, or street name sign, or any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any other part thereof.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
STOPS AND YIELDS
§ 71.075 DESIGNATED THROUGH STREETS; RIGHT-OF-WAY; SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Those streets and parts of streets designated in Chapter 75, Schedule
III of this code are declared to be through streets for the purpose of this
chapter.
   (B)   Through streets shall have the right-of-way over all other streets
except intersecting through streets, in which case the state law governing
right-of-way shall govern unless the right-of-way at the intersection is
governed by traffic signals or stop signs under this title.
   (C)   Whenever any ordinance of this town designates and describes a through
street, it shall be the duty of the Town Council or its designated personnel to
place and maintain a stop sign on each and every street intersecting that
through street unless otherwise provided by this title.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 71.076 STOP SIGNS; STOP REQUIRED.
   (A)   Stop signs. When stop signs are erected upon streets intersecting a
through street at the entrance thereto or at the entrance to any intersection
designated in Chapter 75, Schedule IV of this code, every driver of a vehicle
shall stop at every sign or at a clearly marked stop line before entering the
intersection.
   (B)   Four-way stop signs. When stop signs are erected upon all four streets
at any intersection as may be so designated, every vehicle shall stop at every
stop sign or at a clearly marked stop line before entering the intersection.
The first vehicle reaching an intersection shall, after stopping, have the
right-of-way to proceed.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person who violates this section and chapter shall be
subject to the following penalty and fine schedule:
      (1)   The penalty for an initial violation of this section shall be a
fine of $50 for the first violation; thereafter, the penalty shall be a fine of
$100 for a second violation; and thereafter, the penalty shall be $250 for a
third and each subsequent violation occurring within a 12 month period.
      (2)   Each occurrence shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000; Am. Ord. 84-G, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 71.077 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.078 RAILROAD CROSSINGS; REQUIRED STOPS.
   (A)   Protected railroad crossings. All vehicles and the operators of all
vehicles shall stop wherever any protected railroad grade crossing indicates
the presence of a train by flashing lights, lowering or raising of gates, or
the extinguishment of a green light, or by means of any other automatic
crossing protection which indicates the fact that a train is approaching the
crossing and the automatic crossing protection begins to function.
   (B)   Unguarded crossings. It shall be the duty of the operator of every
motor vehicle approaching any railroad grade crossing which is not protected by
an automatic crossing protection consisting of either gates or red flashing
lights, to bring his or her automobile or vehicle to a stop within 50 feet of
the nearest rail, and he or she shall then look to the right and to the left
and ascertain that it is safe to proceed before proceeding across the crossing.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Railroad crossings, see I.C. 9-21-4-16
ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 71.090 AUTHORITY TO POST SIGNS.
   Whenever this title designates any one-way street or alley, the Town Council
shall direct the placement of signs giving notice thereof, and no such
regulation shall be effective unless these signs are in place. Signs indicating
the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection
where movement of traffic is permitted in one direction only.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Statutory reference:
   One-way highways, see I.C. 9-21-4-14
§ 71.091 DIRECTION OF TRAVEL; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Upon those streets and alleys hereafter designated by the Town Council,
vehicles shall move only in the indicated direction of travel.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 71.105 STATE LAW APPLIES.
   The speed limits as set forth in the state statutes shall be applicable upon
all streets within the town except as this title, as authorized by state law,
declares and determines upon the basis of engineering and/or traffic
investigation that certain speed regulations shall be applicable upon specified
streets, in which event it shall be prima facie unlawful for any person to
drive a vehicle in excess of any speed so declared in this title, when signs
are in place giving notice thereof.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.106 POSTED SPEED LIMITS; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No driver of any vehicle shall exceed the posted speed limit on public
streets in the town as established by Schedule VII, as amended from time to
time, established by the Town Council, upon those streets or portions thereof
described in the schedule. Such speed limits so declared thereon shall be
effective at all times when signs are erected giving notice thereof. Nothing
herein shall be interpreted so as to modify any speed limit set by the State
Highway Commission or the Board of County Commissioners of Lake County,
Indiana. Any person who violates this section and chapter shall be subject to
the following penalty and fine schedule. The penalty for a violation of this
section, for exceeding the posted speed limit by one to nine miles per hour,
shall be a fine in the amount of $25 for each violation. The penalty for a
violation of this section, for exceeding the posted speed limit by ten or more
miles per hour shall be a fine in the amount of $75 for each violation. Fines
established hereby are not inclusive of any other jurisdictional costs,
expenses, or charges imposed by any Court of competent jurisdiction or agency
authorized to impose and collect such additional costs, expenses or charges.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000; Am. Ord. 84-C, passed 12-18-2012; Am. Ord. 84-L,
passed 2-24-2015)
CHAPTER 72: OFF-ROAD VEHICLES AND MOTORIZED BICYCLES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Operation regulations
Snowmobiles and Off-Road Vehicles
   
72.15   Operation restrictions
   
72.16   Required equipment
Motorized Bicycles
   
72.30   Registration and licensing
   
72.31   Traffic regulations
   
72.32   Operation regulations
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Off-road vehicles including snowmobiles, see I.C. 14-16 et seq.
   Operate defined, see I.C. 9-13-2-117.5
   Operator defined, see I.C. 9-13-2-118
   Owner defined, see I.C. 9-13-2-121
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE. A bicycle with or without operable pedals and an internal
combustion engine or battery-powered motor, which may be propelled by human
power or by an internal combustion engine or battery-powered motor, or by both,
and, when powered by an internal combustion engine, having a rating of no more
than 1.5-brake horsepower, and a cylinder capacity not exceeding 50 cubic
centimeters, an automatic transmission, and a maximum design speed of not more
than 25 miles per hour on a flat surface.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE. Any motor driven vehicle capable of cross country travel,
without benefit of a road or trail, on or immediately over land, water, snow,
ice, marsh, swampland, or other natural terrain. The term includes, but is not
limited to, a multi-wheel drive or low pressure tire vehicle, amphibious
vehicle, ground effect air cushion vehicle, mini-bike, snowmobile, or other
means of transportation deriving motive power from a source other than muscle
or wind. The term does not include a farm vehicle used for military or law
enforcement purposes, construction, mining, or other industrial related
vehicles used in performance of its common function or a registered aircraft.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on, to drive, to use, to put into action, cause to
function, or to be in actual physical control of a vehicle as defined herein.
The term shall include any form or tense thereof.
   OPERATOR. Any person who drives, operates, or is in actual physical control
of a vehicle defined herein.
   OWNER. A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle, or in the event a
vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee; or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then the conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the OWNER for the purpose of this chapter.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   SNOWMOBILE. An off-road vehicle utilizing an engine to propel it and
designed for travel primarily on snow or ice of any type, utilizing sled type
runners or skis, or an endless belt tread, or any combination of these or other
similar means of contact with the surface upon which it is operated.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 72.02 OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall board or alight from any off-road vehicle or motorized
bicycle while that vehicle or bicycle is in motion, and no person shall alight
on the roadway side from any off-road vehicle or motorized bicycle.
   (B)   No person shall ride on any off-road vehicle or motorized bicycle upon
any portion thereof not designated or intended for the use of passengers.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 72.99
SNOWMOBILES AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
§ 72.15 OPERATION RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile or off-road
vehicle under the following circumstances:
   (A)   On the private property of another without the express permission to
do so by the owner or occupant of that property;
   (B)   On public school grounds, park property, playgrounds, and recreational
areas without express provision or permission to do so by the proper public
authority and the execution of a waiver of liability form;
   (C)   On any street or sidewalk within the town; provided, however, that the
Police Department may authorize use of a snowmobile or off-road vehicle on the
public streets, highways, and rights-of-way within its jurisdiction during
emergencies when conventional motor vehicles cannot be used for transportation
due to snow or other extreme highway conditions;
   (D)   In a manner so as to create loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise so as
to disturb or interfere with the reasonable peace and quiet of other persons;
   (E)   In a careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to endanger the
safety of any person or the property of any other person; or
   (F)   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor, which includes but
is not limited to fermented malt beverages, or controlled substances, or drugs.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 72.99
Cross-reference:
   Operation regulations for off-road vehicles and motorized bicycles, see §
72.02
§ 72.16 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All snowmobiles and off-road vehicles operated within the town shall
have the following equipment:
      (1)   Mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the noise of
operation of the vehicle to the minimum noise necessary for operating the
vehicle; and no person shall use a muffler cut-out, bypass, or similar device
on the vehicle;
      (2)   Adequate brakes in good working condition and at least one
headlight and one taillight; and
      (3)   A safety or so-called deadman throttle in operating condition.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SAFETY OR DEADMAN THROTTLE. A device which when pressure is removed from
the accelerator or throttle causes a motor to be disengaged from driving tract.
   (C)   It is unlawful for the owner or operator of a snowmobile or off-road
vehicle to leave or allow that vehicle to be or remain unattended on public
property while the motor is running or with the keys for starting the vehicle
left in the ignition.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 72.99
MOTORIZED BICYCLES
§ 72.30 REGISTRATION AND LICENSING.
   (A)   Every motorized bicycle, either owned by a resident of the town, or
stored within the town (excepting motorized bicycles held primarily for resale
in the ordinary course of business), shall be registered and licensed with the
state Bureau of Motor Vehicles within ten days after a person becomes the owner
of that motorized bicycle, or commences the storage of the motorized bicycle.
The license issued for the year shall expire annually on December 31 of the
year of registration and issuance of the license. Each motorized bicycle shall
be re-registered and re-licensed on or before the expiration of any existing
license, and the renewal shall be on an annual basis.
   (B)   Every person required to register a motorized bicycle shall complete
those registration forms as are adopted from time to time by the state Bureau
of Motor Vehicles.
   (C)   Any person 15 years of age or older owning a motorized bicycle shall
obtain a license for each motorized bicycle from the Police Department. No
license shall be issued to, or for the benefit of, any person under the age of
15 years.
   (D)   Each person filing an application for registration and issuance of a
license for a motorized bicycle shall pay a fee of $10 dollars for each
motorized bicycle so registered and licensed.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a motorized bicycle license to each
eligible applicant who has completed the registration form and paid the
required license fee. The license shall contain the number assigned to the
vehicle and the name of the town.
   (F)   A motorized bicycle license is not transferable.
   (G)   A motorized bicycle license shall be affixed to and maintained upon
the motorized bicycle registered for license, and in a position so as to be
plainly visible from the rear. No person shall remove a license from a
motorized bicycle during the period for which it is issued, except upon a
transfer of ownership, or when so removed by the Police Department. Upon the
sale or other transfer of a licensed motorized bicycle, the licensee shall
remove the license.
   (H)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep on file a list of registrations of
motorized bicycles for official use, and the license application shall include
the name of the owner, address, telephone number, make of motorized bicycle,
type, size, color, and manufacturer serial number, if any.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.31 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Operators of motorized bicycles on a public highway or public path
shall be subject to the provisions of traffic laws of the state and the town
applicable to the operation of motor vehicles generally, subject to the special
regulations in this subchapter, and excepting those provisions of the traffic
laws which by their nature can have no application.
   (B)   A motorized bicycle shall not be operated by any person under the age
of 15 years.
   (C)   Operators of a motorized bicycle shall obey the directions and
instructions of official traffic-control devices and signals, signs, and other
control devices applicable to vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   (D)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left,
or U-turns are permitted, no person operating a motorized bicycle shall disobey
the direction of any of these signs, except where that person dismounts from
the vehicle to make the turn, in which event the person shall obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
   (E)   A person operating a motorized bicycle shall ride only upon the
permanent and regular seat attached thereto, nor shall the operator permit any
passengers in excess of the number allowed for by the design and number of
seats of the vehicle.
   (F)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing, and the operator of
a motorized bicycle may not exceed the speed of 25 miles per hour or the posted
speed limit, whichever is lesser.
   (G)   Every person operating a motorized bicycle shall drive as near to the
right hand side of the roadway as is possible, and in single file when passing
other vehicles, parked or moving, or any other considerable object on the
highway.
   (H)   The operator of a motorized bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway,
or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk, yield the right-of-way to all
pedestrians approaching on that sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering
the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles on the roadway close
enough to constitute a hazard.
   (I)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall attach the same or
himself or herself to any vehicle upon a public highway or public path.
   (J)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry any package,
bundle, or article which prevents the operator from keeping both hands upon the
handlebars.
   (K)   Trick riding is prohibited. The hands of the operator of a motorized
bicycle shall be on the handlebars at all times, except while in the act of
signaling.
   (L)   No operator of a motorized bicycle shall cause or permit a motorized
bicycle to curve side to side.
   (M)   No person shall park a motorized bicycle in a manner so as to
interfere with the normal flow of pedestrian traffic, vehicular parking, or
vehicular flow of traffic.
   (N)   The operation of motorized bicycles upon sidewalks is prohibited.
   (O)   Every motorized bicycle operated on a public highway during the period
from one-half hour after sunset until one-half hour before sunrise, shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front exhibiting a white light visible from a
distance of at least 500 feet to the front and with a lamp on the rear
exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear. In lieu
of this rear lighted red lamp on motorized bicycles, a red reflector glass
button not less than one and one-half inches in diameter, or red reflecting
tape of not less than four square inches, may be mounted securely on the rear
mudguard, or by placing a mudguard on the rear of the saddle.
   (P)   No person shall ride a motorized bicycle unless it is equipped with a
horn or other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of 100
feet or more.
   (Q)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will
enable the operator to make the braked wheels slow down and stop on dry, level,
or clean pavement.
   (R)   Every person operating a motorized bicycle shall employ the use of
hand signals in the manner provided by state law for turning or changing lanes
if the vehicle is not equipped with a lighted turn signal device.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.32 OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   No person under the age of 18 years shall ride upon or operate a motorized
bicycle without:
   (A)   Wearing protective headgear meeting the standards established by the
United States Department of Transportation under 49 CFR 571.211 in effect
January 1, 1979; and
   (B)   Wearing protective glasses, goggles, or a transparent face shield.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 72.99
Cross-reference:
   Operation regulations for off-road vehicles and motorized bicycles, see §
72.02
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   No parent or guardian shall authorize or knowingly permit his or her
child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this chapter relating to
motorized bicycles.
   (B)   Any person violating any section of this chapter, in lieu of being
charged for that violation in a court of competent jurisdiction, may pay a fine
to the Clerk-Treasurer within five days after receiving notice of a violation.
If the fine is not paid by the person within five days after being advised of
the violation and his or her right to pay in lieu of being charged, the person
shall be charged with the violation in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the town’s departments to furnish a copy of
the violation to the Clerk-Treasurer within 24 hours after the issuance of the
violation.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Registration required
   
73.02   Inspections
   
73.03   Usage regulations
   
73.04   Equipment requirements
   
73.05   Compliance with traffic regulations required
 
   
73.98   Violations
Statutory reference:
   Authority for bicycle regulation and licensing and registration fees, see
I.C. 9-21-11-1 et seq.
   Bicycles and related equipment defined, see I.C. 9-13-2-14
§ 73.01 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every bicycle operated within the corporate limits of the town shall
be registered with the Town Clerk-Treasurer, on or before December 30 each
year.
   (B)   The registration shall include the name of the owner, the make, model,
and serial number of the bicycle, and the date of purchase or acquisition.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 73.02 INSPECTIONS.
   As a condition of registration, each bicycle shall be inspected by the
personnel designated by the Town Council or its representatives and shall be
required to comply with the sections set forth in § 73.04 below concerning
lamps and brakes.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 73.03 USAGE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon the
permanent and regular seat attached thereto; nor carry any other person upon
the bicycle otherwise than upon a firmly attached and regular seat thereon; nor
shall any person ride upon a bicycle, otherwise than as above stated.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it was equipped.
   (C)   Any person upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, or toy vehicle
shall not attach the same or himself or herself to any streetcar or vehicle
upon a roadway.
   (D)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use
of bicycles.
   (E)   No person riding a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the rider from keeping both hands upon the handlebars.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.04 EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lamps. Every bicycle operating upon a highway from one-half hour after
sunset until one-half hour before sunrise, shall be equipped with a lamp on the
front exhibiting a white light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to
the front and with a lamp on the rear exhibiting a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear; except that a red reflector meeting the
requirements of this division may be used in lieu of a rear light.
   (B)   Brakes. Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable
the operator to cause the braked wheels to slow down and stop on dry, level, or
clean pavement.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21- 2000)
§ 73.05 COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be subject to the
provisions of this Traffic Code of the town, except as to those provisions of
the code which by their nature can have no application to this chapter.
   (B)   The operator of any bicycle upon any public highway shall observe each
and all of the regulations and requirements of the Uniform Act regulating
traffic on highways of the state and the rules of the road of the state as
these apply to the usage of the right lane of the highway in travel, the
stoppage and proceeding in accord with traffic signals, and the utilization of
prescribed manual signs for the guidance of other traffic.
   (C)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit that child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this act.
   (D)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any highway or any path set aside for the exclusive
use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 73.98 VIOLATIONS.
   It is an ordinance violation for any person to do any act forbidden by this
chapter or fail to perform any act required by this chapter.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 74: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Parking Restrictions
   
74.01   Stand or park close to curb
   
74.02   Angle parking prohibited
   
74.03   Lights on parked vehicle
   
74.04   Parking on private property; consent required
   
74.05   Street parking; 96-hour limit; permit exception
   
74.06   Stopping, standing, parking; prohibited places
   
74.07   Obstruction of street traffic prohibited
   
74.08   Parking in alleys; obstruction prohibited
   
74.09   Vehicles with live animals; parking time limit
   
74.10   Prohibited commercial vehicle/truck parking in commercial, planned
development commercial and planned development mixed zoning districts
Freight and Passenger Loading Zones
   
74.20   Temporary loading zones; authority to designate
   
74.21   Loading zone permits
   
74.22   Permanent freight loading zones
Parking Restrictions in Designated Areas
   
74.35   Application
   
74.36   Regulations not exclusive
   
74.37   Street work and snow removal; special regulations
   
74.38   Parking prohibited in certain areas
   
74.39   Parking in certain areas; restricted hours
   
74.40   Limited time parking
Fire Lanes
   
74.50   Definition
   
74.51   Standards; size and markings
   
74.52   Loading in fire lanes prohibited
   
74.53   Fire lane parking violations
   
74.54   Obstruction of building fire lanes prohibited
Parking for Disabled
   
74.65   Definitions
   
74.66   Designation of handicapped parking spaces
   
74.67   Business establishments to provide handicapped parking spaces
   
74.68   Handicapped parking permits
   
74.69   Violations
Administration and Enforcement; Towing and Storage
   
74.80   Towing of vehicles
   
74.81   Illegally parked or abandoned vehicles; impoundment
   
74.82   Repeat offenders; procedure
   
74.83   Towing contractors and garage keepers; requirements
   
74.84   Claiming towed vehicle; towing and storage fees
   
74.85   Unclaimed impounded vehicles
   
74.86   Authorized fees and charges
   
74.87   General penalty
GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS
§ 74.01 STAND OR PARK CLOSE TO CURB.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle on a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of the lawful traffic
movement and with the right hand wheels within 12 inches of the curb or the
edge of the roadway, except as otherwise provided in the following paragraphs
and in this title.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.02 ANGLE PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Angle parking in the town is prohibited.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.03 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLE.
   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked at night time upon any street within a
business or residence district, no lights need be displayed upon that parked
vehicle.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 74.04 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; CONSENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall drive, stop, stand, or park a vehicle onto or upon
privately owned property or an area developed as an off-street parking facility
without the consent of the owner, lessee, or person in charge of that privately
owned property or facility.
   (B)   A violation of this section shall place the vehicle in the status of
an illegally parked vehicle, and upon complaint of the owner, lessee, or person
in charge of the privately owned property or facility, that vehicle may be
dealt with as described in this title.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.05 STREET PARKING; 96-HOUR LIMIT; PERMIT EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Using streets for storage of vehicles or parking of vehicles for more
than 96 consecutive hours is prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
park or cause to be parked any motor vehicle upon any street or public highway
in the town for a period longer than 96 consecutive hours except as hereinafter
provided.
   (B)   Any person who desires to park a motor vehicle upon any street in the
town for a period of more than 96 consecutive hours shall apply to the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town for a permit to do so. The Clerk-Treasurer shall grant
the permit only after determining that:
      (1)   The safety of the persons traveling on the street upon which it is
desired to park the motor vehicle will not be endangered; and
      (2)   The reason stated for parking a motor vehicle for more than 96
consecutive hours is such that the granting of the permit is necessary and
reasonable.
   (C)   A permit granted by the Clerk-Treasurer shall state the name of the
person seeking the permit, his or her address, the address at which the motor
vehicle shall be parked, the model, kind, and registration place of the motor
vehicle to be parked, and the expiration date of the permit, and the reason
therefor.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.06 STOPPING, STANDING, PARKING; PROHIBITED PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the law, or the
directions of a police officer, or traffic-control device, in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on a curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length has been indicated by signs or markings;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where an official sign prohibits parking, stopping,
or standing; or
      (15)   Within 50 feet of the center of the gate of any industrial plant.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area described above or away from a curb by a distance as
is unlawful.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Stopping, standing, and parking, see I.C. 9-21-16-5
§ 74.07 OBSTRUCTION OF STREET TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street in a manner or under
conditions so as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.08 PARKING IN ALLEYS; OBSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in a manner or under
conditions so as to leave available less than ten feet of space for vehicular
travel, and no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in a
position so as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.09 VEHICLES WITH LIVE ANIMALS; PARKING TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to park,
and/or to permit to be parked, and/or to remain parked, any motor vehicle
loaded with cattle, hogs, sheep, horses, and/or other livestock, or poultry, on
any of the public streets, alleys, or other public places within the corporate
limits of the town for more than 30 minutes at any one time.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this section shall be fined.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.10 PROHIBITED COMMERCIAL VEHICLE/TRUCK PARKING IN COMMERCIAL, PLANNED
DEVELOPMENT COMMERCIAL AND PLANNED DEVELOPMENT MIXED ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Overnight parking prohibited. It shall be a violation of this section
for the owner, operator or driver of any commercial vehicle/truck with more
than two axles, or for the person in charge thereof, to park such commercial
vehicle/truck or to permit it to be parked or to stand upon any street or alley
or property in a commercial, planned development commercial, or planned
development mixed zoning district within the town between the consecutive hours
of 12:00 a.m. midnight and 6:00 a.m., for a period longer than one hour, if the
commercial vehicle/truck is not specifically licensed and registered to the
owner of record of the real property where the commercial vehicle/truck is
located. Commercial, planned development commercial, and planned development
mixed zoning districts where commercial vehicle/truck parking shall be
prohibited by this section shall be those districts identified as commercial
zoning districts, and specifically, C-l Neighborhood Commercial Zoning
District, C-2 Office Commercial Zoning District, and C-3 General Commercial
Zoning District, PDC Planned Development Commercial Zoning District, and PDM
Planned Development Mixed Zoning District, all as defined and set forth in the
town's Zoning Code.
   (B)   Commercial vehicle(s)/truck(s) defined. For purposes of this section,
a COMMERCIAL VEHICLE/TRUCK shall not include town or other government vehicles,
public utility vehicles, vehicles delivering services or materials to any
commercial business, entity, or establishment where the commercial vehicle/
truck is parked, or authorized emergency vehicles. Commercial vehicles/trucks
shall include every transport vehicle designed, maintained, or used primarily
for the transportation of property. A commercial vehicle/truck shall, in
addition to the tractor portion of said commercial vehicle/truck, include
disconnected trailers, flatbeds, or the like, which may have been disconnected
or otherwise separated from a commercial vehicle/truck tractor and left in a
commercial, planned development commercial or planned development mixed zoning
district within the town.
   (C)   Penalty. Any owner, operator, or driver of any commercial vehicle/
truck, in violation of this section shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
74.87, as amended from time to time. Each occurrence shall constitute a
separate violation.
(Ord. 248, passed 11-10-2015)
FREIGHT AND PASSENGER LOADING ZONES
§ 74.20 TEMPORARY LOADING ZONES; AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE.
   For the purpose of alleviating acute traffic congestion, the Building
Official is authorized by the Town Council to determine the location of
temporary passenger and freight loading zones and shall place and maintain
appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours during which the
provisions of this subchapter are applicable.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 74.21 LOADING ZONE PERMITS.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer or the Building Official, as authorized by the
Town Council, shall not hereafter designate or assign any freight and passenger
loading zone upon special request of any person, unless that person makes
application for a permit for the zone, and will have two signs to indicate the
ends of each zone.
   (B)   The Building Official, upon granting a permit and approving the signs,
shall require the applicant to deposit with the Town Clerk-Treasurer a fee of
$50 per year, and may, by general regulations, impose conditions upon the use
of these signs and for reimbursement by the town for the value thereof in the
event of their loss or damage. Every permit shall expire at the expiration of
the time stated therein, not to exceed ten days over the one-year period.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 74.22 PERMANENT FREIGHT LOADING ZONES.
   From and after the taking effect of this subchapter, the areas and portions
of streets and highways as shall be designated by the Town Council and as
posted shall be known as permanent freight loading zones, and no person shall
stop and park a vehicle for any purpose or for any period of time in any of
these zones except for the expeditious loading or unloading of freight and
merchandise.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
PARKING RESTRICTIONS IN DESIGNATED AREAS
§ 74.35 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this title prohibiting the standing or parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified and as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer, a member of the Fire Department, designated town personnel, or
an official traffic-control device.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 74.36 REGULATIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The provisions of this subchapter imposing a time limit on parking shall not
relieve any person from a duty to observe other and more restrictive provisions
limiting the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles in specified places or
at specified times.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 74.37 STREET WORK AND SNOW REMOVAL; SPECIAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Work. The Clerk-Treasurer is given the power to post temporary signs
reading “No Parking - Street Work” along any street which the town intends to
sweep, clear, or work within the succeeding 24 hours.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall post every street that he or she intends
to work with these signs prior to 4:00 p.m. of the preceding day, if
practicable.
      (2)   All vehicles shall be removed before 7:00 a.m. of the day the
street is to be worked. Any vehicle which is illegally parked after 7:00 a.m.
of the day the street is to be worked may be towed away in the manner provided
in §
74.81 of this code.
   (B)   Snow removal.  
      (1)   No person shall park any vehicle on any street within the corporate
limits of the town whenever there is two inches or more of snow thereon, until
the snow is removed.
      (2)   Any vehicle which is parked on the streets when the depth of the
snow exceeds two inches may be towed away in the manner provided in §
74.81 of this code.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person who violates this section and chapter shall be
subject to the following penalty and fine schedule:
      (1)   The penalty for an initial violation of this section shall be a
fine of $40; thereafter, the penalty shall be $100 for a second violation; and
thereafter the penalty shall be $250 for a third and subsequent violation
occurring within a consecutive 12 month period.
      (2)   Each occurrence shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000; Am. Ord. 84-J, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 74.38 PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   (A)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a
vehicle at any time upon any of the streets described in Chapter 76, Schedule I
of this code.
   (B)   Parking is prohibited at all times in the following areas:
      (1)   In front of public buildings when signs or curb markings so
prohibit; and
      (2)   Any place where signs or curb markings so indicate.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.39 PARKING IN CERTAIN AREAS; RESTRICTED HOURS.
   When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall
park a vehicle on the streets where so posted between the hours specified on
that sign of any day, except Sundays and legal holidays.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.40 LIMITED TIME PARKING.
   (A)   One-hour parking. When signs are erected in each block giving notice
thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than one hour between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of any day, except Sundays and legal holidays,
upon streets where posted.
   (B)   Two-hour parking. When signs are erected in each block giving notice
thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than two hours between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of any day, except Sundays and legal holidays,
within the district or upon any of the streets as may be designated by
ordinance.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
FIRE LANES
§ 74.50 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE LANES. Those lanes of travel immediately adjacent to a building or
structure within the town which are so designated by the Chief of the Fire
Department contracted with the town, or the Building Official, and so marked
with a sign which shall read No Parking or Standing at Any Time - Fire Lane or
contain other information to that effect, which sign shall be installed at the
expense of the property owner along whose building the FIRE LANE is so
designated.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Fire emergency areas, see I.C. 9-21-12-7
§ 74.51 STANDARDS; SIZE AND MARKINGS.
   (A)   Designated fire lanes shall be marked with diagonal stripes of yellow
paint, which stripes shall be approximately four inches wide, ten feet in
length, and 11 inches apart; signs shall be permanently affixed to a building
or a stationary object located along the fire lane, not more than 75 feet apart
unless otherwise designated by the Fire Chief, the Building Official, or the
Town Council.
   (B)   The signs shall be not less than 211 square inches, the bottom of
which shall be not lower than 36 inches from the ground and the top not more
than 72 inches from the ground, and shall be clearly marked in black letters on
a white background or red letters on white background with the following words:
No Parking or Standing at Any Time - Fire Lane.
   (C)   The curb or sidewalk edge adjacent to the fire lane shall be painted
in yellow.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 74.52 LOADING IN FIRE LANES PROHIBITED.
   The designated fire lane shall not be used for pick-ups or deliveries.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.53 FIRE LANE PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who shall block, obstruct, park in, or otherwise abandon a
vehicle in a designated fire lane shall be subject to fines as set forth
hereinafter: the penalty for an initial violation of this section shall be a
fine of $40; thereafter, the penalty shall be $100 for a second violation; and
thereafter, the penalty shall be $250 for a third and each subsequent violation
occurring within a consecutive 12 month period. Each occurrence shall
constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000; Am. Ord. 84-M, passed 2-24-2015)
§ 74.54 OBSTRUCTION OF BUILDING FIRE LANES PROHIBITED.
   Each business establishment, hospital, school, church, library, state,
federal, or city structure required by the town Fire Chief or the Building
Official to provide a fire lane or lanes shall not permit parking or other
obstructions in its designated fire lanes. Any person or firm violating this
section shall be subject to a fine as imposed by the town Fire Department or
the town’s Building Department, to be paid to the town’s General Fund.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
PARKING FOR DISABLED
§ 74.65 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HANDICAPPED PARKING PERMIT. Any tag, sticker, or card issued by the town or
any other municipality, license plate issued by any state, or any other
regularly issued HANDICAPPED PARKING PERMIT, indicating that the driver or a
passenger in that vehicle is a physically handicapped person.
   PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PERSON. Any person who has:
      (1)   Permanently lost the use of one or more legs or arms;
      (2)   Is permanently unable to move without the aid of crutches or a
wheelchair; or
      (3)   Is unable to walk long distances as verified by a doctor’s
certificate.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 74.66 DESIGNATION OF HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES.
   Certain public parking spaces within the town shall be designated as
reserved by posting immediately adjacent to and visible from the space or
spaces, a sign bearing the official international wheelchair symbol, or
facsimile thereof. Parking in these designated spaces shall be reserved solely
for the use of those vehicles prominently displaying a handicapped parking
permit.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 74.67 BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS TO PROVIDE HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES.
   Each business establishment required to provide parking spaces for the
handicapped shall not permit parking in those designated spaces by vehicles not
displaying a handicapped parking permit. Any person or business violating this
section shall be subject to a fine as imposed by the Town Council or its
designated personnel.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 74.68 HANDICAPPED PARKING PERMITS.
   Handicapped persons desiring to obtain a handicapped parking permit from the
town may obtain same from the Town Council office, from the Clerk-Treasurer, by
making application on a form supplied by the Clerk-Treasurer and sworn to under
oath. There shall be no charge for obtaining this permit, and the permit shall
not be transferable.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Handicapped person license plates, see I.C. 9-18-22-1 et seq.
   Parking placards for physically handicapped individuals, see I.C. 9-14-5-
1 et seq.
§ 74.69 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who shall take advantage of the handicapped parking permit
granted under this section when the vehicle is not being used to transport a
physically handicapped person, or otherwise parks his or her vehicle in a
parking spot designated for use by a physically handicapped person without
visibly displaying a handicapped parking permit, shall be subject to a fine of
$100 for the first violation, and thereafter, a fine of $150, but not more than
$250 for each subsequent violation occurring within a consecutive 12 month
period.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000; Am. Ord. 84-F, passed 2-24-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT; TOWING AND STORAGE
§ 74.80 TOWING OF VEHICLES.
   Whenever there is a violation of an ordinance of the town under which a
vehicle is to be towed, or public safety requires a vehicle to be towed, it
shall be the duty of the Town Council forthwith to employ a qualified towing
contractor to tow and remove that vehicle from the streets or public property
of the town or from any other place in which it is a violation to park or
locate a vehicle. The qualified towing contractor shall tow the vehicle to a
vehicle storage pound established by the town or a specifically designated
storage area operated by a qualified storage keeper.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Towing vehicles from private property, see I.C. 9-22-1-16
§ 74.81 ILLEGALLY PARKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES; IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any motor vehicle found upon the streets, alleys, or highways within the
town illegally parked or reasonably appearing to be abandoned may be removed,
at the registered owner’s expense, from that street, alley, or highway, under
the direction of the Clerk-Treasurer or Town Marshal, or a duly authorized
representative, and be impounded by any recognized town towing contractor or
garage keeper who is approved by the town, pursuant to the provisions of §
74.83 of the Town Code, and as designated by the Town Council. A notice shall
be mailed by the Town Clerk-Treasurer, or Town Marshal, or a duly authorized
representative, by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the registered
owner of the motor vehicle that the motor vehicle has been impounded and will
be treated as an abandoned vehicle and disposed of in accordance with I.C. 9-
22-1, if the same is not claimed within three days. A registered owner of a
motor vehicle shall pay the town a fine of $40 for each citation received for
illegal parking or abandoned vehicle.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000; Am. Ord. 84-D, passed 1-27-2015)
§ 74.82 REPEAT OFFENDERS; PROCEDURE.
   Any motor vehicle found upon the streets or highways of the town having
charged against the state license registration number of that vehicle an
accumulation of four or more offenses may be removed for impoundment in the
manner described in this chapter. Should the owner of the vehicle appear to
claim same, he or she will be booked for appearance in a court having
jurisdiction on all outstanding offenses.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 74.83 TOWING CONTRACTORS AND GARAGE KEEPERS; REQUIREMENTS.
   Any towing contractor or garage keeper who desires to perform towing and/or
storage services within the town for the amounts set forth in the schedule of
towing and storage fees hereinafter established, and files with the town a
certificate of insurance naming the town as additional insured with liability
limits of not less than $300,000/$500,000 for personal injury and $100,000 for
property damage, and receives approval of the Town Council, shall be deemed a
qualified person for the purposes of this subchapter. The Clerk-Treasurer shall
employ towing contractors and garage keepers pursuant to recommendation and
approval of the Town Council.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 74.84 CLAIMING TOWED VEHICLE; TOWING AND STORAGE FEES.
   (A)   Towing and storing fees. The owner of any motor vehicle removed and
impounded pursuant to the terms of this title may appear and claim that motor
vehicle upon payment of the tow release fee, in the amount of $50, to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer, Town Marshal, or duly authorized representative, whereupon the
vehicle shall be allowed to be released to said owner, or his or her authorized
representative, upon a showing of proper identification, subject to compliance
with division (B).
   (B)   Delivery of vehicles towed due to a public safety violation. When a
vehicle has been towed by reason of the requirement of public safety or for
violation of a town ordinance, that vehicle shall be delivered only to the duly
registered owner thereof, as determined by registration of that vehicle, or a
person otherwise lawfully entitled to possession thereof, upon payment to the
qualified towing contractor of the reasonable costs of the removal, towing, and
accumulated storage.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000; Am. Ord. 84-D, passed 1-27-2015; Am. Ord. 84-N,
passed 7-28-2020)
§ 74.85 UNCLAIMED IMPOUNDED VEHICLES.
   If the impounded vehicle has not been reclaimed within 72 hours of the date
of its impoundment, the qualified towing contractor shall proceed with
appropriate enforcement of its claim against the vehicle owner as provided by
state law, including provisions concerning notice to the registered owner, and
abandonment of motor vehicles in the state.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 74.86 AUTHORIZED FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The duly registered owner or person otherwise lawfully entitled to
possession of the impounded vehicle may obtain release of the vehicle pursuant
to the provisions set forth above and upon payment of posted and approved fees
and charges to the qualified towing contractor.
   (B)   Charges shall include but not be limited to the following services:
      (1)   Towing of vehicles (6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.);
      (2)   Towing of vehicles (6:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.);
      (3)   Use of flat bed trailer; and
      (4)   Inside and/or outside storage of vehicles, per 24-hour period or
fraction thereof.
   (C)   Payment shall be made at the office of the qualified towing
contractor.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
§ 74.87 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any section of this chapter which does not have a
specific penalty established for violation of the same shall be subject to the
following penalty and fine schedule: the penalty for an initial violation of
this section shall be a fine of $40; thereafter, the penalty shall be $100 for
a second violation; and thereafter, the penalty shall be $250 for a third, and
each subsequent violation occurring within a consecutive 12 month period. Each
occurrence shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 84-H, passed 2-24-2015)
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Traffic-control signals at intersections
   
II.   Heavy duty streets
   
III.   Through streets
   
IV.   Stop intersections
   
V.   Certified roads and streets
   
VI.   Other local roads and streets
   
VII.   Local roads and streets speed limits
SCHEDULE I. TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to this title, the following traffic-control signals at
intersections are designated.
 
Intersections with Traffic-Control Signals
Four-Way Intersection E-109th Ave. at Randolph St., North, South, East, West
Four-Way Intersection E-109th Ave. at N. Lakeshore Dr., North, South, East,
West
 
   (B)   Any additional streets may be added to this designation, as the town
deems necessary, per an amendment to this schedule.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000; Am. Ord. 84-E, passed 1-27-2015)
Cross-reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see §
71.059
SCHEDULE II. HEAVY DUTY STREETS.
   (A)   The following streets will be designated as heavy duty streets for the
purpose of making a delivery or carrying on business as described in this code.
 
Heavy Duty Streets
101st Avenue
109th Avenue
117th Avenue
Arizona Street
Pike Street between 109th Avenue and 108th Avenue
Randolph Street
 
   (B)   Any additional streets may be added, as the town deems necessary, to
this designation, per an amendment to this schedule.
   (C)   All other roads and streets shall be designated restricted streets.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000; Am. Ord. 84-E, passed 1-27-2015)
Cross-reference:
   Restricted streets; use restrictions, see §
71.039
SCHEDULE III. THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   Pursuant to this title, the following are declared through streets.
 
Through Streets
101st Avenue
109th Avenue
117th Avenue
Arizona Street
Randolph Street
 
   (B)   Any additional streets may be added, as the town deems necessary, to
this designation, per an amendment to this schedule.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000; Am. Ord. 84-E, passed 1-27-2015)
Cross-reference:
   Designated through streets; right-of-way, see §
71.075
SCHEDULE IV. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to this title, the following single stop streets are
declared.
Intersection
Intersection
Four - Way E. 101st Avenue at Colorado St., North, South, East, West
Colorado St. South Bound at E-109th Ave.
E-101st Ave. West Bound at Randolph St.
Four-Way Intersection E-101st Ave. at County Line Rd., North, South, East, West
Arizona St. North Bound at E-101st Ave.
Arizona St. South Bound at E-109th Ave.
Four-Way Intersection Randolph St. at E-117th Ave., North, South, East, West
Benton St. North Bound at 101st Ave.
E-102nd Ave. East Bound at Benton St.
Two-Way Intersection E-103rd Ave. at Allen St., East, West
E-104th Ave. West Bound at Allen St.
E-104th Ave. West Bound at Arizona St.
New Hampshire St. South Bound at E-104th Ave.
Benton St. South Bound at E-109th Ave.
E-105th Ave. West Bound at Benton St.
Dearborn St. North Bound at E-105th Ln.
E-106th Ln. West Bound at Dearborn St.
E-107th Ct. North Bound at Dearborn St.
Four-Way Intersection Floyd St. at E-105th Ln., North, South. East, West
E-106th Ln. East Bound at Floyd St.
E-105th Ln. East Bound at Green Pl.
E-106th Ct. West Bound at Green Pl.
E-107th Pl. West Bound at Green Pl.
Green Pl. South Bound at E-109th Ave.
Potawatomi Ct. South Bound at E-109th Ave.
Fayette St. North Bound at E-109th Ave.
E-110th Ave. West Bound at Elkhart Pl.
E-110th Ave. East Bound at Fayette St.
Grand Blvd. South Bound at E-109th Ave.
State St. North Bound at E-109th Ave.
Deer Creek Dr. North Bound at E-109th Ave.
Linden Dr. West Bound at Deer Creek Dr.
Deer Creek Ct. West Bound at Deer Creek Dr.
Two-Way Intersection Miami St. at E-109th Ave., North, South
E-110th Ln. East Bound at Miami St.
Marion Pl. North Bound at E-110th Ln.
Marion Pl. West Bound at Lawrence Dr.
Lawrence Dr. South Bound at E-112th Ave.
Marion Ct. South Bound at E-112th Ave.
Two-Way Intersection Miami St. at E-112th Ave., South, East
E-112th Ave. West Bound at Morgan St.
Newton St. South Bound at E-112th Ave.
E-112th Ave. West Bound at Orange St.
111th Ln. West Bound at Orange St.
111th Ln. East bound at E-112th Ave.
E-111th Pl. East Bound at E-112th Ave.
Pike Pl. North Bound at E-112th Ave.
E-112th Ave. East Bound at Randolph St.
Pointe Dr. West Bound at Randolph St.
Allendale Ct. North Bound at Pointe Dr.
Briarcliff Ct. North Bound at Pointe Dr.
Clairmont Ct. North Bound at Pointe Dr.
Wynbrook Dr. North Bound at E-109th Ave.
Miami St. North Bound at E-107th Ct.
Park St. South Bound at E-109th Ave.
Park St. North Bound at E-108th Ave.
Pike St. South Bound at E-109th Ave.
Four-Intersection Pike St. at E-108th Ave., North, South, East, West
Two-Way Intersection E-108th Ave, at Randolph St. East, West
Keystone Ln. West Bound at Pike St.
Two-Way Intersection E-107th Dr. at Pike St., East, West
Three-Way Intersection Pike St. at E-106th Ave., North, East, West
Heather Dr. North Bound at Mary Kay Ct.
Mary Kay Ct. West Bound at Newton Ave.
Newton Ave. North Bound at E-106th Ave.
E-105th Ave. East Bound at Pike St.
E-105th Ln. East Bound at Pike St.
Park Pl. South Bound at E-106th Ave.
Two-Way Intersection Boardwalk Cir. at Boardwalk Cir., South, East
104th Ave. East Bound at Randolph St.
Pinnacle St. North Bound at 104th Ave.
Two-Way Intersection Snead St. at 104th Ave., North, South
Three-Way Intersection Pike St. at 104th Ave., North, South, West
E-104th Pl. East Bound at Pike St.
103rd Dr. East Bound at Pike St.
Player St. South Bound at E-104th Pl.
Player St. North Bound at 103rd Dr.
Price St. South Bound at E-104th Pl.
Price St. North Bound at 103rd Dr.
103rd Dr. West Bound at Trevino St.
Three-Way Intersection E-104th Pl. at Trevino St., North, East, West
Nelson St. South Bound at E-104th Pl.
Nelson St. North Bound at E-103rd Ave.
Nicklaus St. South Bound at E-104th Pl.
Three-Way Intersection Nicklaus St. at E-103rd Ave., North, South, West
Four-Way Intersection Trevino St. at E-103rd Ave., North, South, East, West
Three-Way Intersection E-103rd Ave, at Pike St., North, East, West
Snead St. North bound at E-103rd Ave.
Private Dr. South Bound from Doubletree Plaza Shopping Center at E-109th Ave.
Ontario Dr. West Bound at Randolph St.
Three-Way Intersection Ontario Dr. at Spyglass Ct., North, South. East.
Tuckaway Ct. East Bound at Ontario Dr.
Three-Way Intersection Ontario Dr. at Doubletree Dr. S., North, East, West
Doubletree Ct. West Bound at Doubletree Dr. S.
Doubletree Ct. South Bound at Doubletree Dr. S.
Lakeview Ct. West Bound at Doubletree Dr. S.
Three-Way Intersection Doubletree Dr. S. at Doubletree Dr. N., North, South,
East
Doubletree Dr. S. West Bound at Randolph St.
Potomac Ct. North Bound at Doubletree Dr. N.
Four-Way Intersection Doubletree Dr. N. at Michigan Dr., North, South, East,
West
Three-Way Intersection Doubletree Dr. S. at Erie Dr., North, East, West
Alpine Ct. South Bound at Erie Dr.
Bridgewater Ct. North Bound at Erie Dr.
Superior Ct. East Bound at Erie Dr.
Mystic Cir. East Bound at Erie Dr.
Three-Way Intersection Erie Dr. at Doubletree Dr. S., North, East, West
Two-Way Intersection Jay St. at E. 117th Ave., North, South
Jay St. South Bound at 116th Pl.
Jay St. North Bound at E. 114th Pl.
Knox St. North Bound at E. 117th Ave.
121st Ln. West Bound at Putnam St.
121st Ln. East Bound at Randolph St.
Pike St. North Bound at 121st Ave.
Petty St. North Bound at 121st Ave.
Pike St. South Bound at 122nd Pl.
122nd Pl. West Bound at Perry St.
Two-Way Intersection E-123rd Ave, at Perry St., South, West
Putnam St. North Bound at E-123rd Ave.
Two-Way Intersection E-123rd Ave, at Randolph St., East, West
Three-Way Intersection E-123rd Ave, at County Line Rd., North, East, West
Gibson St. North Bound at E-117th Ave.
Two-Way Intersection E-129th Ave, at Gibson St., East, West
Decatur St. North Bound at E-117th Ave.
Decatur St. South Bound at E-121st Ave.
E-121st Ave. East Bound at Gibson St.
Benton St. South Bound at E-117th Ave.
E-125th Ave. West Bound at Gibson St.
E-125th Ave. East Bound at Randolph St.
Three-Way Intersection E-129th Ave, at Randolph St., South, East, West
E-124th Pl. West Bound at Randolph St.
E-126th Ave. West Bound at Randolph St.
E-129th Ave. West Bound at County Line Rd.
 
   (B)   Any additional streets may be added, as the town deems necessary, to
this designation, per an amendment to this schedule.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000; Am. Ord. 168, passed 1-15-2008; Am. Ord. 84-E,
passed 1-27-2015)
Cross-reference:
   Stops and yields, see §§
71.075 through
71.078
SCHEDULE V. CERTIFIED ROADS AND STREETS.
   (A)   The following roads and streets have been accepted by the town and
certified by the state.
Road or Street Length in Miles Location
Road or Street                Length in Miles Location
102nd Avenue                  0.23            Hidden Creek Estates
102nd Place                   0.12            Doubletree Lake Estates West
103rd Avenue                  0.20            Hidden Creek Estates
103rd Avenue                  0.36            Doubletree Lake Estates West
103rd Drive                   0.19            Doubletree Lake Estates West
104thAvenue                   0.45            Hidden Creek Estates
104th Avenue                  0.16            Doubletree Lake Estates West
104th Place                   0.07            Doubletree Lake Estates West
104th Place                   0.23            Doubletree Lake Estates West
105th Avenue                  0.20            Trees
105th Avenue                  0.02            Country Meadows Estates
105th Court                   0.08            Trees
105th Lane                    0.54            Trees
105th Lane                    0.02            Country Meadows Estates
105th Place                   0.16            Trees
106th Avenue                  0.54            Country Meadows Estates
106th Court                   0.10            Trees
106th Lane                    0.30            Trees
107th Avenue                  0.06            Country Meadows Estates
107th Place                   0.25            Trees
107th Place                   0.30            Trees
107th Court                   0.18            Trees
107th Court                   0.27            Country Meadows Estates
107th Court                   0.06            Country Meadows Estates
108th Avenue                  0.33            Country Meadows Estates
109th Avenue                  3.82
110th Avenue                  0.18            The Meadows
112th Avenue                  0.31            The Meadows
114th Place                   0.23            Prairie Crossings
116th Place                   0.14            Prairie Crossings
117th Avenue                  3.38
121st Avenue                  1.54
121st Avenue                  0.07            Stonegate
121st Lane                    0.04            Stonegate
122nd Place                   0.12            Stonegate
123rd Avenue                  0.50
123rd Avenue                  0.17            Stonegate
125th Avenue                  1.58
129th Avenue                  1.53
Allen St.                     0.26            Hidden Creek Estates
Amanda's Way                  0.09            Country Meadows Estates
Arizona Street                1.01
Benton Street                 0.17            Hidden Creek Estates
Benton Street                 0.44            Trees
Boardwalk Circle              0.50            Country Meadows Estates
Cass Street                   0.12            Hidden Creek Estates
County Line Road              1.01
County Line Road              0.51
Dearborn Street               0.19            Trees
Decatur Street                0.50
Deer Creek Court              0.05            Deer Creek Estates
Deer Creek Drive              0.29            Deer Creek Estates
Floyd Street                  0.54            Trees
Gibson Street                 1.54
Grand Avenue                  0.96
Green Place                   0.44            Trees
Hawthorne Court               0.04            Deer Creek Estates
Heather Drive                 0.13            Country Meadows Estates
Jay Street                    0.39            Prairie Crossings
Kirby Circle                  0.10            Country Meadows Estates
Knox Street                   0.24            Prairie Crossings
Lawrence Drive                0.27            The Meadows
Linden Drive                  0.09            Deer Creek Estates
Marion Court                  0.07            The Meadows
Marion Place                  0.18            The Meadows
Martinique Lane               0.13            Country Meadows Estates
Mary Kay Court                0.08            Country Meadows Estates
Miami Street                  0.56            Country Meadows Estates/The
                                              Meadows
Nelson Street                 0.02            Doubletree Lake Estates West
New Hampshire Street          0.31            Prairie Crossings
Newton Avenue                 0.19            Country Meadows Estates
Nicklaus Street               0.08            Doubletree Lake Estates West
Palmer Road (Randolph Street) 0.18
Park Street                   0.12            Country Commons
Park Place                    0.09            Country Meadows Estates
Perry Street                  0.08            Stonegate
Pike Place                    0.15            Stonegate
                                              Country Commons/Country Meadows
Pike Street                   0.74            Estates/Doubletree Lake Estates
                                              West
Pinnacle Street               0.06            Country Meadows Estates
Player Street                 0.15            Doubletree Lake Estates West
Price Street                  0.15            Doubletree Lake Estates West
Putnam Street                 0.04            Stonegate
Randolph Street               3.55
Snead Street                  0.22            Country Meadows Estates
State Street/Benton Street    1.12
Trevino Street                0.26            Doubletree Lake Estates West
 
   (B)   Any additional streets may be added, as the town deems necessary, to
this designation, per an amendment to this schedule.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000; Am. Ord. 84-E, passed 1-27-2015)
Cross-reference:
   Accepted local roads and streets, see §
70.03
SCHEDULE VI. OTHER LOCAL ROADS AND STREETS.
   (A)   The following roads and streets are all other streets, not listed as
certified, within the town.
Road or Street Length in Miles Location
Road or Street  Length in Miles Location
105th Avenue    0.17            Trees
105th Court     0.07            Trees
105th Lane      0.19            Trees
105th Place     0.18            Trees
                                Country Meadows Estates (CME) Third Addition,
106th Avenue    0.51            Units 3, 5, 7, 10, and 11; Country Commons
                                First Addition
106th Court     0.09            Trees
106th Lane      0.35            Trees
107th Court     0.27            CME Second Addition
107th Place     0.30            Trees
108th Avenue    0.30            CME Third Addition, Units 2 and 6; Country
                                Commons Second Addition
110th Lane      0.17            Meadows
112th Avenue    0.23            Meadows
Benton Street   0.44            Trees
Dearborn Street 0.09            Trees
Floyd Street    0.28            Trees
Green Place     0.42            Trees
Heather Drive   0.10            CME Third Addition, Unit 12
Lawrence Drive  0.22            Meadows
Marion Court    0.07            Meadows
Marion Place    0.18            Meadows
Mary Kay Court  0.14            CME Third Addition, Units 6 and 12
Miami Street    0.20            CME, Units 1 and 2
Miami Street    0.37            Meadows
Newton Avenue   0.23            CME Third Addition, Units 6 and 7
Park Street     0.12            Country Commons PBC (Planned Business Center)
Pike Street     0.37            CME Third Addition; Country Commons PBC
                                (Planned Business Center)
 
   (B)   Any additional streets may be added, as the town deems necessary, to
this designation, per an amendment to this schedule.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Cross-reference:
   Accepted local roads and streets, see §
70.03
SCHEDULE VII. LOCAL ROADS AND STREETS SPEED LIMITS.
Road/Street Posted Speed Limit (m.p.h.) Location
Road/Street       Posted Speed Limit (m.p.h.) Location
E-109th Ave.      40                          Between Colorado St. and Wynbrook
                                              Dr.
E-109th Ave       30                          Between Wynbrook and County Line
                                              Rd.
Randolph St.      30                          Between E-101st Ave. and 11300
                                              Block
Randolph St       20                          Between 11300 Block and 11500
                                              Block School Zone
Randolph St.      30                          Between 11500 Block and E-117th
                                              Ave.
Randolph St.      40                          Between E-117th Ave. and E-129th
                                              Ave.
Grand Blvd.       40                          Between E-109th Ave. and 10100
                                              Block
Arizona St.       40                          Between E-109th Ave. and E-101st
                                              Ave.
E-117th Ave.      20                          Between 3200 Block and 3500 Block
E-117th Ave.      40                          Between 3500 Block and 4300 Block
E-117th Ave.      15                          Between 4300 Block and 4900 Block
E-117th Ave.      40                          Between 4900 Block and Randolph
                                              St.
Gibson St.        40                          Between E-117th Ave. and E-129th
                                              Ave.
E-125th Ave.      40                          Between Gibson St. and Randolph
                                              St.
E-129th Ave.      15                          Between 3200 Block and 6800 Block
E-129th Ave.      40                          Between 7200 Block and County
                                              Line Rd.
State St.         20                          Between E-109th Ave. and E-113th
                                              Ave.
E-113th Ave.      20                          Between State St. and Benton St.
Benton St.        20                          Between E-113th Ave. and E-117th
E-104th Ave.      20                          Between Arizona St. and Allen St.
E-104th Ave.      20                          Between Allen St. and 4700 Block
Allen St.         20                          Between E-104th Ave. and E-102nd
                                              Ave.
Benton St.        20                          Between E-101st Ave. and E-102nd
                                              Ave.
New Hampshire St. 20                          Between E-102nd Ave. and E-104th
                                              Ave.
E-103rd Ave.      20                          Between Cass St. and 4400 Block
Cass St.          20                          Between 10300 Block and 10400
                                              Block
E-102nd Ave.      20                          Between New Hampshire St. and
                                              Benton St.
Benton St.        20                          Between E-109th Ave. and E-105th
                                              Ct.
E-105th Ct.       20                          Between Benton St. and 4700 Block
E-105th Ave.      20                          Between Benton St. and Dearborn
                                              St.
E-105th Ln.       20                          Between Dearborn St. and Green
                                              Pl.
E-106th Ln.       20                          Between Dearborn St. and Floyd
                                              St.
E-107th Pl.       20                          Between E-107th Ct. and Floyd St.
Dearborn St.      20                          Between E-105th Ave. and E-107th
                                              Ct.
E-107th Ct.       20                          Between Dearborn St. and 4900
                                              Block
Floyd St.         20                          Between E-107th Pl. and 10300
                                              Block
Green Pl.         20                          Between E-109th Ave. and E-105th
                                              Ln.
E-106th Ct.       20                          Between Green Pl. and 5900 Block
E-107th Pl.       20                          Between Green Pl. and 6200 Block
Potawatomi Ct.    20                          Between E-109th Ave. and 10800
                                              Block
Decatur St.       20                          Between E-117th Ave. and E-121st
                                              Ave.
Miami St.         20                          Between E-112th Ave. and E-107th
                                              Ct.
E-107th Ct.       20                          Between 7000 Block and 7300 Block
Park St.          20                          Between E-109th Ave. and E-108th
                                              Ave.
E-121st Ave.      40                          Between 3200 Block and Gibson St.
Colorado St.      40                          Between E-109th Ave. and E-101st
                                              Ave.
E-101st Ave.      40                          Between Colorado St. and 4700
                                              Block
E-101st Ave.      20                          Between 4700 Block and Clay St.
E-101st Ave.      20                          Between Randolph St. and County
                                              Line Rd.
County Line Rd.   30                          Between E-129th Ave. and 12500
                                              Block
County Line Rd.   30                          Between E-101st Ave. and E-109th
Pike St.          20                          Between E-109th Ave. and E-106th
                                              Ave.
E-108th Ave.      20                          Between Mary Kay Ct. and Randolph
                                              St.
Newton Ave.       20                          Between Mary Kay Ct. and E-106th
                                              Ave.
Mary Kay Ct.      20                          Between Newton Ave. and 7500
                                              Block
Amanda's Way      20                          Between Heather Dr. and
                                              Martinique Ln.
E-107th Dr.       20                          Between Martinique Ln. and Pike
                                              St.
E-106th Ave.      20                          Newton Ave and Randolph St.
Park Pl.          20                          Between E-106th Ave. and
                                              Boardwalk Cir.
Boardwalk Cir.    20                          Between Park Pl. and 7100 Block
Morgan St.        20                          Between Boardwalk Cir. and 10500
                                              Block
Kirby Cir.        20                          Between E-105th Ave. and E-105th
                                              Ln.
E-105th Ave.      20                          Between Kirby Cir. and Pike St.
E-105th Ln.       20                          Between Kirby Cir. and Pike St.
E-104th Pl.       20                          Between Pike St. and 7100 Block
103rd Dr.         20                          Between Trevino St. and Pike St.
E-103rd Dr.       20                          Between Nicklaus St. and Snead
                                              St.
E-102nd Pl.       20                          Between Nicklaus St. and Trevino
                                              St.
Nicklaus St.      20                          Between E-102nd Pl. and E-104th
                                              Pl.
Nelson St.        20                          Between E-103rd Ave. and E-104th
                                              Pl.
Trevino St.       20                          Between E-102nd Pl. and E-104th
                                              Pl.
Price St.         20                          Between 103rd Dr. and E-104 Pl.
Player St.        20                          Between 103rd Dr. and E-104th Pl.
Doubletree Dr. S. 20                          Between Doubletree Dr. N. and
                                              10500 Block
Lakeview Ct.      20                          Between Doubletree Dr. S. and
                                              8200 Block
Doubletree Ct.    20                          Between two intersections with
                                              Doubletree Dr. S.
Ontario Dr.       20                          Between Doubletree Dr. S. and
                                              Randolph St.
Tuckaway Ct.      20                          Between Ontario Dr. and 8100
                                              Block
Spyglass Ct.      20                          Between Ontario Dr. and 8100
                                              Block
Erie Dr.          20                          Between two intersections with
                                              Doubletree Dr. S.
Alpine Ct.        20                          Between Erie Dr. and 10700 Block
Bridgewater Ct.   20                          Between Erie Dr. and 10800 Block
Mystic Cir.       20                          Between Erie Dr. and 8700 Block
Doubletree Dr. N. 20                          Between Doubletree Dr. S. and
                                              Michigan Dr.
Michigan Dr.      20                          Between two intersections with
                                              Doubletree Dr. N.
Whitewater Ct.    20                          Between Doubletree Dr. N. and
                                              9000 Block
Potomac Ct.       20                          Between Doubletree Dr. N. and
                                              10400 Block
Fayette St.       20                          Between E-109th Ave. and Elkhart
                                              Cir.
Elkhart Cir.      20                          Between E-112th Ave. and 11100
                                              Block
E-111th Ave.      20                          Between Elkhart Pl. and Elkhart
                                              Cir.
Elkhart Pl.       20                          Between E-111th Ave. and E-109th
                                              Pl.
E-112th Ave.      20                          Between Elkhart Cir. and 5200
                                              Block
E-109th Pl.       20                          Between Elkhart Pl. and 5200
                                              Block
Deer Creek Dr.    20                          Between E-109th Ave. and 11100
                                              Block
Hawthorne Ct.     20                          Between Deer Creek Dr. and 6600
                                              Block
Deer Creek Ct.    20                          Between Deer Creek Dr. and 6700
                                              Block
Linden Dr.        20                          Between Deer Creek Dr. and 6700
                                              Block
E-112th Ave.      20                          Between Deer Creek Dr. and
                                              Randolph St.
Lawrence Dr.      20                          Between E-112th Ave. and E-110th
                                              Ln.
E-110th Ln.       20                          Between Lawrence Dr. and Miami
                                              St.
Marion Pl.        20                          Between Lawrence Dr. and E-110th
                                              Ln.
Marion Ct.        20                          Between E-112th Ave. and 11100
                                              Block
Morgan St.        20                          Between E-112th Ave. and E-111th
                                              Ct.
E-111th Ct.       20                          Between Morgan St. and Newton St.
Newton St.        20                          Between E-111th Ct. and E-112th
                                              Ave.
Orange St.        20                          Between E-111th Pl. and E-112th
                                              Ave.
E-111th Pl.       20                          Between Orange St. and E-112th
                                              Ave.
E-111th Ln.       20                          Between Orange St. and E-112th
                                              Ave.
E-121st Ln.       20                          Between Randolph St. and Putnam
                                              St.
Pike Pl.          20                          Between E-112th Ave. and 11200
                                              Block
Putnam St.        20                          Between E-121st Ave. and E-121st
                                              Ln.
E-121st Ave.      20                          Between Perry St. and Putnam St.
Pike St.          20                          Between E-122nd Pl. and E-121st
                                              Ave.
E-122nd Pl.       20                          Between Perry St. and 7900 Block
Perry St.         20                          Between E-121st Ave. and E-124th
                                              Ave.
E-123rd Pl.       20                          Between Perry St. and Putnam St.
E-123rd Ave.      20                          Between Randolph St. and Perry
                                              St.
E-124th Ave.      20                          Between Parke Court S. and Putnam
                                              St.
Putnam St.        20                          Between E-123rd Ave. and E-124th
                                              Ave.
Parke Ct. S.      20                          Between E-124th Ave. and 12300
                                              Block
Jay St.           20                          Between E-117th Ave. and E-114th
                                              Pl.
E-116th Pl.       20                          Between Knox St. and 6500 Block
E-114th Pl.       20                          Between Knox St. and 11400 Block
Knox St.          20                          Between Jay St. and E-116th Pl.
E-126th Ave.      20                          Between Randolph St. and Ripley
                                              Pl.
Ripley Pl.        20                          Between E-126th Ave. and E-124th
                                              Ln.
 
(Ord. 84-C, passed 12-18-2012; Am. Ord. 84-E, passed 1-27-2015)
CHAPTER 76: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking prohibited
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Pursuant to this title, parking is prohibited at all times in the
following areas.
 
Street          Location
109th Avenue    From the west limits of the town to the east limits of the town
Randolph Street From the north limits of the town to the south limits of the
                town
 
   (B)   Any additional streets may be added, as the town deems necessary, to
this designation, per an amendment to this schedule.
(Ord. 84, passed 11-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking restrictions in designated areas, see §§
74.35 through
74.40
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
   
91.   BURNING REGULATIONS
   
92.   ANIMALS
   
93.   OUTDOOR EVENT/SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT AND REGULATIONS POLICY
   
94.   FIREARMS
   
95.   SMOKE-FREE AIR REGULATIONS FOR WORKPLACES AND PUBLIC PLACES
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Public Nuisances
   
90.01   State regulations adopted; state and local law applies
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Prohibited acts
   
90.04   Enforcement; notice to abate; remedies
   
90.05   Dumping and littering
   
90.06   Graffiti
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 90.01 STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED; STATE AND LOCAL LAW APPLIES.
   The enforcement of this subchapter will be in compliance with state law, as
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 73B, passed 6-26-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED INDIVIDUAL. A person who is a designee of the Town of Winfield.
   DANGEROUS TREE/STACK. Any tree, stack, or other object standing in a
condition so that may, if the condition is allowed to continue, endanger the
life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt, damage, or injury to persons or
property of residents, public streets, or public ways adjacent thereto, by the
falling thereof or of parts thereof.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse and rubbish as defined herein and all other waste
material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a
danger to public health, safety and welfare.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS AND RANK VEGETABLES.
      (1)   Vegetation on private or governmental property which is abandoned,
neglected, disregarded or not cut, mown, or otherwise removed and which has
attained a height of 12 inches or more, with the same constituting a nuisance;
      (2)   Vegetation, trees or woody growth on private property which, due to
its proximity to adjacent property, right-of-way or easement, interferes with
the public safety or lawful use of the adjacent property, right-of-way or
easement or which has been allowed to become a health or safety hazard; with
the same constituting a nuisance.
   NUISANCE. The undertaking of an unlawful act, omission, or failing to
perform a duty, or causing suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be
or exist, which such act, omission, condition, or thing either:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others;
      (2)   Is offensive to the senses;
      (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk,
stream, easement, ditch, or drainage;
      (4)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property;
      (5)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others; or
      (6)   Violates the different ordinances of the town, or provisions of
this code, the Indiana Code, the Indiana Administrative Code, and any
applicable federal law, as amended from time to time.
   OCCUPANT. A person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, business
trust, joint stock company, unincorporated organization, religious or
charitable organization, or entity who is, from time to time, in possession or
exercising dominion and control over the real estate or any house or other
structure located thereon. Occupant shall include any lessee of the property.
   OWNER. The record owner or owners as reflected as reflected by the most
current records in the township’s assessor’s office of the township in which
the real estate is located.
   PERSON. Includes a natural person, joint venture, joint stock company,
partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business, trust
organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of
any of them.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All real estate within the Town of Winfield, except
property owned by a governmental unit.
   RECIPIENT. The owner or occupant to whom a notice of a violation of this
subchapter has been directed.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body
wastes), including garbage rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals,
abandoned automobiles, and solid market and industrial waste.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, tin cans, yard
clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, or similar materials.
(Ord. 73B, passed 6-26-2012; Am. Ord. 241, passed 1-27-2015)
§ 90.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting to
be or remain on any public or private property of the following items,
conditions, or actions is declared to be and constitute a nuisance; provided,
however, this list shall not be deemed or construed to be conclusive, limiting,
or restrictive:
      (1)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation, as defined by either applicable
state statutes and regulations or the county’s official list of weeds, and
other rank vegetation, including but not limited to any grass, weeds, or other
vegetation, living or dead, the height of which exceeds nine inches above
ground level. The failure by any property owner to cut grass, weeds, or other
vegetation, living or dead, on his or her property shall be evidence that the
property owner is maintaining a nuisance. This provision shall not apply to
real estate within the town’s AG and AG-B Zoning District classification, or
any real estate that is zoned for residential uses, but not platted. Once
platted, this provision then applies;
      (2)   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk, and other abandoned
materials, metals, lumber, building materials, site improvement materials
(e.g., dirt, clay, sand, gravel, tree stumps, etc.) or other things on public
or private property;
      (3)   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes, and
other vermin;
      (4)   Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated
condition that it is unfit for human habitation, kept in such an unsanitary
condition that it is a menace to the health of people residing in the vicinity
thereof, or presents a more than ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in the
vicinity where it is located;
      (5)   All unnecessary or unauthorized noises and annoying vibrations,
including noises;
      (6)   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances, or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of those odors and stenches;
      (7)   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a
reasonable time after death, but not greater than three calendar days;
      (8)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal,
or body of water by sewage, dead animals, industrial wastes, or other
substances;
      (9)   Any building, structure, or other place or location where any
activity which is in violation of local, state, or federal law is conducted,
performed, or maintained;
      (10)   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any
lot or piece of ground;
      (11)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
      (12)   The obstruction of any public street, road, or sidewalk;
      (13)   The obstruction of any dedicated easement;
      (14)   The alteration of the flow of stormwater to the detriment of
surrounding property;
      (15)   Any junk vehicle, as defined in division (B) below;
      (16)   The discharge of any liquid onto the property of another person,
including but not limited to the discharge of any water as the result of the
draining of a swimming pool or the operation of a sump pump;
      (17)   Dangerous trees or stacks, as defined herein;
      (18)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets and sidewalks, as defined
herein. No shrub shall be planted between the curb line and the property line
of any street within a radius of 20 feet from the point where the curb line of
any street intersects with the curb line of another street; and
      (19)   The storage of scrap metal within the limits of the town, except
on premises authorized and/or zoned by the town for those purposes.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DANGEROUS TREE OR STACK. Any tree, stack, or other object standing in a
condition so that it may, if the condition is allowed to continue, endanger the
life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt, damage, or injury to persons or
property of residents, public streets, or public ways adjacent thereto, by the
falling thereof or of parts thereof.
      JUNK VEHICLE. A motor vehicle, or a part or parts from a motor vehicle,
which meets any one of the following qualifications:
         (a)   It does not carry the current state registration (license
plates);
         (b)   It cannot be safely operated under its own power;
         (c)   It is not carried on the most recent tax records of the Lake
County Assessor’s office; or
         (d)   It is not the property of and is not located in a licensed
junkyard.
      TREES AND SHRUBBERY OBSTRUCTING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS. The growing and/or
maintenance of trees with less than 14 feet of clearance over streets or less
than eight feet over sidewalks, or the growing and/or maintenance of shrubbery
in excess of three feet in height within the radius of 20 feet from the point
where the curb line of any street intersects the curb line of another street.
No shrub shall be planted between the curb line and the property line of any
street within a radius of 20 feet from the point where the curb line of any
street intersects with the curb line of another street.
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   The penalty for an initial violation of this section shall be a
fine of $25; thereafter, the penalty shall be $50 for a second violation; and
thereafter, the penalty shall be $250 for a third and each subsequent violation
occurring within a consecutive 12 month period. Each occurrence shall
constitute a separate violation. The imposition of said fine shall not prevent
the town from exercising any other remedies as identified for violations of
this chapter, inclusive of collection of costs for enforcement, which include,
but are not necessarily limited to, court costs, Town Attorney fees for
prosecution of violations hereof, and all related similar costs of enforcement.
      (2)   For specific violations of §
90.03(A)(5), as amended from time to time, the penalty for an initial violation
of §
90.03(A)(5) shall be a fine of $100; thereafter, the penalty shall be $150 for
a second violation; and thereafter, the penalty shall be $250 for a third and
each subsequent violation occurring within a consecutive 12 month period. Each
occurrence shall constitute a separate violation. The imposition of the fine
shall not prevent the town from exercising any other remedies, as identified,
for violation of this chapter, inclusive of collection of costs for
enforcement, which include but are not necessarily limited to, court costs,
Town Attorney fees for prosecution of violations hereof, and all related
similar costs of enforcement.
(Ord. 73B, passed 6-26-2012; Am. Ord. 73-C, passed 1-27-2015; Am. Ord. 241-A,
passed 2-24-2015)
§ 90.04 ENFORCEMENT; NOTICE TO ABATE; REMEDIES.
   (A)   In addition to all other remedies, the Town of Winfield may proceed to
abate a public nuisance by proceedings in any court of general jurisdiction,
including proceedings to abate, to sanction, and to recover costs from the
owner, including but not limited to court costs and attorney fees, all in
accordance with the provisions in this subchapter.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer, or designee, shall be responsible for the
administration of these provisions and regulations. Further, in abating any
violations of this subchapter, the town may perform the work required or may
contract with and authorize outside contractors to perform the abatement work
required.
   (C)   As to the owner of property in violation of this subchapter, at least
a ten-day written notice to remove weeds, rank vegetation, and/or grass shall
be issued by the Town Clerk-Treasurer, or designee, and shall be served upon
the owner by a town employee or by certified mail, return receipt requested,
addressed to the owner’s last known mailing address as indicated in the
property records of the Lake County Auditor.
   (D)   The notice to the owner shall include the following:
      (1)   The address of the real property;
      (2)   The date of the notice;
      (3)   The address and telephone number of the town employee issuing the
notice;
      (4)   A warning that in the event that the weeds, rank vegetation, and/or
grass is not removed within a specified period of time after delivery of the
notice, the town will abate the nuisance and seek recovery of the actual costs
involved in the removal;
      (5)   A warning that this notice is a “continual abatement notice”;
      (6)   A statement that the “continuous abatement notice” serves as notice
to the property owner that each subsequent violation during the same year for
which the initial notice of the violation was provided may be abated by the
town, and that future notices may be posted on the property at the time of
further abatement by the town; and
      (7)   That the owner has ten days to appeal a notice to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (E)   Upon the failure, refusal or declination of an owner to bring the
property into compliance within the time specified in the written notice, in
addition to all other available remedies, the town may:
      (1)   Issue a citation for the violation of this subchapter;
      (2)   Enter upon the property and cut the weeds, rank vegetation, and/or
grass at the expense of the owner; and
      (3)   Add to the expense of the removal and cutting, an administrative
cost of $150.
   (F)   In the event that the town enters upon the property of the owner after
the written notice and abates the nuisance, then within 30 days after doing so,
or as soon thereafter as practicable, the town shall send the owner a bill for
the actual costs incurred by the town in abating the nuisance violation plus
the town’s administrative cost. The bill shall require payment within 30 days
of the bill issuance and advise the owner of the right to appeal the bill to
the Town Clerk-Treasurer within seven days of the bill issuance.
   (G)   Upon receipt of a notice to abate or bill, the owner may notify the
Town Clerk-Treasurer of any objection to the notice to abate or bill. This
objection communication shall be in writing to the Town Clerk-Treasurer and
shall specify the street address, legal description of real property involved,
and reason for objection to the notice to abate or bill. Any such
correspondence must be received by Town Clerk-Treasurer within the amount of
time set out in the notice to abate or bill.
   (H)   Upon receipt of such objection correspondence, the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall cause the objection to be investigated. No further action shall
be pursued against that owner to abate the nuisance or pay the bill for
abatement until resolution of the objection thereto. The Town Clerk-Treasurer
shall notify the owner of the final written decision on the objection by first
class mail and the decision of the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be final.
(Ord. 73B, passed 6-26-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 DUMPING AND LITTERING.
   (A)   No person shall throw, place, deposit, dispose of, collect or bring
any garbage, litter, rubbish, or other refuse defined by §
90.02, in or upon any public or private premises, including but not limited to
easements and rights-of-way, within the town limits, except as otherwise
provided.
   (B)   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, or other public place or
upon private property within the town limits.
   (C)   If a person violates any provision of this section, shall be subject
to a citation and fine of $50 for the first violation and at least $50 but no
more than $250 for each subsequent violation.
(Ord. 241, passed 1-27-2015)
§ 90.06 GRAFFITI.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ABATE OR ABATEMENT. The removal or complete covering of graffiti.
      AUTHORIZED INDIVIDUAL. A designee of the director of Town Code
Enforcement.
      DEPARTMENT. The Town Marshal, Town Code Enforcement Officer or designee
(s) of either.
      GRAFFITI. Any unauthorized inscription, word, figure, design, painting,
writing, drawing or carving that is written, marked, etched, scratched.
sprayed, drawn, painted, or engraved on or otherwise affixed on a component of
any building, structure, or other facility by any graffiti implement, visible
from any public property, the public right-of-way, or from any private property
other than the property on which it exists. There shall be a rebuttable
presumption that such inscription, word, figure, painting, or other defacement
is unauthorized. This section does not apply to easily removable chalk markings
on the public sidewalks and streets.
      NUISANCE. The undertaking of an unlawful act, omission, or failing to
perform a duty, or causing, suffering, or permitting any condition or thing to
be or exist, which such act, omission, condition, or thing either:
         (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others;
         (2)   Is offensive to the senses;
         (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk,
stream, easement, ditch, or drainage;
         (4)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property;
         (5)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life
and property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others; or
         (6)   Violates the different ordinances of the town, or provisions of
this code, the Indiana Code, the Indiana Administrative Code, and any
applicable federal law, as amended from time to time.
      OWNER. The record owner or owners as reflected by the most current
records in the Office of the Auditor of Lake County, Indiana.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, cooperative association, private
corporation, personal representative, receiver, trustee, assignee, or any other
legal entity.
   (B)   Prohibited activity.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to apply graffiti to any
natural or man-made surface on any property in the town.
      (2)   The existence of graffiti on public or private property in
violation of this section is a nuisance, as identified in division (A) above
and in §
90.02.
      (3)   It is the duty of the owner of the property to which the graffiti
has been applied to at all times to keep the property free of graffiti.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for an owner to fail or refuse to remove or
cover completely all graffiti within 48 hours after the date of the notice
described herein.
   (C)   Determination of violation; notice of violation.
      (1)   In the event that the town receives a complaint regarding property
that is defaced by graffiti, or observes the same, a complaint shall be
forwarded to the Town Marshal or Town Code Enforcement Officer, who shall make
a record of, and assign a case number to, such complaint. An authorized
individual shall visually inspect the property in question. In the event that
the duly authorized town official determines that the property has been defaced
by graffiti, the town shall issue a notice of violation to the owner, if the
town intends to proceed under the provisions of divisions (E), (F) or (G)
below, of the property.
      (2)   A notice of violation, or code violation citation, as described
herein, shall be issued by personal service; by certified mail, return receipt
requested, postage prepaid; or by posting notice on the property or structure.
Notice shall be deemed effective on the date the notice was personally given to
the owner; the date the notice is mailed; or 48 hours after notice was posted
on the property or structure. The notice shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   The street address of the property;
         (b)   The approximate location of the graffiti on such property;
         (3)   A description of the graffiti; and
         (4)   A statement that the graffiti must be removed or covered
completely 48 hours after the date of the notice to abate the graffiti is
received by the owner, and that failure to do so may result in the town
entering upon the property to remove such graffiti by any means necessary, with
the cost of removal to be collected from the owner of the property, and if the
owner fails to timely pay said cost of removal of graffiti, the cost remaining
unpaid to become a lien on said property.
   (D)   Extensions for managed or actively maintained properties. In the event
that a notice of violation is issued under division (C) above to the owner, and
the property is unoccupied but being actively maintained, the person managing
or actively maintaining that property or the property owner may submit to the
town a written request for an extension of the time provided in division (C)
above if compliance within that time will cause undue hardship. The Department
will establish the manner, method, and form in which such requests must be
made. The Department will also establish a policy to establish the criteria by
which requests for extension of time may be approved.
   (E)   Removal by town authorized. In addition to any fine(s) which may be
imposed under this section, in the event that an owner fails to remove, cover,
or otherwise eradicate the graffiti within 48 hours from the issuance of the
notice, or such later date as the town may allow, the town is authorized to
enter upon the property to remove such graffiti, with the cost of removal to be
collected from the owner of the property.
   (F)   Abatement by town; payment of costs by owner; imposition of lien.
      (1)   In the event that an owner fails to abate a graffiti nuisance
during the time allowed for abatement or fails to respond to the notice of the
nuisance, the town may abate the nuisance at the owner's expense. This remedy
shall be in addition to any other remedy available to the town. Persons
authorized by the town to abate the nuisance may enter private property to
examine a public nuisance, to obtain information to identify the nuisance, and
to remove or direct the removal of the nuisance. Whenever the town shall abate
a graffiti nuisance as provided by this section, the town shall have the option
of selecting a private contractor to abate the nuisance.
      (2)   The town shall charge the owner for all work performed to abate the
graffiti nuisance, and cause the expense thereof to be assessed as a lien on
the property upon which such expense is incurred.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   The first violation of division (B) above in a 12-month period
shall subject an owner to a fine of $50. Any second violation in a 12-month
period shall subject an owner to a fine of $100. Any third or subsequent
offense in a 12-month period shall subject an owner to a fine of $200.
      (2)   A violation shall be considered a second or subsequent violation
whether it occurs on the same property as the first violation or on another
property owned or occupied by the owner. In the event that the owner fails or
refuses to abate a violation within 30 days after the imposition of a fine as
provided hereinabove, such continued failure or refusal shall be considered a
second or subsequent violation.
      (3)   Violations of this section shall be handled by, and in accordance
with the provisions governing the Town Ordinance Violations Bureau. The owner
shall be liable for any lien recording and/or administrative costs associated
with delivering notice to the owner. Further, the owner shall also be
responsible for all collection and reasonable attorney's fees incurred by the
town incurred while enforcing the terms and provisions of this section.
(Ord. 246, 8-25-2015)
CHAPTER 91: BURNING REGULATIONS
Section
Burning Regulations
   
91.01   State regulations adopted by reference
   
91.02   Enforcement authority
Fire Prevention Bureau
   
91.15   Establishment
   
91.16   Director
   
91.17   Inspectors; Fire Department members
   
91.18   Records
   
91.19   Duties
   
91.20   Right of entry
   
91.21   Required inspections
   
91.22   Inspection copies to Building Administrator; violations notice
   
91.23   Notice of violations; public posting
   
91.24   Disconnection of utilities; fire hazard
   
91.25   Funding
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   State building and fire safety codes adopted, see §
151.01
BURNING REGULATIONS
§ 91.01 STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the burning rules and regulations of the state,
as established by the state General Assembly and promulgated by the state
Department of Environmental Management pertaining to burning regulations for
the town. I.C. 13-15 et seq. and 13-17 et seq., as amended, and 326 I.A.C. 4 et
seq. are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference herein as if the same
were fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Subject to 30-days' notice to residents before implementing fines.
(Ord. 71, passed 3-21-2000)
§ 91.02 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The general penalty provisions of this code of ordinances shall apply
to this subchapter, and the enforcement of this subchapter can be any law
enforcement agent, by the Fire Department, and by any town official or agent.
   (B)   Subject to 30-days' notice to residents before implementing fines.
(Ord. 71, passed 3-21-2000)
Penalty, see § 91.99
FIRE PREVENTION BUREAU
§ 91.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The town Fire Prevention Bureau, hereinafter referred to as the Bureau, is
hereby established. The Bureau shall be operated under the supervision of the
Chief of the Fire Department having primary responsibility for fire protection
in the town, hereinafter referred to as the Chief. The Chief is designated as
the executive officer of the Bureau.
(Ord. 58, passed 2-17-1999)
§ 91.16 DIRECTOR.
   The Chief shall designate an officer or member of the Fire Department as
Director of the Bureau. The Chief may delegate executive powers as he or she
deems necessary to the Director to conduct the duties of the Bureau. The
Director shall hold office at the sole discretion of the Chief.
(Ord. 58, passed 2-17- 1999)
§ 91.17 INSPECTORS; FIRE DEPARTMENT MEMBERS.
   The Chief shall determine the number of inspectors in the Bureau and shall
detail members of his or her department to the Bureau as needed.
(Ord. 58, passed 2-17-1999)
§ 91.18 RECORDS.
   The Bureau shall maintain records of all its inspections including dates,
summary of violations, if any, which are found to exist, the date of serving
notice of violations as required by this subchapter, together with memorandums
of final disposition of all violations found to exist, and all other records
and transactions of the Bureau, including facts concerning fires and pertinent
statistics. The records of the Bureau shall be open at all times to be
inspected by the Town Council. The Bureau shall maintain records of all orders
and notices issued.
(Ord. 58, passed 2-17- 1999)
§ 91.19 DUTIES.
   (A)   The state Fire Prevention Code, as amended from time to time by the
state, is hereinafter referred to as the Fire Code.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Bureau to enforce the Fire Code, relevant
to activities in the town, including but not limited to:
      (1)   The prevention of fires;
      (2)   The storage and use of explosives and flammables;
      (3)   The elimination of fire and explosion hazards within existing
buildings and structures, including those under construction;
      (4)   The means and adequacy of egress exits from all commercial
structures and other similar places of gathering;
      (5)   The establishment of fire lanes and parking restrictions to allow
adequate access for fire fighting and other emergency vehicles to structures
and fire hydrants;
      (6)   The investigation of the cause, origin, and circumstances of fires;
      (7)   The issuance of notice of violations of this subchapter and the
Fire Code;
      (8)   Assisting the Building Administrator with fire safety issues and
inspections; and
      (9)   Establishment of a schedule of fees for inspections required under
this subchapter which shall be incorporated into the town’s fee schedule in
Chapter 150 of this code. All fees shall be payable to the town. Fees collected
shall be designated as Fire Prevention Bureau inspection fees and placed in the
town’s General Fund. Inspection fees are due and payable upon written notice to
the owner or occupant of the property inspected. Fees not paid within 30 days
shall be assessed a late fee of not less than $10 or one half the amount of the
original fee, whichever is more. Refusal to pay fees in full is considered a
violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 58, passed 2-17-1999)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.20 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Chief, Bureau Director, and Bureau inspectors, may at all reasonable
hours enter any building or structure, except occupied interiors of private
dwellings, for the purpose of making any inspection or investigation necessary
to enforce this subchapter and the Fire Code.
(Ord. 58, passed 2-17-1999)
§ 91.21 REQUIRED INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Bureau, by its officers and inspectors, to
inspect, as often as necessary to determine compliance, all outdoor fire
hydrants and related appurtenances, and all buildings and structures including
those under construction, except the interiors of occupied private dwellings,
for the purposes of:
   (A)   Ascertaining and causing to be corrected any condition likely to cause
a fire or explosion, or any other violations of the Fire Code relevant to the
structure;
   (B)   Inspecting any manufacturing process, distribution, or storage
facility which utilizes the following: pressurized gases, chemicals,
explosives, flammable materials, and any other hazardous materials;
   (C)   Inspecting sprinkler systems, portable or permanent fire extinguishing
devices, and any appliance designated by the Chief necessary to enforce the
Fire Code;
   (D)   Inspecting commercial structures and places of assembly for
maintenance of Fire Code required egress exits;
   (E)   Investigating complaints concerning violations of this subchapter or
the Fire Code; and
   (F)   Issuing and posting notices of Fire Code violations.
(Ord. 58, passed 2-17-1999)
§ 91.22 INSPECTION COPIES TO BUILDING ADMINISTRATOR; VIOLATIONS NOTICE.
   (A)   The Bureau shall provide copies of relevant inspections to the
Building Administrator for structures, fire hydrants, and related appurtenances
under construction or being remodeled under a location improvement permit
issued by the town or prior to release of a performance bond held by the town
for improvements covered by this subchapter or the Fire Code. The Bureau and
the Building Administrator shall create and maintain a list of inspections
deemed relevant to this section.
   (B)   The Bureau shall also notify the Building Administrator if, during the
course of its normal inspections, it is suspected that other building code
violations beyond the authority of the Bureau may exist which should be
examined by the town’s building inspectors. Likewise, the Building
Administrator shall notify the Bureau of any suspected Fire Code violations
which the town’s building inspectors may find in their normal course of
business.
   (C)   The Building Administrator may withhold issuance of a certificate of
occupancy, if requested by the Bureau, due to violations of this subchapter,
including unpaid Bureau inspection fees.
(Ord. 58, passed 2-17-1999)
§ 91.23 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS; PUBLIC POSTING.
   When the Chief, Bureau Director, or any Bureau inspector determines that
significant violations of the Fire Code were found during an inspection, they
shall provide written notice to the owner or occupant of those violations and
may post a written notice to the public on the structure or property containing
the violation. In cases where violations, including but not limited to
structural damage by fire or explosion, are sufficient to constitute a
significant danger to human life and cannot be remedied by immediate repair,
the Chief shall place a conspicuous notice on the property with a sign stating
Condemned by Order of the Chief of the Fire Department. Removal of any posted
Bureau notice without authorization of the Chief or the Bureau Director shall
constitute a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 58, passed 2-17-1999)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.24 DISCONNECTION OF UTILITIES; FIRE HAZARD.
   In cases where a fire hazard is found by a Bureau officer or inspector which
constitutes immediate danger to human life due to defective electrical or gas
fixtures or connections, the inspector or officer shall immediately disconnect
or shut off the appropriate utility service at the nearest safe disconnect or
shut-off. A written notice shall be placed at the point of disconnect or shut-
off stating: “Disconnected by Order of the Fire Department. Do Not Remove this
Notice or Reconnect Service Without Fire Department Approval. If determined
appropriate by the Chief or Bureau Director, the utility provider shall be
notified of the violation to provide a complete disconnection of service.
(Ord. 58, passed 2-17-1999)
§ 91.25 FUNDING.
   The town shall establish a budget for the Bureau for office supplies, record
storage, and other reasonable expenses as deemed necessary by the Town Council
during its annual budget preparation. The Chief shall provide assistance to the
Town Council in determining a reasonable budget for Bureau expenses. If
possible, prior to establishment of a formal budget, the Town Council may
appropriate funds from revenues collected by the Bureau’s inspection fees to
offset the Bureau’s expenses.
(Ord. 58, passed 2-17-1999)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates a provision of this subchapter or any regulation
herein contained shall be fined for each day’s violation. Each violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 58, passed 2-17-1999)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   License tags and taxation of dogs
   
92.03   Nuisance dogs
   
92.04   Vicious dogs
   
92.05   Dangerous and reckless dogs
   
92.06   State animal control laws
   
92.07   General town regulations
 
   
92.99   Penalty
DOGS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   DANGEROUS DOGS. Any dog which:
      (1)   Has, off its owner's property, attacked or attempted to attack
another animal or livestock; or
      (2)   Has attacked or which has attempted to attack, unprovoked, any
human being, whether on or off the owner's property; or
      (3)   Has bitten or attacked a person, unprovoked, with said injury
requiring attention and the loss of blood; or
      (4)   Has a history documented with a pubic agency of biting or attacking
humans or domestic animals; or
      (5)   Has a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack, to cause
injury or otherwise threaten or endanger the safety of humans or domestic
animals; or
      (6)   Has been found to be at-large and has been documented to be at-
large by designated town person by Winfield Town Council on three or more
separate occasions in a 12-month period.
   DOGS. Vertebrate domestic animals of varying breeds s registered and
described by organizations such as the United Kennel Club (U.K.C.), the
American Dog Breeder's Association (A.D.B.A.), and the American Kennel Club
(A.K.C.).
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Animals belonging to species normally kept, harbored, and
maintained by persons as pets, irrespective of the particular reasons for which
an individual animal is kept or maintained.
   LICENSE TAG  and COLLAR. Identification collar and rabies tag of the dog
issued yearly to be worn by the dog at all times.
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, horses, swine, sheep, goats, poultry and other such
animals which are ordinarily kept, bred, or maintained for purposes of animal
husbandry or commercial breeding, but applies to any such animal irrespective
of the particular reason for which such individual animal is kept or
maintained.
   NUISANCE (PUBLIC AND PRIVATE). Any dog whose conduct or behavior includes,
but is not limited to, such things as habitual or repeated destruction,
desecration or soiling of any public or private property, habitual chasing of
persons, cars, or other vehicles or running-at-large that cause a disturbance
to the peace or cause injury or threat of injury to persons or property.
   RECKLESS DOG. A dog with clear and deliberate or grossly negligent disregard
for the safety and welfare of persons and property.
   TO RUN-AT-LARGE. A dog which is loose upon public property or in a public
area, or upon private property other than that of the dog's owner or keeper and
without the consent of the owner or tenant or such private property, without
direct and responsible human control and supervision.
   VICIOUS DOG. A dog which exhibits one of three traits contained in § 92.04.
(Ord. 99, passed 8-20-2002)
§ 92.02 LICENSE TAGS AND TAXATION OF DOGS.
   (A)   The town hereby incorporates the provisions contained in I.C. 15-5-9-
1 et seq. (Indiana's Licensing and Taxation of Dogs and Kennels Law). These
provisions that are attached to the original ordinance as an appendix and
incorporated herein, are being restated and recodified in the town's code of
ordinances to illustrate the level of importance with these provisions are
regarded by the town:
      (1)   I.C. 15-5-9-1: Township Assessor's Duties (Census and Dog Tax);
      (2)   I.C. 15-5-9-2: Township Assessor's Report to Township Trustee;
      (3)   I.C. 15-5-9-3: Township Assessor's Report to County Auditor;
      (4)   I.C. 15-5-9-4: Failure of Dog Owner to Pay Taxes;
      (5)   I.C. 15-5-9-5: Failure of Township Assessor, Assessor's Designee,
or Township Trustee to Perform Duties Under This Section;
      (6)   I.C. 15-5-9-6: Oath of the Dog Owner;
      (7)   I.C. 15-5-9-7: Repealed;
      (8)   I.C. 15-5-9-8: The Township Dog Fund; Creation of the Township Dog
Fund;
      (9)   I.C. 15-5-9-9: The Township Dog Fund; Section Repealed;
      (10)   I.C. 15-5-9-10: The Township Dog Fund; Requirements of a Livestock
Owner to Qualify for Receipt of Damages from the Township Dog Fund;
      (11)   I.C. 15-5-9-11: The Township Dog Fund: Limitations on a Livestock
Owner's Ability to Receive Damages;
      (12)   I.C. 15-5-9-12: The Township Dog Fund; Reports of Destroyed or
Damaged Livestock;
      (13)   I.C. 15-5-9-13: Township Assessor's Furnishing of Uniform Metal
License Tags;
      (14)   I.C. 15-5-9-14: Unlicensed Dogs Becoming Nuisances;
      (15)   I.C. 15-5-9-15 through 15-5-9-17: Miscellaneous Provisions.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements set forth in the Indiana Code, the
town adopts the following additional regulation. The Uniform Metal License Tags
Furnished by the Township Assessor on a yearly basis pursuant to I.C. 15-5-9-13
shall contain the following additional identification information: a collar to
which it is affixed the contact information (such as the name, address,
telephone number) of the licensed owner of the dog.
(Ord. 99, passed 8-20-2002)
§ 92.03 NUISANCE DOGS.
   (A)   A dog shall be regarded as a statutory nuisance if it is:
      (1)   Not licensed pursuant to the provisions of § 92.02 and shall be
regarded as a nuisance pursuant to I.C. 15-5-9-14; or
      (2)   Not immunized pursuant to I.C. 35-46-3-1; or
      (3)   Has violated any other provision of this chapter and other
applicable laws contained in the Indiana Code and the Indiana Administrative
Code.
   (B)   A dog shall be regarded as a general nuisance if it exhibits any of
the following traits and or has committed acts such as:
      (1)   Habitual or repeated destruction of any public or private property;
      (2)   Desecration or soiling of any public or private property;
      (3)   Habitual chasing of persons; and
      (4)   Running-at-large causing a disturbance to the peace or causing
injury to threat of injury to persons or property
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the dog's licensed owner to correct violations
of this section and to pay the applicable penalties assessed and developed by
the town pursuant to § 92.99.
(Ord. 99, passed 8-20-2002)
§ 92.04 VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep, or harbor a vicious dog within the town.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, a dog may be declared vicious by the
town if the following facts or criteria are met:
         (a)   Two or more credible complaints are received from two or more
neighbors, not within the same household, regarding the dog's viciousness and
this dog's viciousness is verified by an Animal Control Officer.
         (b)   The dog, while running-at-large, has bitten a person and the
bite and attack was unprovoked or that the dog exhibits vicious propensities in
present or past conduct including, but not limited to conduct such that the
dog:
            1.   Has bitten a person on one occasion without provocation; or
            2.   Did bite or attack once without evidence of provocation
causing wounds or injuries amounting to serious bodily injury to a person as
defined in Title 35 of the Indiana Code; or
            3.   Could not be controlled or restrained at the time of the bite
or attack to prevent the occurrence; and
         (c)   Any dog whose possession would be unlawful (as a fighting
animal) pursuant to I.C. 35-46-3-8 shall be deemed a vicious dog. Any dog
which, while running-at-large and without evidence of provocation, kills or
seriously injures a domestic pet or livestock may be found to be a vicious dog.
      (2)   That in order to preserve the public health, safety, and welfare of
the community the destruction of a dog is necessary whenever a dog is declared
vicious under the provisions of this chapter. Either the town or Animal Control
Director shall notify the owner of the dog of the declaration. Such notice
shall be served either in person or by certified or registered mail. The dog,
if not already held in quarantine at the Animal Control Center shall be
surrendered to the Director within ten days of receipt of such notification.
The owner must appeal the declaration to the town or the Director or the dog
will be humanely destroyed by the Center at any time during the ten-day period.
Any vicious dog whose ownership is unknown after three days of custody at the
Center or a surrogate location may then be humanely destroyed.
      (3)   Any decision of the Director under the provisions of these sections
may be appealed to the Animal Control Board, which shall hear evidence and
render a decision in this matter. Such appeal by the owner to the Board shall
be filed with the Center within nine days after receipt of notification from
the Center that the dog shall be destroyed. The disposition of the dog shall be
stayed during the appeal process. The decision of the Animal Control Board
shall be final and binding upon the County and upon the appellant. The Board
shall review the information provided by both the town or Director and the
owner of the dog and render a decision to the effect that:
         (a)   The dog is not vicious; or
         (b)   The dog is vicious and should be destroyed.
         (c)   The owner of any dog which is impounded and destroyed under this
section shall be held responsible for payment of any expenses incurred by the
Center for the impoundment and destruction, and failure to pay such a fee to
the Center within fifteen days after destruction of such dog shall constitute a
violation of this section
         (d) In determining such appeals, either the town or the President of
the Animal Control Board shall appoint three members to hear and decide the
matter by simple majority vote without submission of their decision to the
whole Board. Any such panel of three Board members may convene a hearing or
other session with a quorum of two members.
      (4)   This section shall not apply to a dog under the control of a law
enforcement or military agency.
      (5)   This paragraph shall not be construed to prohibit the use of guard
dogs and security dogs for civilian purposes, even though such dogs may display
an aggressive character in keeping with their protective duties. However, such
dogs shall be subject to the viciousness standard of division (A)(1) above.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 15-5-7-1 and 15-5-7-2:
      (1)   If a dog kills or injures any livestock while the livestock is in
the care, custody and control of the livestock owner or his or her agent, the
owner or harborer of the dog is liable to the owner of the livestock for all
damages sustained, including his or her reasonable attorney's fees and the
court costs; if the appropriate dog tax has not been paid on the dog, triple
damages may be awarded; and
      (2)   Anyone may, with the consent of the person in possession of real
estate on which a dog is found, kill the dog if he has observed the dog in the
act of killing or injuring livestock.
(Ord. 99, passed 8-20-2002)
§ 92.05 DANGEROUS AND RECKLESS DOGS.
   The licensed owner's of dangerous and reckless dogs as defined in § 92.01
shall be responsible for the payment of all violations of this chapter, the
Indiana Code, and the Indiana Administrative Code by such dogs.
(Ord. 99, passed 8-20-2002)
§ 92.06 STATE ANIMAL CONTROL LAWS.
   (A)   In addition to any requirements of this chapter the following state
laws governing animal control, in addition to those already contained in this
chapter, are noted and shall be enforced in the town:
      (1)   I.C. 15-17-18-8, which prohibits recklessly allowing domestic
animals to run-at-large (Class B misdemeanor), I.C. 15-17-6-10, or any other
statute prohibiting animals from running at-large.
      (2)   I.C. 15-5-19-13, which prohibits (Class C infraction);
         (a)   Harboring a dog over six months of age which does not at all
times wear a collar with a current township dog tax tag attached; or
         (b)   Permitting a dog to stray beyond the owner's premises unless
under reasonable control of some person.
      (3)   I.C. 35-46-3-1, prohibiting the having of any dog over six months
of age which has not been currently vaccinated against rabies (Class C
infraction, or Class B misdemeanor if the dog bites a person).
      (4)   I.C. 35-46-3-2, prohibiting cruelty to or neglect of vertebrate
animals (Class B misdemeanor).
   (B)   However, the above enumerated statutes are not intended to be
exhaustive of all state laws relating to animals, and the fact that any other
such statute is not enumerated in this section does not imply that the same
will not be enforced by the town authorities within their proper jurisdiction.
(Ord. 99, passed 8-20-2002)
§ 92.07 GENERAL TOWN REGULATIONS.
   No person having ownership or custody of a dog shall, withing the town:
   (A)   Knowingly or negligently permit a dog to run-at-large, or to destroy
or deface shrubbery, lawns, flowers, gardens, or other property;
   (B)   Keep any dog which by barding, howling, yelping or making any other
noise disturbs the peace and quiet of any neighborhood, or which by foul and
noxious odors detracts from the use, enjoyment, and value of surrounding
properties;
   (C)   Keep any dog known to be dangerous or reckless, other than securely
confined in an enclosed area on the premises of the owner with clearly visible
signs posted to warn persons of the presence of such dog;
   (D)   Knowingly or negligently permit a dog to kill or injure livestock or
other domestic animals, or to attack or injure any person who is engaged in
lawful pursuits;
   (E)   Knowingly or negligently permit any dog to chase or harass vehicles or
pedestrians on public streets and sidewalks, or obstruct the normal use of
streets and sidewalks;
   (F)   Fail to confine any female dog or cat in heat in a closed building so
that such animal cannot come into contact with other animals except for planned
and supervised breeding;
   (G)   Walk any dog on the streets or other public places except on a leash
controlled by the dog's owner or other responsible person, and when not on a
leash such dog shall be confined to the property of its owner.
(Ord. 99, passed 8-20-2002)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of the provisions of this chapter, a penalty for which is not
otherwise provided for by Indiana statute shall subject the violator to a fine
of not less than $25 nor more than $2,500, with each day being a separate
violation. Upon a finding of liability, the violator shall also be assessed the
costs incurred by the town in having its attorney prosecute the violation(s).
(Ord. 99, passed 8-20-2002; Am. Ord. 99-A, passed 2-17-2004)
CHAPTER 93: OUTDOOR EVENT/SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT
AND REGULATIONS POLICY
Section
   
93.01   Outdoor events/special events defined
   
93.02   Permit required/permit fee
   
93.03   Permit content(s)
   
93.04   Regulation of outdoor event/special event
   
93.05   Notice of denial of permit application
   
93.06   Alternate permit
§ 93.01 OUTDOOR EVENTS/SPECIAL EVENTS DEFINED.
   Outdoor events or special events are identified and defined to include, but
not necessarily be limited to, any circus, carnival, concert, bazaar, festival,
exhibition, craft fair/show, antique show, car show, flea market, cultural
celebration, or other outdoor event, activity, entertainment source including
fireworks displays, which are held at any place other than a permanent building
or permanent installation, within the town municipal corporate limits, which
has been constructed for the purpose of conducting such activities or similar
activities.
(Ord. 262, passed 7-26-2016)
§ 93.02 PERMIT REQUIRED/PERMIT FEE.
   No person, as defined by this Town Code, shall operate, maintain, or permit
the operation or maintenance of any outdoor event/special event, unless and
until such applicant has been issued a outdoor event/special event permit, as
hereinafter provided. The permit to be used shall be in a form prescribed by
the town, and shall be made available to the public by the town, available
through the town administrative offices. Each and every application, except
applications for outdoor event(s)/special event(s) of not-for-profit
associations or organizations, shall be accompanied by a processing fee of $25
to cover the cost(s) of administrative processing fees. Approval of the permit
shall be expressly subject to the terms and conditions listed within the
permit. The permit shall be filed no less than 60 days prior to the occurrence
of the outdoor event/special event. Scheduling and calendaring shall be within
the sole discretion of the town, so as to ensure proper public safety, security
and oversight for the outdoor event/special event. A cleaning deposit in the
amount of $100 shall be required to be submitted along with the permit
application. Any person sponsoring or operating the outdoor event/special
event, as identified on the permit application, shall be liable to the town for
any cleaning costs incurred by the town which are in excess of the cleaning
deposit amount identified herein above.
(Ord. 262, passed 7-26-2016)
§ 93.03 PERMIT CONTENT(S).
   Each outdoor event/special event permit issued under this chapter, shall
contain any and all information that the town deems necessary and appropriate,
with such permit and application for same, being on the form provided by the
town, as modified and amended from time to time. If at any time the contents of
a permit or application shall be in conflict with the terms of this chapter,
the terms of this chapter shall supersede the inconsistent terms and
provisions, as the same may be contained in the permit and/or application.
(Ord. 262, passed 7-26-2016)
§ 93.04 REGULATION OF OUTDOOR EVENT/SPECIAL EVENT.
   (A)   Alcohol. Any person sponsoring or operating an outdoor event/special
event, which dispenses and serves beer, wine and/or liquor, shall confirm that
it has the proper permits for provision of the same, as may be required by the
Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission, and provide such documentation in form
and content acceptable to the town. The area where alcohol is served shall be
roped or blocked off, with only one entrance to such area, and which area must
be posted with a “NO MINORS” sign. Responsibility for ascertaining age (21 and
up) lies with the sponsor or operator of the event. Serving of any alcohol
shall be governed by the rules and regulations of the State of Indiana. Alcohol
regulation shall be subject to review and oversight by the Town Marshal, or an
authorized representative the Town Marshal’s Office.
   (B)   Music. Any outdoor event/special event which has any type of outside
music, shall end said music no later than 10:00 p.m., Sunday through Thursday,
and no later than 12:00 a.m., Friday and Saturday. Noise regulation shall be
subject to regulation by the Town Marshal, or an authorized representative from
the Town Marshal’s Office.
   (C)   Security. All outdoor event(s)/special event(s) shall be required to
provide security for said event at the sole discretion and determination by the
Town Marshal, or an authorized representative from the Town Marshal’s Office.
Security shall be provided at all outdoor event(s)/special event(s) where
alcohol is being served.
   (D)   Insurance. Any person who is the sponsor or operator of an outdoor
event/special event shall be required to provide proof of financial
responsibility in the form of liability insurance to cover injury to person or
property of not less than $1,000,000 in respect to cases of bodily injury or
death to any one person, and not less than $1,000,000 for each incident of
property damage. No permit shall be issued by the town unless and until proof
of liability insurance is submitted with the permit application which includes
the town as an additional insured under said liability insurance policy.
   (E)   Fire/electrical inspection. Any person who is the sponsor or operator
of a outdoor event/special event shall be required to have an electrical and
fire inspection by the town prior to the commencement of an event which
requires the use of electricity.
   (F)   Parking. Specified parking areas shall be established in cooperation
with the Town Marshal’s Office and Town Street Department, to accommodate any
outdoor event/special event. Residential streets shall not be used for parking
for an outdoor event/special event, unless permitted by the Town Marshal’s
Office and Town Street Department. Any sponsor or operator of an outdoor event/
special event, who is seeking a permit from the town under this chapter, shall
be required to provide a parking plan/schedule for review by the town at the
time the permit application is submitted and filed with the town.
   (G)   Penalties for non-compliance. Any person operating or sponsoring an
outdoor event/special event, who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter, may be liable for a fine up to $250 for the first violation; $500 for
the second violation; and $1,000, for each subsequent violation of this chapter
during a calendar year. Each day a violation occurs shall constitute a separate
violation. The Town Marshal, or an authorized representative from the Town
Marshal’s Office, shall have the authority to immediately close and terminate
any outdoor event/special event for violation of any provisions of this
chapter, and to rescind the permit issued by the town under this chapter.
(Ord. 262, passed 7-26-2016)
§ 93.05 NOTICE OF DENIAL OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   In the event that a permit application is denied, the town shall mail to the
applicant, within three days after the date which the application was denied, a
notice of the denial and reason(s) for denial of the same.
(Ord. 262, passed 7-26-2016)
§ 93.06 ALTERNATE PERMIT.
   If the permit application is denied, the town may in its sole discretion,
authorize the occurrence of the outdoor event/special event on a date, time, or
area different from that identified by the applicant. An applicant accepting
the alternate permit, and the terms/conditions contained therein, shall, within
five calendar days after notice of the action of the town, file a written
notice of acceptance with the town. In addition to any conditions imposed by
the town on an alternate permit, an alternate permit issued under this division
shall be subject to all the terms and conditions imposed on a standard permit
issued under this chapter.
(Ord. 262, passed 7-26-2016)
CHAPTER 94: FIREARMS
Section
   
94.01   Discharging firearms
   
94.02   Prohibition
   
94.03   Regulations
   
94.04   Handgun license application fee
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot, fire, or discharge any firearm
within the town limits, as provided herein. For purposes of this section,
FIREARM shall mean any weapon that is capable of expelling, designed to expel
or may readily be converted to expel a projectile by means of an explosion. The
term FIREARM shall include handguns, machine guns, rifles, shotguns, and all
other weapons which fit the definition of FIREARM as provided herein, as
defined by I.C. §§ 35-47-1 et seq., or any other applicable state or Federal
laws.
(Ord. 278, passed 12-21-2017)
§ 94.02 PROHIBITION.
   That this chapter shall not prohibit the discharge of firearms by certain
exempted persons, namely:
   (A)   Any legally appointed local or federal law enforcement officer acting
within the capacity of his or her authorized duty;
   (B)   Any person, who is legally authorized and licensed to own and possess
a firearm, is acting in self-defense, the defense of their dependents, or the
defense of a fellow citizen(s), if the circumstances are such that a reasonable
and responsible adult, would determine that discharging the firearm is of
absolute and immediate necessity, and that no alternative and less dangerous
solution is feasible at the time, and in doing so, does not violate any local,
state, or Federal laws.
   (C)   Any duly licensed hunters, provided all applicable hunting laws and
regulations are adhered to.
   (D)   Any person discharging a weapon at lawfully operated shooting range,
skeet range, or gun club.
   (E)   That this chapter shall not be construed to restrict or otherwise
prohibit the legal possession, purchase or use of firearms in accordance with
applicable Indiana law, the Indiana Constitution or the United States
Constitution.
(Ord. 278, passed 12-21-2017)
§ 94.03 REGULATIONS.
   This chapter only regulates the discharge of firearms within the town
municipal corporate boundaries and shall not be construed to regulate or
otherwise restrict the following:
   (A)   Firearms, ammunition, and firearm accessories;
   (B)   The ownership, possession, carrying, transportation, registration,
transfer, and storage of firearms, ammunition, and firearm accessories; and
   (C)   Commerce in and taxation of firearms, firearm ammunition, and firearm
accessories.
(Ord. 278, passed 12-21-2017)
§ 94.04 HANDGUN LICENSE APPLICATION FEE.
   (A)   The town establishes the following handgun license application fees:
      (1)   Five year handgun license: no fee;
      (2)   Lifetime handgun license (applicant does not hold a current valid
state handgun license): $50, $30 of which shall be refunded if the license is
not issued; and
      (3)   Lifetime handgun license (applicant possesses a current valid state
handgun license): $40, $30 of which shall be refunded if the license is not
issued.
   (B)   The application fees shall be deposited in the Town Law Enforcement
Continuing Education Fund, as currently set forth in §
34.06, as the same is amended hereafter from time to time, to be used for law
enforcement training duties.
(Ord. 308, passed 9-22-2020)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violations of this chapter shall result in the following
penalties:
      (1)   First offense: $250 fine;
      (2)   Second offense: $750 fine; and
      (3)   Third offense and subsequent offenses: $7,500 fine.
   (B)   Any second and subsequent offenses shall be determined based upon a
calendar year.
(Ord. 278, passed 12-21-2017)
CHAPTER 95: SMOKE-FREE AIR REGULATIONS FOR WORKPLACES AND PUBLIC PLACES
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Prohibition of smoking
   
95.03   Prohibition of smoking in enclosed places of employment
   
95.04   Reasonable distance
   
95.05   Exemptions
   
95.06   Prohibition of smoking in outdoor public places
   
95.07   Removal of smoking paraphernalia and signage requirements
   
95.08   Declaration of establishment as non-smoking
   
95.09   Non-retaliation and non-waiver of rights
   
95.10   Enforcement
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHTRAY. Any receptacle that is used for disposing of smoking materials,
including, but not limited to, ash and filters.
   BAR. An establishment used primarily for the sale of alcoholic beverages for
consumption by patrons on the premises and which holds a retailer's permit
under state law. The term includes, but is not limited to, taverns, nightclubs,
and cocktail lounges.
   BUSINESS. A sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation, or
other business entity, either for-profit or not-for-profit, including, but not
limited to, retail establishments where goods or services are provided to the
public, and other entities where accounting, counseling, legal, medical,
dental, engineering, architectural, or other professional services are
delivered.
   ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering nicotine or
any other substance intended for human consumption that can be used by a person
to simulate smoking through inhalation of vapor or aerosol from the product.
The term includes any such device, whether manufactured, distributed, marketed,
or sold as an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, e-hookah, stig, or vape pen or
under any other product name or descriptor.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who is employed by an employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wages or profit, and a person who volunteers his or
her services.
   EMPLOYER. A person, business, association, municipal corporation, trust or
non-profit entity that employs the services of one or more individual
employees.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and a ceiling that is bounded on a
least two sides by walls, doorways, or windows, whether open or closed. A wall
includes any retractable divider, garage door, or other physical barrier,
whether temporary or permanent and whether or not containing openings of any
kind.
   HEALTHCARE FACILITY. An office or institution providing care or treatment of
diseases, whether physical, mental, or emotional, or other medical or
psychological conditions, including, but not limited to, hospitals,
rehabilitation hospitals, addiction treatment hospitals and facilities, weight
control clinics, nursing homes, homes for the aging or chronically ill,
laboratories, and offices of surgeons, chiropractors, physical therapists,
physicians, psychiatrists, dentists, and all specialists within these
professions. The term HEALTHCARE FACILITY shall include all waiting rooms,
hallways, private rooms, semiprivate rooms, and wards within healthcare
facilities.
   HOOKAH. A water pipe and any associated products and devices which are used
to produce fumes, smoke, and/or vapor from the burning of material, including,
but not limited to, tobacco, shisha, or other plant matter.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. An area under the control of a public or private
employer including, but not limited to, work areas, employee lounges,
restrooms, conference rooms, meeting rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias,
hallways, and vehicles.
   PLAYGROUND. Any park or recreational area designed in part to be used by
children that has play or sports equipment installed or that has been
designated or landscaped for play or sports activities, or any similar facility
located on public or private school grounds or on town grounds.
   PRIVATE CLUB. An organization, whether incorporated or not, which is the
owner, lessee, or occupant of a building or portion thereof used exclusively
for club purposes at all times, which is operated solely for a recreational,
fraternal, social, patriotic, political, benevolent, or athletic purpose, but
not for pecuniary gain, and which only sells alcoholic beverages incidental to
its operation. The  affairs and management of the organization are conducted by
a board of directors, executive committee or similar body chosen by the members
at an annual meeting. The organization has established bylaws and/or a
constitution to govern its activities. The organization has been granted an
exemption from the payment of federal income tax as a club under 26 U.S.C. §
501.
   PUBLIC PLACE. An area to which the public is invited or in which the public
is permitted, including, but not limited to, banks, bars, educational
facilities, gaming facilities, healthcare facilities, hotels and motels,
laundromats, public transportation vehicles and facilities, reception areas,
restaurants, retail food production and marketing establishments, retail
service establishments, retail stores, shopping malls, sports arenas, theaters,
and waiting rooms. A private residence is not a PUBLIC PLACE unless it is used
as a childcare, adult day care, or healthcare facility.
   RESTAURANT. An eating establishment, including, but not limited to, coffee
shops, cafeterias, sandwich stands, and private and public school cafeterias,
which gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests, or employees, as
well as kitchens and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the
premises for service elsewhere. The term RESTAURANT shall include a bar area
within the restaurant.
   SERVICE LINE. An indoor or outdoor line in which one or more persons are
waiting for or receiving service of any kind, whether or not the service
involves the exchange of money, including, but not limited to, ATM lines,
concert lines, food vendor lines, movie ticket lines, and sporting event lines.
   SHOPPING MALL. A public walkway or hall area that serves to connect retail
or professional establishments.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, or pipe, or any other lighted or heated tobacco or plant
product intended for inhalation, including hookah and marijuana, in any manner
or in any form. SMOKING also includes the use of an e-cigarette which creates a
vapor, in any manner or in any form, or the use of any oral smoking device for
the purpose of circumventing the prohibition of smoking in this chapter.
   SPORTS ARENA. A place where people assemble to engage in physical exercise,
participate in athletic competition, or witness sports or other events,
including sports pavilions, stadiums, gymnasiums, health spas, boxing arenas,
swimming pools, roller and ice rinks, and bowling alleys.
(Ord. 303, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 95.02 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING.
   Except as provided in §
95.05, smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed public places within the
town, including, but not limited to, the following places:
   (A)   Aquariums, galleries, libraries, and museums;
   (B)   Areas available to the general public in businesses and non-profit
entities patronized by the public, including, but not limited to, banks,
laundromats, professional offices, and retail service establishments;
      (1)   Bars;
      (2)   Bingo facilities;
      (3)   Childcare and adult day care facilities;
      (4)   Convention facilities;
      (5)   Educational facilities, both public and private;
      (6)   Elevators;
      (7)   Gaming facilities;
      (8)   Healthcare facilities;
      (9)   Hotels and motels;
      (10)   Lobbies, hallways, and other common areas in apartment buildings,
condominiums, trailer parks, retirement facilities, nursing homes, and other
multiple-unit residential facilities;
      (11)   Polling places;
      (12)   Private clubs;
      (13)   Public transportation vehicles, including buses and taxicabs under
the authority of the town, and ticket, boarding, and waiting areas of public
transportation facilities, including bus, train and airport facilities;
      (14)   Restaurants;
      (15)   Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways, and other common-
use areas;
      (16)   Retail stores;
      (17)   Rooms, chambers, places of meeting or public assembly, including
school buildings under the control of an agency, board, commission, committee
or council of the town or a political subdivision of the state, to the extent
the place is subject to the jurisdiction of the town;
      (18)   Service lines;
      (19)   Shopping malls;
      (20)   Sports arenas, including enclosed places and outdoor arenas;
      (21)   Theaters and other facilities primarily used for exhibiting motion
pictures, stage dramas, lectures, musical recitals, or other similar
performances;
      (22)   Tobacco specialty bars; and
      (23)   Tobacco retail stores.
(Ord. 303, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 95.03 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN ENCLOSED PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed areas of places of
employment without exception. This includes, without limitation, common work
areas, auditoriums, classrooms, conference and meeting rooms, private offices,
elevators, hallways, medical facilities, cafeterias, employee lounges, stairs,
restrooms, vehicles, and all other enclosed facilities.
   (B)   The prohibition on smoking shall be communicated to all existing
employees by the effective date of this section and to all prospective
employees upon their application for employment.
(Ord. 303, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 95.04 REASONABLE DISTANCE.
   Smoking shall be prohibited outdoors within a reasonable distance of 15 feet
outside entrances, open windows, and ventilation systems of enclosed areas
where smoking is prohibited, so as to prevent tobacco smoke from entering those
areas.
(Ord. 303, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 95.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding the smoking prohibitions in §
95.03, smoking is permitted in the following locations:
   (A)   Private residences, unless used as a licensed childcare, adult day
care or healthcare facility;
   (B)   None of the areas set forth in this section shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter if smoke from any area enters, either directly or
indirectly, through entrances, windows, ventilation systems, or other means,
where smoking is otherwise prohibited by this chapter.
(Ord. 303, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 95.06 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN OUTDOOR PUBLIC PLACES.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in the following outdoor places:
   (A)   Outdoor seating areas of restaurants, bars, private clubs, and
businesses except those seating areas restricted to individuals over the age of
21 years of age;
   (B)   In all outdoor arenas, stadiums, and amphitheaters. Smoking shall also
be prohibited in and within 15 feet of bleachers and grandstands for use by
spectators at sporting and other public events;
   (C)   Within 15 feet of all outdoor playgrounds; and
   (D)   In outdoor common areas of apartment buildings, condominiums, trailer
parks, retirement facilities, nursing homes, and other multi-unit residential
facilities, except in designated smoking areas, not to exceed 25% of the total
outdoor common area, which must be located at least 15 feet outside entrances,
operable windows, and ventilation systems of enclosed areas where smoking is
prohibited.
(Ord. 303, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 95.07 REMOVAL OF SMOKING PARAPHERNALIA AND SIGNAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All ashtrays shall be removed from any area where smoking is
prohibited by this chapter by the owner, operator, manager, or other person
having control of the area.
   (B)   An owner, operator, manager, or official in charge of a public place
or place of employment, except vehicles, shall post conspicuous signs at each
outdoor entrance that read, "The Town of Winfield Prohibits Smoking Within 15
Feet of this Entrance".
(Ord. 303, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 95.08 DECLARATION OF ESTABLISHMENT AS NON-SMOKING.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, as amended hereafter
from time to time, an owner, operator, manager, or other person in control of
an establishment, facility, or outdoor area may declare that the entire
establishment, facility, or outdoor areas are a smoke-free place.
(Ord. 303, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 95.09 NON-RETALIATION AND NON-WAIVER OF RIGHTS.
   (A)   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire, or in any
manner retaliate against an employee, applicant for employment, customer, or
resident of a multiple-unit residential facility because that employee,
applicant, customer, or resident exercises any rights afforded by this chapter
or reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this chapter.
Notwithstanding the provisions of §
95.99, violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed
$1,000 for each violation.
   (B)   An employee who works in an outdoor area restricted to individuals
over the age of 21 years of age where an employer allows smoking does not waive
or otherwise surrender any legal rights the employee may have against the
employer or any other party.
(Ord. 303, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 95.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Town Code Enforcement Department and the Town Police Department
shall enforce this chapter, as amended from time to time.
   (B)   Notice of the provisions of this chapter shall be given to all
applicants for a business license in the town.
   (C)   Any citizen who seeks to register a complaint under this chapter may
register it with the Town Code Enforcement Department or Town Police
Department.
   (D)   An owner, manager, operator, or employee of an establishment regulated
by this chapter, as amended from time to time, shall inform person(s) in
violation of the appropriate provisions thereof and shall ask those persons to
refrain from smoking. If the person does not stop smoking, the owner, manager,
operator, or employee shall refuse service and shall immediately ask the person
to leave the premises. If the person in violation refuses to leave the
premises, the owner, manager, operator or employee shall contact a law
enforcement agency.
   (E)   In addition to the remedies provided by the provisions of this
section, any person aggrieved by the failure of the owner, operator, manager,
or other person in control of a public place or a place of employment to comply
with the provisions of this chapter, as amended from time to time, may apply
for injunctive relief to enforce those provisions in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 303, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any owner, manager, operator, or other person in control of an
establishment, facility, or outdoor area found to be in violation of this
chapter shall, when found to be in violation, be fined as follows:
      (1)   The issuance of a verbal and written warning for the first
violation;
      (2)   A fine of $200 for the second violation within the same calendar
year;
      (3)   A fine of $400 for the third violation within the same calendar
year;
      (4)   A fine of $800 for the fourth violation within the same calendar
year; and
      (5)   A fine of $1,500 for each additional violation occurring thereafter
within the same calendar year.
   (B)   Repeated violation of this chapter is declared to be public nuisance,
which may be abated by the town seeking a restraining order, preliminary and
permanent injunction, or other means provided for by law, and may bring action
to recover the costs of the nuisance abatement. The town shall be entitled to
recover its attorney fees and costs of enforcement proceedings and legal
actions for any legal remedies utilized for enforcement hereof.
   (C)   The town is authorized to bring civil action against any alleged
violator of this chapter for all unpaid fines, and any and all expenses
incurred by the town to enforce the provisions of this chapter to seek
compliance from the alleged violator. The town shall be entitled to recover its
attorney fees and costs of enforcement proceedings and legal actions for any
legal remedies utilized for enforcement hereof.
   (D)   Each day on which a violation of this chapter occurs shall be
considered a separate and distinct violation. Each violation of this chapter
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 303, passed 2-11-2020)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
   
111.   BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTORS
   
112.   BUSINESS LICENSES
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Peddling, hawking, vending, or soliciting prohibited
   
110.02   Definitions
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 PEDDLING, HAWKING, VENDING, OR SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful and prohibited for any person to carry on the business
or activity of peddling, hawking, vending, or soliciting, on any public street
or way within the town, at any time. This prohibition does not extend to lawful
business activities which occur within the town but acts to prohibit such
activities from occurring from within the public ways and/or streets.
(Ord. 224, passed 11-26-2013)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER, HAWKER, VENDOR. A salesperson, trader or any person who carries as
exhibit, products, goods, wares, or merchandise of any kind for the purpose of
selling or offering for sale, barter, or exchange any product, goods, wares, or
merchandise of any kind of description, whatsoever, traveling by foot, vehicle,
or other conveyance, from place to place, from house to house, or in, about,
along or upon any street, alley, or highway, or any other grounds in the town.
   PERSON. As used herein shall include the singular and plural and shall also
mean and include any individual, firm, partnership, society, or entity
organization.
   SOLICITOR. A person taking or attempting to take orders for the sale of
products, goods, wares, and merchandise of any kind or description whatsoever,
for future delivery, or for services to be furnished or performed in the
future, whether or not such person has, carries or exposes for sale a sample of
the subject of such sale or whether the person is collecting advance payment on
such sales or not, traveling by foot or any type of conveyance, from place to
place, from house to house, or in, along, about, any street or place within the
corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 224, passed 11-26-2013)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person found to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
be required to pay the town’s attorney’s fees, court costs, and any
miscellaneous costs and expenses incurred by the town or its officials incurred
to enforce this chapter and for collection of the fines and penalties
established hereby for violation of this chapter, as amended, specified herein.
(Ord. 224, passed 11-26-2013)
CHAPTER 111: BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTORS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Exemptions and exclusions
   
111.03   Violations
   
111.04   Enforcement authority
   
111.05   Licensing and registration required
Contractor Registration and Licensing
   
111.15   Licensing and registration; application procedure
   
111.16   (Reserved)
   
111.17   Registration expiration and renewal
   
111.18   Registration fees
   
111.19   Insurance required
   
111.20   Bond required
   
111.21   Businesses; registration requirements
   
111.22   Employment termination
   
111.23   Penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE STATUS REGISTRATION. A contractor has met all the registration
requirements set forth under this chapter to work within the town.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Building Administrator for the town.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Any individual, sole proprietorship, firm, partnership,
limited partnership, corporation, or any other form of unincorporated
enterprise or association.
   CONTRACTOR. Any person, except a licensed architect or registered
professional engineer, who in any capacity, other than as the employee of
another for wages as the sole compensation, undertakes to construct, repair,
move, wreck, or demolish any structure or real estate improvement project. The
term includes a subcontractor or specialty CONTRACTOR, but does not include a
person or entity who only furnishes materials or supplies.
   INACTIVE STATUS REGISTRATION. A contractor that meets all the registration
requirements of this chapter except the insurance requirement in § 111.19
below. While on INACTIVE STATUS the contractor may not work within the town but
can maintain his or her registration to avoid having to repeat the registration
process prior to the expiration of his or her current registration. A
contractor with an INACTIVE STATUS REGISTRATION may provide proof of insurance
to the Administrator and/or staff as required under § 111.19 to be placed on
active status and begin working in the town.
   OWNER/OCCUPANT. An individual who owns and lives (or will live upon
completion) in a single- family dwelling which he himself or she herself is
constructing, installing equipment or materials in, altering, remodeling, or
repairing.
   SPECIALTY CONTRACTOR. A contractor who specializes in a particular branch of
the building construction industry and who is required by the state to be
licensed in his or her specialty in order to work in the state.
   TOWN. The Town of Winfield, Lake County, Indiana.
(Ord. 25A, passed 5-16-2000)
§ 111.02 EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   Government employees. An authorized employee of the United States, the
state, the county, or the town, so long as the employee does not hold himself
or herself out for hire and is acting solely within the scope of his or her
governmental employment;
   (B)   Public utilities. Construction, maintenance, and development work
performed by the employees of public utilities that is incidental to their
normal business activities;
   (C)   Owner/occupant. An owner/occupant as defined above in this chapter.
For construction of a new residence, he or she must complete an exemption form
provided by the Building Administrator. The same owner/occupant may not apply
for this exemption again for construction of another new residence within the
next five years; or
   (D)   Federal or state law. Any construction, alteration, or repair of
improvements located on any site or project where state or federal law
supersedes this chapter.
(Ord. 25A, passed 5-16-2000)
§ 111.03 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   All contractors and affected parties subject to this chapter shall
abide by the provisions herein as well as all applicable codes, ordinances, and
laws of the town, county, and the state, or any rules or regulations
promulgated hereto. Contractors are subject to fines by the town for violations
of this chapter. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The following are considered violations of this chapter:
      (1)   Failure of a contractor to obtain a valid registration when
required;
      (2)   Conducting business in the town without a valid, active status
registration;
      (3)   Failure of a contractor to notify the town when information
provided on the registration application has changed or is no longer valid; for
example, change of business name, address, contact names, and the like;
      (4)   Any business entity or contractor providing false information on a
registration application;
      (5)   Contractors or business entities performing work activities or a
profession not listed on a current, valid registration application; and
      (6)   Any individual or business entity who qualifies for, or requests,
an exemption or exclusion from this chapter under false pretenses.
(Ord. 25A, passed 5-16-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.04 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The enforcement of this chapter shall be by the Building Administrator or
such other person as designated by the Town Council.
(Ord. 25B, passed 6-19-2001; Am. Ord. 25F, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 111.05 LICENSING AND REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any contractor who
conducts business in the town must meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Pass a test in their respective trade from any Lake County, Indiana
governmental unit, as proof of licensure in their trade, unless such testing
for that trade is not provided by any Lake County, Indiana governmental unit;
      (2)   Complete an application for and obtain registration with the town
following licensure and passing a test in their respective trade as discussed
in division (A)(1) above; and
      (3)   Must have a valid, active status registration on file at the Town
Office prior to commencement of any work within the town.
   (B)   Work performed by contractors requiring registration shall include,
but not be limited to, any of the following activities or professions:
      (1)   General contractors;
      (2)   Installing septic systems;
      (3)   Electricians;
      (4)   HVAC contractors;
      (5)   Drywall contractors;
      (6)   Roofing contractors;
      (7)   Concrete (poured) contractors;
      (8)   Steel fabricators and erectors;
      (9)   Insulation contractors;
      (10)   Installing drainage tile and conduits or storm drains;
      (11)   Plumbers;
      (12)   Excavators;
      (13)   Landscaping and landscaping maintenance;
      (14)   Pavement contractors;
      (15)   Masonry contractors;
      (16)   Carpentry;
      (17)   Crane operators (other than excavating);
      (18)   Well diggers; and
      (19)   Other construction-related specialties.
(Ord. 25A, passed 5-16-2000)
   (C)   Except as set forth in division (E) below, no person, firm,
corporation, business trust, or any combination of these shall furnish any
labor or supervision in the town unless and until that person, firm,
corporation, business trust, or any combination, shall have passed a test in
their specific trade from any Lake County, Indiana, governmental unit, unless
no test exists for that trade, and be registered with the town, and meet all
the requirements in the manner provided by the town. These requirements
include, but are not limited to, the taking of any contracts or any agreement,
written or oral, when engaged in the business of or holding out to the public
as engaged in the business of installing or repairing electric, plumbing or
sanitation installation, wires, pipes, conductors, or fixtures, or any
carpentry, masonry, concrete, sheet metal, or other sheet goods, plaster or
drywall material, earthmoving or grading, or heating, air condition, or
ventilation equipment.
   (D)   The provisions and requirements of this chapter shall not apply to
those contractors who have already registered with the town for the 2013
calendar year, on or prior to March 26, 2013. This exception shall only be
applicable for the duration of 2013 calendar year. All contractors, regardless
of the last date of registration with the town, shall meet the requirements
pursuant to this section, beginning January 1, 2014.
   (E)   A homeowner who provides public record verification of ownership in
the subject parcel of real estate upon which construction, alteration, repairs
or making of other location (property) improvements are intended to be made to
structures on said real estate may construct, alter, repair or make any other
location (property) improvements on said real estate in the event said
homeowner is not licensed or registered with the town, but only upon compliance
with the following conditions and requirements, namely:
      (1)   The homeowner, at the time of permit issuance, shall attest by
affidavit that the homeowner is the property owner, and is to perform the work.
This affidavit document shall be recorded at the expense of the homeowner for
this information to be available during any title search, and shall run with
the land.
      (2)   In the event that the homeowner is subcontracting any portion of
the work, the homeowner must apply as the general contractor, any subcontractor
(s) engaged or employed shall be licensed and registered with the town, and
their names shall be provided to the Building Department at the time of permit
application.
      (3)   In lieu of providing the names of licensed or registered
contractors for any work on the property of the homeowner, the homeowner shall
be required to prove by objective and verifiable documentation that the trade
in question is one in which they work in a current or former occupation, and/or
answer basic questions relative to code requirements indicating the owner has
sufficient knowledge to properly complete the work, except as set forth
hereinafter:
         (a)   Permits that include plumbing work will only be issued when a
registered plumbing contractor with the town and licensed through the State of
Indiana is listed on the permit application;
         (b)   Permits that include the installation or alteration of
electrical services or mechanical (heating/air conditioning) will only be
issued when a licensed or registered contractor with the town is listed on the
permit application.
      (4)   The homeowner is responsible for the submission of appropriate
building permit application documents and information, and shall be required to
pay all permit, inspection, and re-inspection fees, as any work undertaken and
completed will be inspected.
      (5)   When a homeowner is acting as a general contractor, the homeowner
must show and provide proof of homeowner's insurance that covers the safety of
anybody working with him/her that is not a licensed or registered contractor on
the site.
      (6)   A homeowner is only permitted to construct one new single-family
home every five years under the homeowner's exception rule set forth herein.
      (7)   The homeowner must be onsite when work is being performed by
anybody other than a licensed or registered subcontractor.
      (8)   The homeowner shall comply with all other requirements for
construction, alteration, and making of repairs and/or other location
(property) improvements in the town as set forth in town rules, regulations and
ordinances, as well as under the adopted Building and related Codes and
Regulations of the State of Indiana, all as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 25B, passed 6-19-2001; Am. Ord. 217, passed 4-23-2013; Am. Ord. 217-A,
passed 6-23-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION AND LICENSING
§ 111.15 LICENSING AND REGISTRATION; APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Contractors shall have passed a test in their respective and specific
trade from any Lake County, Indiana, governmental unit, as proof of licensure,
before seeking registration with the town, unless no test for that trade is
available in Lake County. Upon passing a test in their respective and specific
trade, unless no test exists for that trade, as identified in this chapter, a
contractor and/or tradesman may file an application for registration with the
town, on forms provided by the Administrator, in the name of the business
entity of which the contractor conducts business. The application shall be
signed by the individual, general partner, or corporate officer who has legal
responsibility for the business entity and any employees thereof. In situations
where a business entity may have more than one legally responsible person or
corporate officer, that information should also be provided. The application
shall also include at least one contact person for normal business needs and
one emergency contact person available outside normal business hours.
   (B)    The Administrator may require adequate proof of the type of business
entity and personal identification documents. The Administrator may take time
to make reasonable inquiries to verify information provided on the application.
   (C)   The application must include a list of all the activities and
professions, as listed in §
111.05 above, that the contractor and/or tradesman conducts within the town.
The listing must include an individual responsible and a contact person for
each activity and profession.
   (D)   A contractor must have the registration application approved by the
Administrator or staff before it is valid. The Administrator may approve the
registration either as active status or as inactive status.
(Ord. 25A, passed 5-16-2000; Am. Ord. 217, passed 4-23-2013)
§ 111.16 (RESERVED).
§ 111.17 REGISTRATION EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   Each registration expires on December 31 of the year for which it was
issued. New registrations applied for between November 1 and December 31 will
be issued for the current and the following year. The renewal period for the
following year will be November 1 through December 31. Late renewals will be
accepted within 60 days of registration expiration. A registration expired for
more than 60 days will not be considered for renewal. The contractor must
update any information which has changed on his or her renewal application
form. If the contractor adds additional activities and/or professions at the
time of renewal, the additions will be subject to fees for new registration.
The responsibility to renew any registration is strictly that of the contractor
and not of the Building Administrator or the town.
(Ord. 25A, passed 5-16-2000)
§ 111.18 REGISTRATION FEES.
   (A)   All fees must be paid in full before the Administrator or staff can
validate any new registration, renewal, or update.
   (B)   Major changes with a renewal or update may require a new registration
at the discretion of the Administrator or staff.
   (C)   (1)   New registration fees. The fee for a new registration is $100
for each activity and profession listed on the registration application.
      (2)   Renewal registration fees. Renewal fees are $50.
      (3)   Returned check fee. A fee of $20 will be charged for any returned
check and result in the registration being invalidated until that time as all
fees are paid in full.
      (4)   Administrative fee. Administrative fees are $25. An administrative
fee will be added to new and renewal registration fees when annually processed
as costs for review, preparation, and processing the annual registrations which
are applied for.
(Ord. 25A, passed 5-16-2000; Am. Ord. 25-H, passed 9-24-2013)
§ 111.19 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   Each contractor must provide, on an approved form, a certificate of
insurance, issued with his or her business entity as the insured, by an
insurance provider licensed in the state, rated B+ or better. The certificate
must show proof of general liability for property damage and personal injury in
an amount not less than $500,000 for each occurrence, or annual umbrella
liability coverage in an amount not less than $1,000,000. Contractors with
employees must also show proof of worker’s compensation and employer’s
liability insurance in amounts required by the state. Should the contractor’s
required insurance lapse prior to expiration of the registration, the
contractor’s registration will immediately and automatically be placed on
inactive status. It is the responsibility of the contractor to provide a
current certificate of insurance to the Administrator or staff if he or she
desires to maintain an active status registration.
(Ord. 25A, passed 5-16-2000)
§ 111.20 BOND REQUIRED.
   Any applicant, regardless of business status, shall file with the Clerk-
Treasurer an indemnity bond having been recorded in the County Recorder’s
office first, payable solely to the town for any person or property damaged, in
the penal sum of $5,000. This bond is conditioned on the fact that the
applicant shall not violate any of the terms or conditions of the town’s or
county’s ordinances, rules, and regulations, including but not limited to the
building codes. The applicant or holder shall maintain the bond as the
applicant or holder continues to have a license from the town.
(Ord. 25B, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 111.21 BUSINESSES; REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Any applicant that is a corporation or registered LLP, LLC, or a business
recorded with the County Recorder’s office is only required to have one
authorized person registered and licensed by the town. The holder of the
license cannot work for two companies and use that license for both businesses.
Each corporation or business must have at least one employee who is the holder
of a registration for the particular speciality or trade.
(Ord. 25B, passed 6-19-2001; Am. Ord. 25F, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 111.22 EMPLOYMENT TERMINATION.
   If the applicant or holder is no longer employed with the business which
sought the registration or the employment relationship terminates with the
business for which the applicant or holder had secured the registration, then
the business is required within five business days to notify the town, in
writing, of this change in its registration status, and the business’
registration and the holder’s registration shall terminate, expire, and become
null and void. The business shall immediately designate, within five business
days, a new holder that fulfills the requirements above regarding the necessary
testing as listed above, or be required to reapply within ten business days.
(Ord. 25B, passed 6-19-2001; Am. Ord. 25F, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 111.23 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Upon determination by the Administrator that a contractor and/or
tradesman is performing work and is not registered with the town in conformance
with town regulations, the Administrator may issue a citation with a fine for
violations of this chapter in the following manner:
      (1)   $500 for the first violation;
      (2)   $750 for the second violation;
      (3)   $1,250 for the third violation;
      (4)   $1,500 for the fourth violation;
      (5)   $2,500 for the sixth or greater violation(s).
   (B)   Any previously-issued permit for construction of any structure in the
town, in which the violating contractor is or is anticipated to be involved,
may be rescinded and withdrawn at the discretion of the Administrator.
   (C)   Noncompliance with the applicable provisions of the town code by a
registered contractor shall render the contractor subject to revocation and
termination of their registration and licensure with the town without refund of
registration fees for same, upon review and order of the Town Building
Administrator of the facts and circumstances of the noncompliance. Any
contractor whose licensing and registration have been so terminated and revoked
by the Town Building Administrator shall be prohibited from seeking
registration with the town for a period of two years from the date of the order
of the Town Building Administrator revoking and/or terminating the contractor’s
registration.
   (D)   Each day of a violation shall be considered a separate and distinct
violation for which a contractor and/or tradesman will be daily liable for the
penalty of each continuing violation until the violation is remedied.
(Ord. 217, passed 4-23-2013; Am. Ord. 345, passed 2-14-2023)
CHAPTER 112: BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required and application
   
112.03   Issuance and fee
   
112.04   Exceptions
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   HOME OPERATION. An occupation conducted in a dwelling unit, provided that:
      (1)   No person other than members of the family residing on the premises
shall be engaged in such occupation.
      (2)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than 25% percent of the floor area of the dwelling unit
shall be used in the conduct of the home occupation.
      (3)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation
other than one sign, not exceeding two square feet in area, non-illuminated,
and mounted flat against the wall of the principal building.
      (4)   No home occupation shall be conducted in any accessory building.
      (5)   There shall be no primary sales, either wholesale or retail, in
connection with such home occupation.
      (6)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall be met
off the street and other than in a required front yard, except that such off-
street parking shall be limited to driveways not to exceed 20 feet in width.
      (7)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is conducted in
a single-family residence, or outside the dwelling unit if conducted in other
than a single-family residence. In the case of electrical interference, no
equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference
in any radio, television, or telephone receivers off the premises, or causes
fluctuations in line voltage off the premises.
   PERSON. An individual, sole proprietorship, corporation, firm, partnership,
association, organization, trustee, joint venture, or any one of a group acting
as a unit as well as a natural person.
   RETAIL AND SERVICES ESTABLISHMENT. Any business, office, plant, or place
within the town, whether temporary or permanent in nature, and whether within
or without a permanent structure, where services or professional services,
manufacturing, fabrication, construction, assembly, or design occur or where
commodities or goods are sold or offered for sale to the public in general or
to the ultimate consumer of the commodities or goods.
(Ord. 181, passed 8-18-2009)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate or maintain a retail, services, or other
business establishment within the town without first obtaining a business
license therefore as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   An applicant for a business license issued under this chapter shall be
made upon a blank form prepared and made available by the Clerk-Treasurer and
shall state the following information:
      (1)   The name, home address, phone number, and existing or proposed
business address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the owner of the real estate
upon which the business is located;
      (3)   The hours of operation for the proposed retail and service
establishment; and
      (4)   Any other information the town shall find reasonably necessary to
effectuate the purpose of this chapter and to arrive at a fair determination of
whether the terms of this chapter have been complied with by the applicant.
(Ord. 181, passed 8-18-2009)
§ 112.03 ISSUANCE AND FEE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a business license under this chapter
when he or she finds compliance with the following rules and regulations:
      (1)   There is no apparent danger to the health, welfare, or safety of
the people of the town; and
      (2)   The requirements of this chapter and all other governing laws and
ordinances have been met;
   (B)   A town license shall be issued by the Clerk-Treasurer to a successful
applicant under this chapter after payment of a licensing fee of $75. The
license shall be for a term of one year commencing January 1st and expiring
December 31st and shall be renewed annually. A separate license shall be
required for each business, retail, and service establishment operated and
maintained or to be operated and maintained by any person or company. Any
license issued under this chapter is not transferable. Any existing business,
retail, or service establishment not obtaining a license by January 1st of each
year shall be required to pay $150 for the license. Regardless of the date
obtained, the annual license will expire on December 31st of each year.
   (C)   Not-for-profit businesses, such as religious or non-profit
organizations will be exempt from the annual licensing fee provided a copy of
the business tax exemption certificate is provided with the application. All
other fees apply.
   (D)   Business inspection charges will be as follows:
      (1)   Initial business inspections and the first re-inspection will be
completed with no additional fee.
      (2)   Any second or subsequent re-inspection fees will require a fee of
$80 per re-inspection.
(Ord. 181, passed 8-18-2009; Am. Ord. 181-A, passed 9-24-2013)
§ 112.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall not apply to any person or retail establishment
required to obtain a license under any other existing ordinance as of this
date.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to a home operation, as defined herein,
and which is operated in compliance with the requirements of said definition.
(Ord. 181, passed 8-18-2009)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Curfew
   
130.01   Minor curfew regulations
 
   
130.99   Penalty
CURFEW
§ 130.01 MINOR CURFEW REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16, or 17 years of age to be
in a public place:
      (1)   Between 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 10:30 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday; or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or
Friday.
   (B)   It is a curfew violation for a child less than 15 years of age to be
in a public place after 10:00 p.m. or before 5:30 a.m. on any day.
   (C)   Defense to curfew violation.
      (1)   (a)   It is a defense to a violation under division (A)(1) or (2)
of this section that the child was emancipated:
            1.   Under I.C. 31-37-19-27 or I.C. 31-6-4-15.7 (before its
repeal);
            2.   By virtue of having married; or
            3.   In accordance with the laws of another state or jurisdiction;
         (b)   At the time that the child engaged in the prohibited conduct.
      (2)   It is a defense to a violation under divisions (A)(1) and (2)
herein that the child engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
         (a)   Accompanied by the child’s parent, guardian, or custodian;
         (b)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child’s parent,
guardian, or custodian;
         (c)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
            1.   Lawful employment;
            2.   A school sanctioned activity;
            3.   A religious event;
            4.   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
            5.   An activity involving the exercise of the child’s rights
protected under the First Amendment to the Unites States Constitution or
Article 1, Section 31 of the Constitution of the State of Indiana, or both,
such as freedom of speech and the right to assembly;
            6.   An activity conducted by a nonprofit or governmental entity
that provides recreation, education, training, or other care under the
supervision of one or more adults; or
         (d)   Participating in an activity undertaken at the prior written
direction of the child’s parent, guardian, or custodian; or
         (e)   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location
outside Indiana to another location outside Indiana.
(Ord. 220, passed 7-23-2013)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of this chapter shall subject the violator to a fine of no
less than $25 and no more than $2,500 for each violation.
   (B)   Appearance in court. Both the minor child and the parent, guardian, or
custodian charged with a violation of this chapter, and the curfew regulations
established herein shall appear in the court of jurisdiction of the chapter
violation where situated.
(Ord. 220, passed 7-23-2013)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
   
152.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
   
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
   
154.   SOIL CONSERVATION, EROSION CONTROL, AND FILL REGULATIONS
   
155.   SUBDIVISION CONTROL
      
APPENDIX A: CERTIFICATES
      
APPENDIX B: TABLE OF RUNOFF COEFFICIENTS
      
APPENDIX C: STANDARD CONSTRUCTION DETAILS
      
APPENDIX D: INDIANA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION DETAILS
   
156.   ZONING
      
APPENDIX A: DISTRICT USE TABLE
      
APPENDIX B: DESIGN REQUIREMENTS TABLE
      
APPENDIX C: SCHEDULE OF PARKING FACILITIES
      
APPENDIX D: PERMITTED SIGNS
      
APPENDIX E:  SIGN DIMENSIONS AND NUMBER ALLOWED BY ZONING DISTRICT
   
157.   COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
   
158.   LANDSCAPE DESIGN STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS
   
159.   UNDERGROUND AND BURIED UTILITIES DISTRICT
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Advisory Plan Commission
   
150.01   Establishment
   
150.02   Definitions
   
150.03   Membership
   
150.04   Terms of office
   
150.05   Conflict of interest
   
150.06   Duties
Building, Zoning, and Inspection Fees
   
150.20   Fees established
   
150.21   Definitions
   
150.22   Permit expiration
   
150.23   Residential and AG districts; fees
   
150.24   Commercial, M-1, and AG-B districts; fees
   
150.25   Fire Prevention Bureau; inspection fees
   
150.26   Plan Commission fees
   
150.27   Board of Zoning Appeals fees
   
150.28   Work commenced prior to permit; fees
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
150.35   Complete streets program and policy established
ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION
§ 150.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established an Advisory Plan Commission for the town,
pursuant to the authority of I.C. 36-7-4-202.
(Ord. 18, passed 1-22-1997)
§ 150.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The town’s Board of Zoning Appeals.
   COMMISSION. The Advisory Plan Commission of the town.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The comprehensive long-range guide as adopted by the
town.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council.
   TOWN. The Town of Winfield, Indiana.
(Ord. 18, passed 1-22-1997)
§ 150.03 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Commission shall consist of seven members as follows.
   (A)   The Council shall appoint three persons who must be elected or
appointed town officials or employees in the town as members.
   (B)   The President of the Town Council shall appoint four citizen members,
of whom no more than two may be of the same political party.
   (C)   The Council may create and appoint a technical advisory committee or
an ad hoc committee at any time to assist the Commission in the performance of
its functions and duties.
(Ord. 18, passed 1-22-1997)
§ 150.04 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The term of office of a member of the Commission shall be as set forth
below.
      (1)   The term of office of a member who is appointed from the membership
of a legislative body is co-extensive with the member’s term of office on that
body, unless the Council appoints, at its first regular meeting in any year,
another to serve as its representative.
      (2)   Upon the initial appointment, two of the non-elected members shall
have a term of three years and two of the non-elected members shall have a term
of four years. These terms shall expire on the first Monday in January of the
third or fourth year, as the case may be.
      (3)   A member serves until his or her successor is appointed and is
qualified.
   (B)   If a vacancy occurs among the members of the Commission, the
appointing authority shall appoint a member for the unexpired term of the
vacating member.
(Ord. 18, passed 1-22-1997)
§ 150.05 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   A member of the Advisory Plan Commission may not participate in a
hearing or decision of that Commission concerning a matter deemed to be a
conflict of interest under the Rules of the Commission.
   (B)   The Commission shall enter in its records the fact of any
disqualification of this type.
(Ord. 18, passed 1-22-1997; Am. Ord. 234, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 150.06 DUTIES.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Commission shall be:
   (A)   Prepare and recommend to the Council a Comprehensive Plan;
   (B)   Prepare and recommend to the Council zoning and subdivision control
ordinances;
   (C)   Receive and render decisions concerning the approval or disapproval of
all subdivision plats or re-plats;
   (D)   Review all petitions for amendments to the zoning ordinances and
Zoning Map and recommend approval or disapproval to the Council;
   (E)   Conduct public hearings as required by law concerning proposed changes
in the Comprehensive Plan, zoning ordinances, or other regulations and
provisions to this title;
   (F)   Review and revise the Comprehensive Plan, zoning ordinances, and other
regulations and provisions of this title to insure compliance with changing
conditions;
   (G)   Review all proposals of the abandonment or vacation of public
thoroughfares and platted lots and recommend approval or disapproval to the
Council;
   (H)   Appoint and prescribe the duties and fix the compensation of those
employees as are necessary for the discharge of the duties of the Commission;
and
   (I)   Supervise and make rules for the administration of the affairs of the
Commission.
(Ord. 18, passed 1-22-1997)
BUILDING, ZONING, AND INSPECTION FEES
§ 150.20 FEES ESTABLISHED.
   The fee schedules below are hereby adopted and the charges specified therein
shall be assessed by the town for the functions described.
(Ord. 41, passed 2-18-1998)
§ 150.21 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BASEMENT. A portion of a building which is partially or entirely below
grade, so that the distance between the floor and the average external grade is
at least 51% of that of the floor to ceiling height. Any portion of a BASEMENT
which is intended to be used, or specifically designed to be used, as living
space will be charged the living space rate for purposes of calculating
building permit fees in this subchapter.
      CONDOMINIUM. Property subject to I.C. 32-32-25.
      CONSTRUCTING. See OPENING.
      GARAGE. Structures designed to store motor vehicles and other personal
property and not designed or intended to be used as living space.
      LIVING SPACE. All floor area of any building or portion thereof designed
or modified to be used as permanent living facilities, including but not
limited to provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking, recreation, entertainment,
and sanitation. All hallways, closets, utility rooms, laundry rooms, and
storage facilities constructed as an integral part of the living area are also
considered LIVING SPACE. Garages and basements as defined in this section and
any integral storage spaces thereof are not considered LIVING SPACE.
      MULTI-FAMILY. Any single structure that contains more than two
residential dwelling units.
      ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. Any housing structure permitted under the
State of Indiana One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code (CABO), including townhomes.
      OPENING. Any opening made by an individual, company, agent or
representative, of a town street, allay, sidewalk or any portion of the public
way, including any turf areas or areas not covered by impervious surfacing.
      SWIMMING POOL. Any pool subject to the state Swimming Pool Code.
   (B)   Terms not specifically defined in this section have meanings defined
in the town’s adopted building codes, or if not defined in those codes, their
customary meaning as used in the construction trade.
(Ord. 41, passed 2-18-1998; Am. Ord. 41I, passed 2-15-2010; Am. Ord. 210,
passed 9-11-2012)
§ 150.22 PERMIT EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Multi-family (two or more units). Multi-family (two or more) unit
permits expire two years from the date of issuance. However, if construction is
not commenced within six months of issuance of said permit, it shall be revoked
and be rendered null and void and the permit fees, less an administration
charge equal to 25% of the original permit fee charged and collected shall be
refunded upon written demand made prior to such revocation. Multi-family
permits may be renewed prior to expiration in three-month intervals for 25% of
the current fee calculated under the applicable provisions of this chapter.
Expired permits may also be renewed only after a violation inspection and
correction of any existing violations and payment of the entire current fee
under the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Commercial/business. Commercial and business permits expire two years
from the date of issuance. However, if construction is not commenced within six
months of issuance of said permit, it shall be revoked and be rendered null and
void and the permit fees, less an administration charge equal to 25% of the
original permit fee charged and collected shall be refunded upon written demand
made prior to such revocation. Commercial/business permits may be renewed prior
to expiration in three-month intervals for 25% of the current fee calculated
under the applicable provisions of this chapter. Expired permits may also be
renewed only after a violation inspection and correction of any existing
violations and payment of the entire current fee under the applicable
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Accessory structures. Pool, deck, fence, shed (240 square feet or
less) and other accessory structure permits expire six months from the date of
issuance. However, if construction is not commenced within six months of
issuance of said permit, it shall be revoked and be rendered null and void and
the permit fees, less an administration charge equal to 50% of the original
permit fee charged and collected shall be refunded upon written demand made
prior to such revocation. Accessory structure permits may be renewed prior to
expiration for one six-month extension for 50% of the current fee calculated
under the applicable provisions of this chapter. Expired permits may also be
renewed only after a violation inspection and correction of any existing
violations and payment of the entire current fee under the applicable
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Single-family residential and/or accessory structures (over 240 square
feet). All permits expire one year from the date of issuance. However, if
construction is not commenced within six months of issuance of said permit it
shall be revoked and be rendered null and void and the permit fees, less an
administration charge equal to 25% of the original permit fee charged and
collected shall be refunded upon written demand made prior to such revocation.
Permits may be renewed prior to expiration in three-month intervals for 25% of
the current fee calculated under the applicable provisions of this chapter.
Expired permits may also be renewed only after a violation inspection and
correction of any existing violations and payment of the entire current fee
under the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Extended permit option. The original permit may be extended for one
additional year (two years from date of issuance) for an additional fee of 50%
of the original cost, if requested and paid for, at the time of the original
permit application. Extended permits may be renewed prior to expiration in
three-month intervals for 25% of the current fee calculated under the
applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 41, passed 2-18-1998; Am. Ord. 115, passed 4-1-2004; Am. Ord. 41-G,
passed 8-18-2009; Am. Ord. 41I, passed 2-15-2010; Am. Ord. 210, passed 9-11-
2012)
§ 150.23 RESIDENTIAL AND AG DISTRICTS; FEES.
   (A)   Fee zones. The following are building permit fees, zoning fees, and
inspection fees for districts AG, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, MF, and PDR.
   (B)   Residential building permit fees.
Residential Building Permit Fees for New Construction and Remodeling, Based
on Floor Space
Type of Dwelling Type of Construction Fees
Residential Building Permit Fees for New Construction and Remodeling, Based on
Floor Space
Type of Dwelling              Type of Construction            Fees
Multi-family and condominiums Basements, single-family access $0.65 per sq. ft.
                              and use only
Multi-family and condominiums Garages, attached and           $0.43 per sq. ft.
                              unattached
Multi-family and condominiums Living areas and common areas   $0.70 per sq. ft.
Multi-family and condominiums Crawl space                     $0.43 per sq. ft.
One- and two-family dwellings Basements                       $0.54 per sq. ft.
One- and two-family dwellings Garages, attached and           $0.38 per sq. ft.
                              unattached
One- and two-family dwellings Living space                    $0.70 per sq. ft.
One- and two-family dwellings Crawl space                     $0.43 per sq. ft.
 
   (C)   Accessory building or structure permit fees.
Residential Accessory Building or Structure Permit Fees for New Construction
and Remodeling, Based on Floor Space
Type of Structure Type of Construction Fees
Residential Accessory Building or Structure Permit Fees for New Construction
and Remodeling, Based on Floor Space
Type of Structure   Type of Construction                   Fees
Buildings and
structures used in
direct production
of agricultural                                           $0.35 per sq. ft.
commodities and
livestock, and
related equipment
storage
Communication       Satellite dishes over 24 inches in     $35 each
towers and antennas diameter
Communication       Standalone towers and antennas         $5 per ft. in height
towers and antennas
Communication       Roof- or wall-mounted towers and       $25 each
towers and antennas antennas
Communication       Engineering fees if required           Paid by permit
towers and antennas                                        holder
Construction                                              $350 each
trailers
Multi-family and    Decks, porches, patios, storage        $0.25 per sq. ft.
condominiums        buildings
One- and two-family Decks, porches, patios, storage        $0.25 per sq. ft.
structures          buildings
Swimming pools      Above ground up to 30 feet in diameter $55 each
Swimming pools      Each additional foot over 30 or        $0.15 per ft.
                    fraction thereof
Swimming pools      In ground up to 800 square feet (20 × $100 each
                    40)
Swimming pools      Each additional sq. ft. over 800 or    $0.15 per sq. ft.
                    fraction thereof
 
   (D)   Certificate of occupancy fees.
 
Certificate of Occupancy Fees for New Residential Construction and
Remodeling
Type of Structure       Type of Dwelling                Fees
Accessory buildings, if Multi-family and condominiums   $25 each structure
required
Accessory buildings, if One- and two-family structures, $30 each structure
required                agricultural
Residences              Multi-family and condominiums   $60 each unit
Residences              One- and two-family structures  $40 each unit
 
   (E)   Zoning fees.
Zoning Fees, Residential
Type of Structure Type of Construction Type of Dwelling Fees
Zoning Fees, Residential
Type of Structure Type of Construction Type of Dwelling     Fees
Accessory         New construction and One- and two-family, $35 each structure
structures        demolition           agricultural
Accessory         New construction and Multi-family and     $35 each structure
structures        demolition           condominiums
Dwelling units    New construction     One- and two-family  $135 each structure
                                       structures
Dwelling units    New construction     Multi-family and     $235 each structure
                                       condominiums
                  Additions,           Single-family
Dwelling units    remodeling, and      structures           $140 each structure
                  demolition
                  Additions,           Multi-family and
Dwelling units    remodeling, and      condominiums         $50 each structure
                  demolition
 
   (F)   Other construction permit fees.
Other Residential Construction Permit Fees
Type of Permit Comments Fees
Other Residential Construction Permit Fees
Type of Permit                                 Comments                        Fees
                                               Not allowed in easements
Fence permit                                   without affidavit release       $75 per fence
                                               Includes zoning fee–all zones
                                                                               $250
                                                                               administrative,
Foundation-only permit; optional               Details in division (L) of this plus $.50 per
                                               section                         sq. ft. of area
                                                                               covered by the
                                                                               foundation
Replacement permit cards                                                      $25 each
Sign permit                                    Non-exempt, includes zoning fee $35 per sign
Sign permit–Real estate                      Non-exempt, includes zoning     $35 per sign
                                               fee, 4 sq. ft.
                                               See Ordinance 75A (§§
                                               154.01–
                                               154.06;                         $150 per
Site development                               154.20–                       property
                                               154.28;
                                               154.40–
                                               154.42)
Utility service change or upgrade–permit and Gas, electric, sewer, septic,   $120 each
inspection                                     private well, or community      service change
                                               water system
 
   (G)   Inspection fees.
Inspection Fees, Residential
Type of Inspection Item Item Details Fees
Inspection Fees, Residential
Type of Inspection              Item                   Item        Fees
                                                       Details
                                At anytime a permit
                                needs to be amended,
Amended permit fee              plus costs (i.e.,                 $50
                                inspections, square
                                footage, and the like)
Concrete floors or walls, pre-  Base and vapor         3,000 sq.   $55 each
pour                            barrier, when          ft. area or structure
                                used–driveways       less
                                                       Each
                                                       additional
Concrete floors or walls, pre-  Base and vapor         1,000 sq.   $25 each
pour                            barrier, when used     ft. or      additional
                                                       fraction
                                                       thereof
Concrete floors or walls, pre-                         3,000 sq.   $55 each
pour                            Concealed utilities    ft. area or structure
                                                       less
                                                       $10 each
                                                       additional
Crawl                           2,500 sq. ft. or less  1,000 sq.   $55
                                                       ft. area or
                                                       fraction
                                                       thereof
Deck, pre-pour                                                   $55
Drywall hanging                                                  $55
Electrical service, new or      100 amp or less                   $160 each
change                                                             service
                                                                   $75 plus
Electrical service, reconnect   100 amp or less                   inspection fee
                                                                   of $55
Electrical service, new or      Each additional 100
change                          amp or fraction                   $60
                                thereof
                                Each additional 100
Electrical service, reconnect   amp or fraction                   $60
                                thereof
                                Addition of new branch
Electrical service, new or      circuits with service  Per panel   $60
change–subpanel               change or remodeling
                                only
Erosion control                 Property check                    $55
                                                       Use
                                                       categories  See rough-in
Final                                                 as for      fees below
                                                       rough-in
                                                       below
Fireplace–mechanical                                           $55
Fireplace–masonry                                              $100
Footings                        2,500 sq. ft. in area             $55 each
                                or less                            structure
Footings–pre-pour             2,500 sq. ft in area              $55 each
                                or less                            structure
                                Each additional 1,000
Footings                        sq. ft. or fraction               $25
                                thereof
                                Each additional 1,000
Footings–pre-pour             sq. ft. or fraction               $25
                                thereof
Footings–pre-pour             2,500 sq. ft. in area             $165
(Single Family)                 or less
Footings–pre-pour             2,500 sq. ft. in area             $110
(Duplex)                        or less
Footings–pre-pour             2,500 sq. ft. in area             $80
(Town Home)                     or less
Foundation                      2,500 sq. ft. in area             $55 each
                                or less                            structure
Footings–pre-pour             2,500 sq. ft in area              $55 each
                                or less                            structure
                                Each additional 1,000
Foundation                      sq. ft. or fraction               $25
                                thereof
                                Each additional 1,000
Footings–pre-pour             sq. ft. or fraction               $25
                                thereof
Ice/shield roof                                                  $55 each
Insulation                      5,000 sq. ft in area              $55
                                or less
                                Each additional 1,000
Insulation                      sq. ft. or fraction               $25
                                thereof
                                                       Plus
Maintenance/repair, deck                              inspection  $50 base fee
                                                       (s), as
                                                       needed
Maintenance/repair, re-                                Plus
roofing, downspouts, fascia/                          inspection  $50 base fee
gutter                                                 (s), as
                                                       needed
                                                       Plus
Maintenance/repair, siding/                           inspection  $50 base fee
exterior change                                        (s), as
                                                       needed
                                                       Plus
Maintenance/repair, HVAC,                             inspection  $50 base fee
plumbing, hot water tank                               (s), as
                                                       needed
Masonry                                                          $55
Parking lots, multi-family and                         One hour    Per
condominiums only               Subgrade–engineering minimum     engineering
                                                                   fee
Parking lots, multi-family and  Pre-                   One hour    Per
condominiums only               pavement–engineering minimum     engineering
                                                                   fee
                                Any of: footings,
                                foundation, concrete
                                floors or walls (pre-
Re-inspections                  pour), electrical                 $50 flat fee
                                service (new or
                                change), rough-in, or
                                final
                                                       Total of
                                                       plumbing,
Rough-in                        Total fee              HVAC,       $220 minimum
                                                       electric,
                                                       and framing
                                                       fees below
Rough-in                        Plumbing               3 bathrooms $55 each
                                                       or less     structure
                                                       Each        $25 per
Rough-in                        Plumbing               additional  bathroom
                                                       bathroom
                                                       3,000 sq.
                                                       ft. of      $55 each
Rough-in                        HVAC                   conditioned structure
                                                       space or
                                                       less
                                                       Each
                                                       additional
Rough-in                        HVAC                   1,000 sq.   $25
                                                       ft. or
                                                       fraction
                                                       thereof
                                                       3,000 sq.
Rough-in                        Electric               ft. floor   $55 each
                                                       space or    structure
                                                       less
                                                       Each
                                                       additional
Rough-in                        Electric               1,000 sq.   $25
                                                       ft. or
                                                       fraction
                                                       thereof
                                                       3,000 sq.
Rough-in                        Framing                ft. of      $55
                                                       floor space
                                                       or less
                                                       Each
                                                       additional
Rough-in                        Framing                1,000 sq.   $25
                                                       ft. or
                                                       fraction
                                                       thereof
Temporary occupancy fee         To convert temporary              $110
                                occupancy to final
                                                       Plus
Window replacement                                    inspection  $50 base fee
                                                       (s), as
                                                       needed
                                                       Plus
Driveways, replacement                                inspection  $50 base fee
                                                       (s), as
                                                       needed
                                                       Requires
Irrigation systems                                    testing     $75
                                                       agent
                                                       As set by
Others as required–3 units or Fire Code, when        Fire        As given in §
more                            required               Prevention  150.25
                                                       Bureau
                                Miscellaneous (not                 As determined
Others as required              listed above), when               by Building
                                required                           Administrator
Sanitary sewer line connection                                   $55
Violations inspection                                            $225 each
                                                                   violation
 
   (H)   Relocated structure or building permit fees, residential. The same
fees apply as are applied above to new construction.
   (I)   Demolition fees.
 
Demolition Fees, Residential
Type of Structure             Fees
All accessory buildings       $40 each structure
Multi-family and condominiums $100 for first 5,000 sq. ft. and $25 for each 600
                              sq. ft. thereafter
One- and two-family residence $75 each structure
Required inspections          Use schedule above
Engineering fees if required  Paid by permit holder
 
   (J)   Minimum fees, residential. No permit fee for a construction or
remodeling project shall be less than $50. The zoning fee if required, the cost
of any required inspection fees as listed above, and the cost of a certificate
of occupancy if required, are additional costs. The minimum permit fee does not
apply to a fence-only permit or demolition permits.
   (K)   Basement conversions to living space. Reduced fee basements for which
permit fees were paid under division (B) of this section are given a special
rate for remodeling that converts any existing area of the basement to living
space. The special rate is calculated by subtracting the basement rate from the
living space rate. Rates used in the calculation are as of the day the
remodeling permit is approved. Other applicable fees are at rates stated in the
above divisions. The reduced fee is not available for basement additions.
   (L)   Foundation-only permits, residential; optional.
      (1)   A permit for a structure foundation may be issued prior to the
application for and approval of permits required under divisions (B) and (C)
above. The Town Building Administrator and the Town Engineer shall set
guidelines for information required to be submitted. Consideration of this type
of permit is restricted as described in § 150.28(D) of this code.
      (2)   The applicant will complete a waiver approved by the Plan
Commission Attorney as part of the requirements for the permit.
      (3)   The scope of this permit is limited to footings, foundation walls
of which at least 51% will be below grade, and concrete floors at or below
grade. Plumbing, electrical, and HVAC work is limited to those specific items
needed prior to backfilling and/or pouring concrete floors.
      (4)   This permit expires in 30 days from issuance unless a complete
application for a building permit as required in divisions (B) or (C) of this
section is filed with the Building Administrator prior to expiration unless the
Building Administrator approves for extension prior to expiration. Once the
building permit required in this section is approved and released by the
Building Department, the applicant shall pick up and pay for the building
permit within 30 days of the date of notification by the Building Department.
      (5)   (a)   The fees shall be as given in division (F) above. All
necessary inspection fees will be charged per division (G) above.
         (b)   A credit will be issued for the portion of the valid foundation-
only permit fee based on square footage to be used only for the subsequent
building permit. The credit is limited to the amount of the building permit fee
based on square footage under division (B) or (C) above, whichever is
applicable, for the same structure as the foundation-only permit. No credit
will be given for expired foundation-only permits.
      (6)   If this permit expires, no fees will be credited or refunded, and
the applicant must re-apply for a foundation-only permit or make application
for a full permit under division (B) or (C) above.
   (M)   Street, alley, sidewalk, public way opening permit fees.
 
Type of Permit             Comments                 Fees
Street opening             Any cut or opening made. $250
Alley opening              Any cut or opening made. $250
Sidewalk opening           Any cut or opening made. $250
Rights-of-way turf opening Any cut or opening made. $125
 
 
Type of Inspection Comments                           Fees
Street and alley   Any cut or opening made.           Direct cost reimbursement
Sidewalk           Any cut or opening made.           Direct cost reimbursement
Public way         Any cut or opening made, including Direct cost reimbursement
                   turfed areas.
 
      (1)   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single
project, and shall be issued by the executive or other duly designated town
representative. Application shall be made on a form proscribed by the Town
Council providing the exact location of the proposed opening, the kind or type
of paving, turf or fill, the area and depth to be excavated, and such other
facts and information as may be required. The town and/or the Town Engineer
reserves the right to impose reasonable conditions upon the applicant, as well
as the right to deny the application in order to protect town improvements or
upon a finding that a less intrusive method exists.
      (2)   No permit shall be issued until or unless the applicant tenders and
pays the fee required in conformance with the schedule contained hereinafter.
The permit fee is in an amount reasonably calculated to cover at least a
portion of the cost of restoration and maintenance of the opening, as well as
all other related administrative expenses thereto.
      (3)   All such fees collected for the purposes stated herein shall be
deposited in the town’s General Fund for use consistent with the requirements
of this chapter, as amended hereafter from time to time.
      (4)   The opening, restoration and maintenance of a pavement or other
surface shall be performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the
Town Engineer, or other duly designated town representative, and in accordance
with rules, regulations, and specifications approved by the Town Council.
      (5)   In the event of the failure and/or refusal of the permittee to
satisfactorily fill the excavation, restore the surface and remove all excess
materials in accordance with the terms of the permit, and within the time
specified in the permit, or where such time period is not specified in the
permit within a reasonable time, the town may proceed to make such fill and
restoration. In the event the amount of the costs incurred by the town exceed
the amount of the restoration services performed by it, the town shall be
entitled and permitted to collect any excess amount due and owing from the
permittee, including attorney’s fees, court costs, and similar related expenses
of collection.
(Ord. 41, passed 2-18-1998; Am. Ord. 41A, passed 3-17-1999; Am. Ord. 41B,
passed 3-18-2004; Am. Ord. 120, passed 11-16-2004; Am. Ord. 41D, passed 2-12-
2006; Am. Ord. 41E, passed 3-21-2006; Am. Ord. 41F, passed 12-16-2008; Am. Ord.
41H, passed 10-20-2009; Am. Ord. 41I, passe 2-15-2010; Am. Ord. 210, passed 9-
11-2012; Am. Ord. 41-J, passed 9-24-2013; Am. Ord. 41-K, passed 10-8-2019; Am.
Ord. 41-L, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 150.24 COMMERCIAL, M-1, AND AG-B DISTRICTS; FEES.
   (A)   Fee zones. The following are building permit fees, zoning fees, and
inspection fees for districts AG-B, C-1, C-2, C-3, M-1, and PDC.
   (B)   Building permit fees.
 
Building Permit Fees for New Commercial, M-1, and AG-B Zoning District
Construction and Remodeling, Based on Floor Space
Type of Structure                           Type of Use Fees
All usual buildings                         Any use     $0.80 per sq. ft.
Special buildings open on two or more sides Any use     $0.65 per sq. ft.
 
   (C)   Accessory structure permit fees. 
Accessory Structure Fees for New Commercial, M-1, and AG-B Zoning District
Construction and Remodeling, Based on Floor Space
Type of Structure Type of Construction Fees
Accessory Structure Fees for New Commercial, M-1, and AG-B Zoning District
Construction and Remodeling, Based on Floor Space
Type of Structure                             Type of          Fees
                                              Construction
                                              Satellite
Communication towers and antennas             dishes, over 18  $60 each
                                              inches in
                                              diameter
                                              Standalone       $6 per ft. in
Communication towers and antennas             towers and       height
                                              antennas
                                              Roof- or wall-
Communication towers and antennas             mounted towers   $35 each
                                              and antennas
Communication towers and antennas             Engineering fees Paid by permit
                                              if required      holder
Decks, porches, patios                                        $0.40 per sq.
                                                               ft.
Lighting standards, or poles                                  $30 each
Swimming pools–up to 800 sq. ft.                            $50 per sq. ft.
Swimming pools–each additional over 801 sq.                 $0.25 per sq.
ft.                                                            ft.
 
   (D)   Certificate of occupancy fees.
 
Certificate of Occupancy Fees for New Commercial, M-1, and AG-B Construction
and Remodeling
Type of Structure Fees
Buildings         $100 each
Other structures  $60 each
 
   (E)   Zoning fees.
 
Zoning Fees for New Commercial, M-1, and AG-B
Type of Structure or Action   Type of Construction Fees
Change of permitted use                            $75 each
Primary structure             New construction     $200 each
Other buildings and additions                      $100 each
Signs                                              $60 each
 
   (F)   Other construction permit fees.
Other Commercial, M-1, and AG-B Zoning District Construction Permit Fees
Type of Permit Comments Fees
Other Commercial, M-1, and AG-B Zoning District Construction Permit Fees
Type of Permit                                 Comments                 Fees
Fence permit                                   Includes zoning fee      $60 each
                                                                        $300
                                                                        administrative,
Foundation-only permit                         Details in division (K)  plus $.50 per
                                               of this section          sq. ft. of area
                                                                        covered by the
                                                                        foundation
Replacement permit cards                                               $30 each
Maintenance/repair, re-roofing, downspout,     Plus inspection(s), as   $50 base fee
fascia/gutter                                  needed
Maintenance/repair, replace siding/exterior    Plus inspection(s), as   $50 base fee
change                                         needed
Maintenance/repair, HVAC/ plumbing/hot water   Plus inspection(s), as   $50 base fee
tank                                           needed
Maintenance/repair, window replacement         Plus inspection(s), as   $50 base fee
                                               needed
Sign permit                                    Permanent, any type      $125 each, plus
                                                                        engineering fee
Sign permit                                    Portable and mobile,     $40 each use
                                               registration fee
Sign permit                                    Engineering fees if      Paid by permit
                                               required                 holder
                                               Gas, electric, sewer,    $100 each
Utility service change or upgrade–permit and septic, private well, or service change
inspection                                     community water system   plus inspection
                                                                        fees
                                               See Ordinance 75A (§§
                                               154.01–
                                               154.06;
Site development                               154.20–                $150
                                               154.28;
                                               154.40–
                                               154.42)
 
   (G)   Inspection fees.
Inspection Fees, Commercial, M-1, and AG-B Zoning District
Type of Inspection Item Item Details Fees
Inspection Fees, Commercial, M-1, and AG-B Zoning District
Type of Inspection  Item                Item Details        Fees
Acoustic ceiling    5,000 sq. ft. area                     $85 each structure
                    or less
Acoustic ceiling    Each additional                        $35 each additional
                    1,000 sq. ft.
                    At anytime a permit
                    needs to be
Amended permit fee  amended, plus costs                    $100
                    (i.e., inspections,
                    square footage, and
                    the like)
Concrete floors or  Base and vapor      5,000 sq. ft. area  $85 each structure
walls, pre-pour     barrier, when used  or less
Concrete floors or  Base and vapor      Each additional
walls, pre-pour     barrier, when used  1,000 sq. ft. or    $35 each additional
                                        fraction thereof
Concrete floors or  Concealed utilities 5,000 sq. ft. area  $85 each structure
walls, pre-pour                         or less
Concrete floors or                      Each additional
walls, pre-pour     Concealed utilities 1,000 sq. ft. or    $35 each additional
                                        fraction thereof
Electrical service, 100 amp or less                        $165 each service
new or change
Electrical service, Each additional 100                    $75
new or change       amp
                    Addition of new
Electrical service, branch circuits     100 amp or less     $125 each service
new or change       with service change
                    or remodeling only
                    Addition of new
Electrical service, branch circuits     Each additional 100 $75
new or change       with service change amp
                    or remodeling only
Erosion control     Property check                         $85
Final                                  Use categories as   See rough-in fees
                                        for rough-in below  below
Footings            5,000 sq. ft. in                       $85 each structure
                    area or less
                    Each additional
Footings            1,000 sq. ft. or                       $35
                    fraction thereof
Footings–pre-pour 5,000 sq. ft. in                       $85 each structure
                    area or less
                                        Each additional
Footings–pre-pour                    1,000 sq. ft. or    $35
                                        fraction thereof
Foundation          5,000 sq. ft. in                       $85 each structure
                    area or less
                    Each additional
Foundation          1,000 sq. ft. or                       $35
                    fraction thereof
                    Each additional
Footings–pre-pour 1,000 sq. ft. or                       $35
                    fraction thereof
Ice-shield                                                $85 each
inspection
Insulation          5,000 sq. ft. in                       $85 each structure
                    area or less
Insulation          Each additional                        $35 each additional
                    1,000 sq. ft.
Masonry                                                   $85 each structure
Parking lots        Subgrade            One hour minimum    $85 per hour
Parking lots        Pre-pavement        One hour minimum    $85 per hour
                    Any of: footings,
                    foundation,
                    concrete floors or
Re-inspections      walls (pre-pour),                      $80 per trade
                    electrical service
                    (new or change),
                    rough-in, or final
Retention or        Up to one acre-ft.
detention ponds,    capacity                               $175
tanks, reservoirs
Retention or        Each additional
detention ponds,    acre-ft. capacity                      $65
tanks, reservoirs
                                        Total of plumbing,
Rough-in            Total fee           HVAC, electrical,   $85 minimum per
                                        and framing fees    trade
                                        below
Rough-in            Plumbing            10 fixtures total   $85 each structure
                                        or less
Rough-in            Plumbing            Each additional     $20
                                        fixture
Rough-in            Plumbing–sprinklerEach head           $10
                                        5,000 sq. ft. or
Rough-in            HVAC                less of conditioned $85 each structure
                                        space
                                        Each additional
Rough-in            HVAC                1,000 sq. ft. or    $35
                                        fraction thereof
Rough-in            Electrical          5,000 sq. ft. floor $85 each structure
                                        space or less
                                        Each additional
Rough-in            Electrical          1,000 sq. ft. or    $35
                                        fraction thereof
Rough-in            Framing             5,000 sq. ft. floor $85 each structure
                                        space or less
                                        Each additional
Rough-in            Framing             1,000 sq. ft. or    $35
                                        fraction thereof
Sanitary and storm  Manholes and pipes  One hour minimum    $85 per hour
sewers, water lines
Sanitary and storm  Taps                                   $75 each
sewers, water lines
Streets and roads   Subgrade            Each 1,000 linear   $85
                                        ft.
Streets and roads   Pre-pavement        Each 1,000 linear   $85
                                        ft.
Streets and roads   Road shoulder       Each 1,000 linear   $60 each ln. ft.
                    finished grade      ft.
Temporary occupany  To convert to final                    $200
fee                 occupancy
Others as required  Fire Code, when     As set by Fire      As given in §
                    required            Prevention Bureau   150.25
                    Miscellaneous (not                      As determined by
Others as required  listed above), when                    Town Engineer and/
                    required                                or Building
                                                            Administrator
Violations                                                $200 each violation
inspection
 
   (H)   Relocated structure or building permit; commercial, M-1, and AG-B. The
same fees apply as are applied above to new construction.
   (I)   Demolition fees.
 
Demolition Fees; Commercial, M-1, and AG-B
Type of Structure            Fees
All primary use buildings    $100
All accessory buildings      $55 each structure
Engineering fees if required Paid by permit holder
Required inspections         Use schedule above
 
   (J)   Minimum fees, commercial, M-1, and AG-B. No permit fee for a
construction or remodeling project shall be less than $100. The zoning fee, if
required, the cost of any required inspection fees as listed above, and the
cost of a certificate of occupancy, if required, are additional costs. The
minimum permit fee does not apply to a fence-only permit or demolition permits.
   (K)   Foundation-only permit; optional.
      (1)   A permit for a structure foundation may be issued prior to the
application for and approval of permits required under divisions (B) and (C)
above. The Town Building Administrator and the Town Engineer shall set
guidelines for information required to be submitted.
      (2)   The applicant will complete a waiver approved by the Plan
Commission Attorney as part of the requirements for the permit.
      (3)   The scope of this permit is limited to footings, foundation walls
of which at least 75% will be below grade, and concrete floors at or below
grade. Plumbing, electrical, and HVAC work is limited to those specific items
needed prior to backfilling and/or pouring concrete floors.
      (4)   This permit expires in 30 days from issuance unless a complete
application for a building permit as required in division (B) or (C) above is
filed with the Building Administrator prior to expiration.
      (5)   The fees shall be as given above in division (F) of this section.
All necessary inspection fees will be charged per division (G) above. A credit
will be issued for the portion of the valid foundation-only permit fee based on
square footage to be used only for the subsequent building permit. The credit
is limited to the amount of the building permit fee based on square footage
under division (B) or (C) above, whichever is applicable, for the same
structure as the foundation-only permit. No credit will be issued for an
expired foundation-only permit.
      (6)   If this permit expires, no fees will be credited or refunded, and
the applicant must re-apply for a foundation-only permit or make application
for a full permit under division (B) or (C) above.
   (L)   Street, alley, sidewalk, public way opening permit fees.
 
Type of Permit             Comments                 Fees
Street opening             Any cut or opening made. $250
Alley opening              Any cut or opening made. $250
Sidewalk opening           Any cut or opening made. $250
Rights-of-way turf opening Any cut or opening made. $125
 
 
Type of Inspection Comments                           Fees
Street and alley   Any cut or opening made.           Direct cost reimbursement
Sidewalk           Any cut or opening made.           Direct cost reimbursement
Public way         Any cut or opening made, including Direct cost reimbursement
                   turfed areas.
 
      (1)   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single
project, and shall be issued by the executive or other duly designated town
representative. Application shall be made on a form proscribed by the Town
Council providing the exact location of the proposed opening, the kind or type
of paving, turf or fill, the area and depth to be excavated, and such other
facts and information as may be required. The town and/or the Town Engineer
reserve the right to impose reasonable conditions upon the applicant, as well
as the right to deny the application in order to protect town improvements or
upon a finding that a less intrusive method exists.
      (2)   No permit shall be issued until or unless the applicant tenders and
pays the fee required in conformance with the schedule contained hereinafter.
The permit fee is in an amount reasonably calculated to cover at least a
portion of the cost of restoration and maintenance of the opening, as well as
all other related administrative expenses thereto.
      (3)   All such fees collected for the purposes stated herein shall be
deposited in the town’s General Fund for use consistent with the requirements
of this chapter, as amended hereafter from time to time.
      (4)   The opening, restoration and maintenance of a pavement or other
surface shall be performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the
Town Engineer, or other duly designated town representative, and in accordance
with rules, regulations, and specifications approved by the Town Council.
      (5)   In the event of the failure and/or refusal of the permittee to
satisfactorily fill the excavation, restore the surface and remove all excess
materials in accordance with the terms of the permit, and within the time
specified in the permit, or where such time period is not specified in the
permit within a reasonable time, the town may proceed to make such fill and
restoration. In the event the amount of the costs incurred by the town exceed
the amount of the restoration services performed by it, the town shall be
entitled and permitted to collect any excess amount due and owing from the
permittee, including attorney’s fees, court costs, and similar related expenses
of collection.
(Ord. 41, passed 2-18-1998; Am. Ord. 41A, passed 3-17-1999; Am. Ord. 41B,
passed 3-18-2004; Am. Ord. 41C, passed 4-23-2004; Am. Ord. 41D, passed 2-21-
2006; Am. Ord. 41F, passed 12-16-2008; Am. Ord. 41H, passed 10-20-2009; Am.
Ord. 210, passed 9-11-2012; Am. Ord. 41-J, passed 9-24-2013; Am. Ord. 41-K,
passed 10-8-2019; Am. Ord. 41-L, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 150.25 FIRE PREVENTION BUREAU; INSPECTION FEES.
   The following fees are for inspections of new and existing structures which
require inspections as determined by the town’s Fire Prevention Bureau in
conjunction with the state Fire Prevention Code.
Fire Prevention Bureau Inspection Fees
Type of Structure Type of Inspection Occupancy Area Fees
Fire Prevention Bureau Inspection Fees
Type of Structure   Type of Inspection  Occupancy Area      Fees
Existing structures Annual inspection   Up to 1,500 sq. ft. $7.50
Existing structures Annual inspection   Each additional 100 $0.25
                                        sq. ft.
Existing structures Annual inspection                      $25 maximum per
                                                            occupancy per visit
                    Follow-up
                    inspection, when
Existing structures annual inspection   Up to 1,500 sq. ft. $7.50
                    finds violations
                    needing correction
                    and re-inspection
                    Follow-up
                    inspection, when
Existing structures annual inspection   Each additional 100 $0.25
                    finds violations    sq. ft.
                    needing correction
                    and re-inspection
                    Follow-up
                    inspection, when
Existing structures annual inspection                      $25 maximum per
                    finds violations                        occupancy per visit
                    needing correction
                    and re-inspection
New construction    Initial inspection  Up to 1,500 sq. ft. $15
New construction    Initial inspection  Each additional 100 $0.50
                                        sq. ft.
New construction    Initial inspection                     $50 maximum per
                                                            occupancy per visit
                    Follow-up
                    inspections, as
New construction    needed, until       Up to 1,500 sq. ft. $7.50
                    certificate of
                    occupancy is issued
                    Follow-up
                    inspections, as     Each additional 100
New construction    needed, until       sq. ft.             $.25
                    certificate of
                    occupancy is issued
                    Follow-up
                    inspections, as                         $25 maximum per
New construction    needed, until                          occupancy per visit
                    certificate of
                    occupancy is issued
 
(Addendum to Ord. 41A, passed 3-18-1999)
§ 150.26 PLAN COMMISSION FEES.
   (A)   Zoning Map amendment application fees. A Zoning Map amendment
application requires a Plan Commission public hearing and Town Council
consideration.
 
Zoning Map Amendment Application Fees
Item                                             Fees
Costs for legal notice publications and mailings Paid by petitioner
Design, engineering, and recording fees          Paid by petitioner
Parcel of 1 acre or less                         $350 each parcel
Each additional acre or fraction thereof         $3.50 each additional
 
   (B)   Subdivision permit application fees for districts AG, R-1, R-2, R-3,
and R-4. A subdivision permit application requires a Plan Commission public
hearing.
Subdivision Permit Application Fees for Districts AG, R-1, R-2, R-3, and R-4
Subdivision Type Item Details Fees
Subdivision Permit Application Fees for Districts AG, R-1, R-2, R-3, and R-4
Subdivision Type Item                 Details              Fees
                 Additional primary                        Same as primary/
                 or secondary plat,                        Secondary plat fees
                 or TAC meeting when                       below
                 needed
                 Costs for legal
                 notice publications                       Paid by petitioner
                 and mailings
                 Design, engineering,                      Paid by petitioner
                 and recording fees
                 Waiver from
                 subdivision design                        $250 each occurrence
                 standards
                 Primary plat;                             $320 base fee;
                 includes one TAC     1 to 5 housing units 1 housing unit
                 meeting
                 Primary plat;                             $32.50 each
                 includes one TAC     1 to 5 housing units additional unit
                 meeting
                 Primary plat;        6 to 10 housing      $540 base fee;
                 includes one TAC     units                6 housing units
                 meeting
                 Primary plat;        6 to 10 housing      $22.50 each
                 includes one TAC     units                additional unit
                 meeting
                 Primary plat;        11 to 50 housing     $675 base fee;
                 includes one TAC     units                11 housing units
                 meeting
                 Primary plat;        11 to 50 housing     $12.50 each
                 includes one TAC     units                additional unit
                 meeting
                 Primary plat;        51 or more housing   $1,200 base fee;
                 includes one TAC     units                51 housing units
                 meeting
                 Primary plat;        51 or more housing   $10.00 each
                 includes one TAC     units                additional unit
                 meeting
                 Secondary plat;                           $210 base fee;
                 includes one TAC     1 to 5 housing units 1 housing unit
                 meeting
                 Secondary plat;                           $32.50 each
                 includes one TAC     1 to 5 housing units additional unit
                 meeting
                 Secondary plat;      6 to 10 housing      $320 base fee;
                 includes one TAC     units                6 housing units
                 meeting
                 Secondary plat;      6 to 10 housing      $22.50 each
                 includes one TAC     units                additional unit
                 meeting
                 Secondary plat;      11 to 50 housing     $425 base fee;
                 includes one TAC     units                11 housing units
                 meeting
                 Secondary plat;      11 to 50 housing     $12.50 each
                 includes one TAC     units                additional unit
                 meeting
                 Secondary plat;      51 or more housing   $740 base fee;
                 includes one TAC     units                51 housing units
                 meeting
                 Secondary plat;      51 or more housing   $10 each additional
                 includes one TAC     units                unit
                 meeting
 
   Any additional TAC or primary/secondary plat meetings in excess of one shall
be charged to developer at the above rates for each meeting. In the event the
engineering review fee (application permit/fee) does not cover the town’s
actual cost of review, the town shall charge developer additional fees for this
service based upon the actual costs incurred.
   (C)   Subdivision permit application fees for AG-B districts. A subdivision
permit application requires a Plan Commission public hearing.
Subdivision Permit Application Fees for AG-B Districts; All Subdivision
Types
Item Parcel Size Details Fees
Subdivision Permit Application Fees for AG-B Districts; All Subdivision Types
Item                   Parcel Size      Details           Fees
Additional primary/                                       Same as primary/
secondary plat or TAC                   When needed       secondary plat fees
meeting                                                   below
Costs for legal notice
publications and                                          Paid by petitioner
mailings
Design, engineering,                                      Paid by petitioner
and recording fees
Primary plat; includes Up to 25 acres   Up to 5 acres     $525 base fee
one TAC meeting
Primary plat; includes                  Each additional 5
one TAC meeting        Up to 25 acres   acres or fraction $100 each additional
                                        thereof
Primary plat; includes 25 or more acres 30 acres or less  $1,050 base fee
one TAC meeting
Primary plat; includes                  Each additional 5
one TAC meeting        25 or more acres acres or fraction $75 each additional
                                        thereof
Secondary plat;
includes one TAC       Up to 25 acres   Up to 5 acres     $400 base fee
meeting
Secondary plat;                         Each additional 5
includes one TAC       Up to 25 acres   acres             $100 each additional
meeting
Secondary plat;
includes one TAC       25 or more acres 30 acres or less  $775 base fee
meeting
Secondary plat;                         Each additional 5
includes one TAC       25 or more acres acres or fraction $75 each additional
meeting                                 thereof
Waiver from
subdivision design                                        $650 each occurrence
standards
 
   Any additional TAC or primary/secondary plat meetings in excess of one shall
be charged to developer at the above rates for each meeting. In the event the
engineering review fee (application permit/fee) does not cover the town’s
actual cost of review, the town shall charge developer additional fees for this
service based upon the actual costs incurred.
   (D)   Subdivision permit application fees for districts MF, C-1, C-2, C-3,
PDC, and M-1. A subdivision permit application requires a Plan Commission
public hearing.
Subdivision Permit Application Fees for Districts MF, C-1, C-2, C-3, PDC,
and M
Item Parcel Size Details Fees
Subdivision Permit Application Fees for Districts MF, C-1, C-2, C-3, PDC, and M
Item                  Parcel Size     Details              Fees
Additional primary/                                        Same as primary/
secondary plat or TAC                 When needed          secondary plat fees
meeting                                                    below
Costs for legal
notice publication                                         Paid by petitioner
and mailings
Design, engineering,                                       Paid by petitioner
and recording fees
Primary plat;
includes one TAC      Up to 5 acres   Up to 1 acre         $525
meeting
Primary plat;                         Each additional acre
includes one TAC      Up to 5 acres   or fraction thereof  $100
meeting
Primary plat;
includes one TAC      5 or more acres 6 acres or less      $1,000 base fee
meeting
Primary plat;                         Each additional acre
includes one TAC      5 or more acres or fraction thereof  $75
meeting
Secondary plat;
includes one TAC      Up to 5 acres   Up to 1 acre         $400 base fee
meeting
Secondary plat;                       Each additional acre
includes one TAC      Up to 5 acres   or fraction thereof  $100
meeting
Secondary plat;
includes one TAC      5 or more acres 6 acres or less      $775 base fee
meeting
Secondary plat;                       Each additional acre
includes one TAC      5 or more acres or fraction thereof  $75
meeting
Waiver from
subdivision design                                         $650 each occurrence
standards
 
   Any additional TAC or primary/secondary plat meetings in excess of one shall
be charged to developer at the above rates for each meeting. In the event the
engineering review fee (application permit/fee) does not cover the town’s
actual cost of review, the town shall charge developer additional fees for this
service based upon the actual costs incurred.
   (E)   Subdivision permit application fees for districts PDR and PDM. A
subdivision permit application requires a Plan Commission public hearing. Fees
are to follow those districts most similar in divisions (B) and (D) above.
   (F)   Other Plan Commission fees.
Other Plan Commission Fees
Item Comments Fees
Other Plan Commission Fees
Item            Comments                                       Fees
Inspection of   Appropriate inspections described in § 150.24 As in § 150.24
improvements    (G)                                            (G)
Plat vacation   Requires a Plan Commission public hearing      $325 flat fee,
application                                                    per plat
Plat vacation   Costs for legal notice publications and        Paid by
application     mailings                                       petitioner
Special meeting                                                $850 each
of the Plan                                                    request
Commission
Special meeting Costs for legal notice publications and        Paid by
of the Plan     mailings                                       petitioner
Commission
Violations                                                     $150 each
inspection                                                     violation
Commercial                                                     $900 plus $500
development                                                    per acre or
review/approval                                                portion thereof*
                                                               Actual costs
Miscellaneous                                                  incurred by
                                                               town**
* Any additional Plan Commission meeting in excess of one shall be charged to
developer at above rate for each meeting. In the event the engineering review
fee (application permit/fee) does not cover the town’s actual cost of review,
the town shall charge developer additional fees for this service based upon the
actual costs incurred.
** Other reviews and inspections including, but not limited to: additional
reviews, the review of off-site improvements, driveway cut permits, excavation
and fill permit applications, culvert permit applications, building expansions,
on-site inspections, review of changes by the developer.
 
   (G)   Payment required. No application allowed by this §
150.26 shall be accepted for processing by the town until all outstanding fees,
fines, engineering fees, or any other costs due the town of from the applicant
are paid in full by the applicant.
(Ord. 41, passed 2-18-1998; Am. Ord. 41C, passed 4-23-2004; Am. Ord. 41E,
passed 3-21-2006; Am. Ord. 41H, passed 10-20-2009; Am. Ord. 41I, passed 2-15-
2010)
§ 150.27 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS FEES.
   The following are fees in consideration of requested actions by the Board of
Zoning Appeals (BZA).
Board of Zoning Appeals Fees
Requested Action Comments Item Details Fees
Board of Zoning Appeals Fees
Requested Action   Comments            Item Details         Fees
Appeal of          Requires BZA public                      $200 each decision
administrative     hearing             Filing fee           appealed
decision
Appeal of                              Cost of legal notice
administrative                         publications and     Paid by petitioner
decision                               mailings
                   Requires BZA public Filing fee; parcel
Special exception  hearing and Town    of 1 acre or less    $300 each parcel
                   Council action
                   Requires BZA public Filing fee; each
Special exception  hearing and Town    additional acre or   $5 each additional
                   Council action      fraction thereof
                                       Costs of legal
Special exception                      notice publications  Paid by petitioner
                                       and mailings
Special exception                      Design, engineering, Paid by petitioner
                                       and recording fees
Special meeting of                                          $575 each request
the BZA
Special meeting of                     Costs of legal
the BZA                                notice publications  Paid by petitioner
                                       and mailings
                   Requires BZA public Filing fee; parcel
Special use        hearing and Town    of 1 acre or less    $550 each parcel
                   Council action
                   Requires BZA public Filing fee; each
Special use        hearing and Town    additional acre or   $10 each additional
                   Council action      fraction thereof
                                       Costs of legal
Special use                            notice publications  Paid by petitioner
                                       and mailings
Special use                            Design, engineering, Paid by petitioner
                                       and recording fees
Variance from      Requires BZA public Filing fee           $225 each variance
design standards   hearing
Variance from                          Costs of legal
design standards                       notice publications  Paid by petitioner
                                       and mailings
Variance from                          Design, engineering, Paid by petitioner
design standards                       and recording fees
Violations                                                  $150 each violation
inspections
 
(Ord. 41, passed 2-18-1998; Am. Ord. 41C, passed 4-23-2004; Am. Ord. 41I,
passed 2-15-2010)
§ 150.28 WORK COMMENCED PRIOR TO PERMIT; FEES.
   (A)   A violations inspection fee shall be paid prior to any permit
application being accepted under this section.
   (B)   Permit fees shall be double those listed above in the applicable
section for any building, structure, fence, or sign under construction or
completed prior to issuance of a valid permit.
   (C)   Fees for any required inspection not completed due to lack of a valid
permit will be double those listed above in the appropriate section. At the
inspector’s discretion, certain work may need to be removed or altered to make
the necessary inspection.
   (D)   Foundation-only permits will not be considered for any work started or
completed without a valid permit.
   (E)   Fees paid for permits under this section do not prevent the town from
assessing other fines or penalties as may be applicable under other ordinances
or provisions of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 41, passed 2-18-1998)
Penalty, see § 10.99
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 150.35 COMPLETE STREETS PROGRAM AND POLICY ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The complete streets program and policy, a copy of which is attached
to Ord. 296 as Exhibit A, is hereby established and adopted by reference by the
town as if fully set forth herein. A copy of the program and policy is
available for public inspection during normal business hours in the office of
the Town Clerk. The program and policy established hereby, and as the same may
be amended hereafter from time to time, is declared to be the policy and
program for the town on the matters set forth therein.
   (B)   The town administrative staff and professional consultants are hereby
directed to utilize the complete streets program and policy for planning and
implementation of public streets, sidewalks and public ways in the town
hereafter. Further, the administrative staff and professional consultants are
directed to disseminate and distribute the program and policy established
herein, to all individuals or entities seeking to improve and develop real
property within the municipal corporate boundaries of the town.
(Ord. 296, passed 2-26-2019)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   State building and fire safety codes adopted by reference
Building, Structure, and Location Improvement Code
   
151.15   Title
   
151.16   Purpose
   
151.17   Authority
   
151.18   Application
   
151.19   State regulations adopted by reference
   
151.20   Standards
Building Permits
   
151.30   Permit required
   
151.31   Compliance with other ordinances
   
151.32   Permit application
   
151.33   Fees
   
151.34   Application review
Building Code; Administration and Enforcement
   
151.45   Inspections
   
151.46   Right of entry
   
151.47   Stop order
   
151.48   Certificate of occupancy; compliance required
   
151.49   Violations
   
151.50   Right of appeal
   
151.51   Remedies
   
151.52   Permit revocation
Well Drilling
   
151.65   State regulations adopted by reference
   
151.66   Enforcement
   
151.67   Records required
   
151.68   Inspection; correction
   
151.69   Clarification; refer to state statutes
Cross-reference:
   Building and construction contractors, see
Ch. 111
   Construction materials; minimum standards, see §
155.096
   Drainage; design standards, see §§
155.110 through
155.116
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate buildings, structures, and other property, see I.C.
22-13-2
   State requirement; compliance with building safety and fire prevention
codes, see I.C. 36-7-2-9
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 STATE BUILDING AND FIRE SAFETY CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   All rules, regulations, and codes of the Office of State Building
Commissioner, as well as any late amendments and additions thereto, as
published in the I.A.C., will govern the construction and alteration of all
buildings and structures within the corporate limits of the town, including,
but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   General Administrative Rules, effective 08-16-87;
      (2)   State Building Code (1991 Uniform Building Code with state
amendments), effective 01-03-93;
      (3)   State Building Code, Chapter 31: Accessibility/Fair Housing Rule
(1992 ANSI A 117.1 Standard with state amendments), effective 04-12-95;
      (4)   State Electrical Code (1993 National Electrical Code with state
amendments), effective 04-08-94;
      (5)   State Fire Prevention Code (1988 Uniform Fire Code with state
amendments), effective 12-15-90;
      (6)   State Mechanical Code (1991 Uniform Mechanical Code with state
amendments), effective 11-01-92;
      (7)   State Plumbing Code (1990 BOCA National Plumbing Code with state
amendments), effective 01-02-91;
      (8)   State Swimming Pool Code, effective 09-13-89;
      (9)   State Energy Conservation Code (1992 CABO Model Energy Code with
state amendments), effective 12-31-92; and
      (10)   State One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code (1989 CABO One- and Two-
Family Dwelling Code with state amendments), effective 11-01-90.
   (B)   Copies of the above rules, regulations, and codes will be kept on file
at the Town Office for public inspection during the town’s usual business
hours.
(Ord. 19, passed 2-19-1997; Am. Ord. 132, passed 6-21-2005; Am. Ord. 133,
passed 6-21-2005)
BUILDING, STRUCTURE, AND LOCATION IMPROVEMENT CODE
§ 151.15 TITLE.
   This chapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall be
known as the Building, Structure, and Location Improvement Code of the town,
may be cited thus, and will be referred to herein as this chapter.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-2-1997)
§ 151.16 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards for the
protection of life, health, environment, public safety, and general welfare,
and for the conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings,
structures, and other location improvements.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-2-1997)
§ 151.17 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Administrator of the town, hereinafter referred to as the
Administrator, is hereby authorized and directed to administer and enforce all
of the provisions of this chapter. Whenever in this chapter it is provided that
anything must be done to the approval of, or subject to the direction of, the
Administrator, or any other officer of the town, this shall be construed to
give that officer only the discretion of determining whether this chapter has
been complied with; and no provision shall be construed as giving any officer
discretionary powers as to what this chapter shall be, in an arbitrary or
discriminatory manner. Any variance from the adopted building rules is subject
to approval under I.C. 22-13-2-7(b).
(Ord. 26, passed 4-2-1997)
§ 151.18 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this chapter apply to the construction, alteration,
repair, use, occupancy, and addition to all buildings, structures, and other
location improvements other than industrialized building systems or mobile
structures certified under I.C. 22-15-4, in the town.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-2-1997)
§ 151.19 STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the Indiana Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following Articles
of Title 675 of the Indiana Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by
reference in this code and shall include any later amendments to those rules:

      (1)   Article 13-–-- Building Codes:

         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards.

         (b)   State Building Code.

      (2)   Article 14--–Indiana Residential Code.

      (3)   Article 16----Indiana Plumbing Code.

      (4)   Article 17----Indiana Electrical Code.

      (5)   Article 18----Indiana Mechanical Code.

      (6)   Article 19----Indiana Energy Conservation Code.

      (7)   Article 20----Indiana Swimming Pool Code.

      (8)   Article 22----Indiana Fire Code.

      (9)   Article 24----Migrant Day Care Nursery Fire Safety Code.

      (10)   Article 25----Indiana Fuel Gas Code.

   (B)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and building laws
adopted in this section. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), a variance granted by
the Building Commissioner is not effective until it has been approved by the
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-2-1997; Am. Ord. 117, passed 7-15-2004)
§ 151.20 STANDARDS.
   (A)   All work on the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings,
structures, and other location improvements shall be performed in a good and
workmanlike manner according to accepted standards and practices in the trade,
and said improvements shall be performed by a contractor or tradesman who has
passed a test as proof of licensure, unless no test exists for their trade and
be registered with the town pursuant to §§
111.05 through
111.22, as amended from time to time, in the trade area required to make the
location (property) improvement(s) .
   (B)   All work on the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings,
structures, and other location improvements shall be performed during the
following times:
      (1)   Monday—Friday, 7:00 a.m.—7:00 p.m. (March—October);
      (2)   Monday—Friday, 7:00 a.m.—5:00 p.m. (November—February);
      (3)   Saturday, 9:00 a.m.—3:00 p.m.;
      (4)   No work on Sundays/holidays.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-2-1997; Am. Ord. 210, passed 9-11-2012; Am. Ord. 217, passed
4-23-2013)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 151.30 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A permit shall be obtained before beginning construction, alteration,
improvement, or repair of any building, structure, or other location
improvement, including but not limited to changes or improvements to drainage
and stormwater management within the town. Location improvements, including but
not limited to fences, which consist primarily of minor repairs or alterations,
may be exempt from this section provided no inspections are required to
determine compliance with this chapter, after review by the Administrator and/
or the Town Engineer.
   (B)   Forms shall be furnished by the Administrator, and all fees required
by any applicable town ordinance shall be paid to the town.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-2-1997)
§ 151.31 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER ORDINANCES.
   All work done under any permit shall be in full compliance with all other
ordinances and codes of the town, the county, and the state pertaining thereto,
and in addition to the fees for permits, there shall be paid the fees
prescribed in any applicable ordinances.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-2-1997)
§ 151.32 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   No building, structure, or other location improvement permit shall be issued
by the Administrator unless the application for a permit is accompanied by:
   (A)   A plat or sketch of the proposed site, including a legal description,
depiction of all lot corners, and location of all existing and proposed
improvements;
   (B)   Plans and specifications, showing the work to be done;
   (C)   A drainage plan showing the location of any legal drains, and of any
existing or proposed subterranean or surface drainage systems for stormwater
storage, detention, retention, or discharge. The plan must also indicate the
direction of flow of all existing or proposed overland storm flow;
   (D)   Existing and proposed elevations, which shall be referenced to M.S.L.
datum, at:
      (1)   All lot corners;
      (2)   All exterior grades and finished floors of any buildings;
      (3)   Any driveways;
      (4)   Any driveway culverts or bridges;
      (5)   Any public streets, curbs, and storm drains on or adjoining the
site;
      (6)   Any ponds, lakes, or streams on or adjoining the site;
      (7)   Any drainage structures shown in division (C) above; and
      (8)   Of any proposed footings.
   (E)   Proof of bonding or other surety approved by the town, for any
improvements to be made on public property or within any public right-of-way,
if deemed appropriate by the Administrator, Town Engineer, or the town;
   (F)   A copy of the design release, issued by the State Building
Commissioner and State Fire Marshal pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3-1, shall be
provided for construction covered by the design release;
   (G)   Exceptions to divisions (C) and (D) above, or any portions thereof,
may be granted at the discretion of the Administrator and/or the Town Engineer,
if the type of location improvement permit does not significantly affect
stormwater drainage and flow at or near the project site; and
   (H)   Any other documents, as required by §
156.372, or by the Administrator or the Town Engineer.
   (I)   A non-refundable, administrative application fee to cover the cost of
processing the building permit application. The fee shall be in the amount of:
      (1)   $50 per permit (residential); or
      (2)   $400 per permit (commercial).
(Ord. 26, passed 4-2-1997; Am. Ord. 210, passed 9-11-2012; Am. Ord. 234, passed
5-13-2014; Am. Ord. 41-L, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 151.33 FEES.
   Fees shall be paid to the town in accordance with all applicable fee
schedules adopted by town ordinance.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-2-1997)
§ 151.34 APPLICATION REVIEW.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Administrator shall:
   (A)   Review all building permit applications to determine full compliance
with this chapter;
   (B)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the
floodplain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed
repair:
      (1)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
      (2)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (D)   Review building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements within the floodplain area having special flood
hazards to assure that the proposed construction (including prefabricated and
mobile homes):
      (1)   Is protected against flood damage;
      (2)   Is designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure, flood damage; and
      (3)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (E)   Review all town records to determine whether the applicant has any
outstanding fees, fines, or other costs due the town. All such outstanding
fees, fines, or other costs due the town shall be paid in full prior to the
issuance of any new permit under this chapter.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-2-1997; Am. Ord. 41-G, passed 8-18-2009)
BUILDING CODE; ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.45 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   After the issuance of any building permit, the Administrator shall
make, or cause to be made, inspections of the work being done as are necessary
to insure full compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the terms of
the permit. Reinspections are required for any work found to be not in
compliance with this chapter, incomplete, or not ready for inspection.
Reinspections are subject to assessment of reinspection fees as prescribed by
any fee schedule adopted by town ordinance.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department having jurisdiction in the specific
area of the town affected, or his or her designated representative, shall
assist the Administrator in the inspection of fire suppression, detection, and
alarm systems and shall provide reports of this inspection to the
Administrator. The Fire Department may also designate a representative to
participate in review of permit applications which have or should have fire
suppression, detection, or alarm systems.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-2-1997)
§ 151.46 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Administrator, or any of his or
her duly authorized representatives, may enter at reasonable times any
building, structure, or premises in the town to perform any duty imposed on him
or her by this chapter.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-2-1997)
§ 151.47 STOP ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
the Administrator may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on any
persons engaged in the doing or causing that work to be done, and those persons
shall forthwith stop that work until authorized by the Administrator to proceed
with the work.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-2-1997)
§ 151.48 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure constructed
after adoption of this chapter shall be issued unless that building or
structure was constructed in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to occupy any thus described building or
structure unless a full, partial, or temporary certificate of occupancy has
been issued by the Administrator.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-2-1997)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.49 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, whether owner,
lessee, sub-lessee, or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any
building, structure, or other location improvement, including but not limited
to changes or improvements to drainage and stormwater management systems in the
town, or to cause or permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-2-1997)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.50 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal any order of the Administrator,
first through the town and then to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission of the state, in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 22-13-2-
7 and I.C. 4-21.5-3-7.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-2-1997)
§ 151.51 REMEDIES.
   (A)   The Administrator shall in the name of the town bring actions in the
superior or circuit courts of the county for mandatory and injunctive relief in
the enforcement of, and to secure compliance with, any order or orders made by
the Administrator. Any action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be joined
with an action to recover the penalties provided for in this chapter.
   (B)   If any person, firm, or corporation shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall
fail to perform any duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the
Administrator, or shall fail, neglect, or refuse to obey any lawful order given
by the Administrator in connection with the provisions of this chapter, then
for each violation, failure, or refusal, that person, firm, or corporation
shall be fined. Each day of unlawful activity as is prohibited by the first
sentence of this division shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-2-1997)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.52 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Administrator may revoke a building permit when any of the following are
applicable:
   (A)   The application, plans or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact;
   (B)   The application, plans or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures;
   (C)   There is a failure to comply with the Building Code;
   (D)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance or
other ordinance relating to land use.
(Ord. 344, passed 2-14-2023)
WELL DRILLING
§ 151.65 STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town hereby adopts the regulations regarding water well drillers and
water well drilling and regulations of the state, as established by the state
General Assembly as I.C. 25-39-1.5-1 et seq., 312 I.A.C. 12-1-1 et seq., and,
312 I.A.C. 13-1-2 et seq., which are hereby adopted and incorporated by
reference into this code as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 72, passed 5-16-2000)
§ 151.66 ENFORCEMENT.
   The enforcement of this subchapter shall be in compliance with the
provisions of I.C. 25-39-1.5-1 et seq., 312 I.A.C. 12-1-1 et seq., and, 312
I.A.C. 13-1-2 et seq.
(Ord. 72, passed 5-16-2000)
§ 151.67 RECORDS REQUIRED.
   The occupation of a water well driller is a regulated occupation, and under
I.C. 25-39-4-1(a), each water well driller shall keep accurate records of each
well drilled in accordance with the provisions of that code section.
(Ord. 72, passed 5-16-2000)
§ 151.68 INSPECTION; CORRECTION.
   Under 312 I.A.C. 13-11-1, a conservation officer or another representative
of the department may observe the installation of a water well or pump and may
inspect equipment used to drill a well, and any work that does not comply with
this article or I.C. 25-39 must be promptly corrected by the water well
driller.
(Ord. 72, passed 5-16-2000)
§ 151.69 CLARIFICATION; REFER TO STATE STATUTES.
   If any confusion arises as a result of this subchapter, reference should be
made to the appropriate Indiana Code and/or Indiana Administrative Code section
incorporated here by reference.
(Ord. 72, passed 5-16-2000)
CHAPTER 152: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
   
152.01   State regulations adopted by reference
   
152.02   Clarification; refer to state statutes
   
152.03   Enforcement
   
152.04   Enforcement authority; hearing authority
§ 152.01 STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town hereby adopts the rules, regulations, and statutes regarding unsafe
buildings of the state, as established by the state General Assembly as I.C.
36-7-9 et seq., which are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference herein
as if the same were fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 91, passed 7-17-2001)
§ 152.02 CLARIFICATION; REFER TO STATE STATUTES.
   If any confusion arises as a result of this chapter, reference should be
made to the appropriate Indiana Code section incorporated here by reference.
(Ord. 91, passed 7-17-2001)
§ 152.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   The enforcement of this chapter will be in compliance with the provisions of
I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-28, as amended from time to time by the General
Assembly.
(Ord. 91, passed 7-17-2001)
§ 152.04 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY; HEARING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The enforcement authority is the Building Administrator and shall
administrate this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The hearing authority shall consist of one member of the town’s
Plan Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals, one member of the Town Council, and
a citizen member.
      (2)   The hearing authority’s appointments are for staggered two-year
terms, with the citizen and Plan Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals
appointment being one year for the first appointment and the Town Council
member being a two-year appointment.
(Ord. 91, passed 7-17-2001)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statement of purpose
   
153.04   Objectives
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
153.07   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
153.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
153.09   Compliance
   
153.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.11   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
153.12   Interpretation
   
153.13   Warning; disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
153.20   Designation of Administrator
   
153.21   Permit procedures
   
153.22   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.30   General standards
   
153.31   Specific standards
   
153.32   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
153.33   Critical facility
   
153.34   Standards for identified floodways
   
153.35   Standards for identified fringe
   
153.36   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes
   
153.37   Standards for flood prone areas
Variance Procedures
   
153.40   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
153.41   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
153.42   Variance procedures
   
153.43   Conditions for variances
   
153.44   Variance notification
   
153.45   Historic structures
   
153.46   Special conditions
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Indiana Legislature has in I.C. 36-7-4 and I.C. 14-28-4 granted the
power to local government units to control land use and floodplain regulations
within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the Town Council of the Town of Winfield
does hereby adopt the following floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, inadequately floodproofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands;
   (F)   Make federal flood insurance available for structures and their
contents in the town by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in floodplains;
   (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a combination of both. In A zones,
floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM. The definitions are presented
below:
      ZONE A: Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood event.
Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base flood
elevation or depths are shown.
      ZONE AE AND A1-A30: Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance
flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are shown
within these zones. (Zone AE is on new and revised maps in place of Zones A1-
A30.)
      ZONE AO: Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow flooding
(usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are between one
and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses
are shown within this zone.
      ZONE AH: Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow flooding
(usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and three feet.
Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are shown within
this zone.
      ZONE AR: Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection.
      ZONE A99: Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. Zone A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure with a floor area
400 square feet or less that is located on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the
principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a minimal initial
investment, may not be used for human habitation, and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of accessory structures are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community's
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BOUNDARY RIVER. The part of the Ohio River that forms the boundary between
Kentucky and Indiana.
   BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of a boundary river.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the Regular
Program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. Unstudied areas where flood hazards are undetermined, but flooding
is possible. Flood insurance is available in participating communities but is
not required by regulation in this zone.
   DEVELOPMENT. 
      (1)   Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate including
but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, etc.;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings, or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure's
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced before the effective date of the community's first floodplain
ordinance.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (500-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 0.2% chance
of being equaled or exceeded in any year.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD.)
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD.)
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood prone areas. This term describes federal, state, or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as floodplain regulations, floodplain ordinance, flood damage prevention
ordinance, and floodplain management requirements.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood
processing facilities. The term does not include long term storage,
manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HARDSHIP (as related to variances of this chapter). The exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The town
requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the
property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is NOT
exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,1997,
will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They include Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision
(LOMR), and Letter of Map Revision based on Fill (LOMR-F). The definitions are
presented below:
      LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the currently
effective FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in a SFHA
through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A LOMA is only
issued by FEMA.
      LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations,
and elevations.
      LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision by
letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA's determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2) The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars;
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls; if a structure has more than one enclosed area,
each shall have openings on exterior walls;
         (b)   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area; the bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (c)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP AMENDMENT. A change to an effective NFIP map that results in the
exclusion from the SFHA of an individual structure or a legally described
parcel of land that has been inadvertently included in the SFHA (i.e., no
alterations of topography have occurred since the date of the first NFIP map
that showed the structure or parcel to be within the SFHA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number followed by a letter suffix assigned
by FEMA on a flood map. The first four digits represent the map panel, and the
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter "A" is not used by FEMA, the letter "8" is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value), or
adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of mitigation
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the Federal Government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929 is a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced after the effective date of the community's first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   NON-BOUNDARY RIVER FLOODWAY. The floodway of any river or stream other than
a boundary river.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993 is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with
the letter A is subject to the one-percent annual chance flood. (See REGULATORY
FLOOD.)
   ONE-PERCENT (1%) ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with
the letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. (See REGULATORY FLOOD.)
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. Any community that voluntarily elects to
participate in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management
regulations that are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community's FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
December 31,1974, whichever is later,
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community's participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
153.07. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE FLOOD, ONE-PERCENT
(1%) ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD, and ONE HUNDRED- YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in
flood prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
town subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the town are
generally identified as such on the Lake County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas
Flood Insurance Rate Map dated January 18, 2012 as well as any future updates,
amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
with the most recent date. (These areas are shown on a FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1-
A30, AH, AR, A99, or AO).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of a
slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or
any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured
home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation,
such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of
streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement,
footings, piers, foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it
include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as
garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements or any alteration
of an historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structures continued designation as an historic structure.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88) or National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929
(NGVD) (other datum where specified) of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X zones shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X zones (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FHBM or FIRM that reflects the severity
or type of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C, AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(Zone X is used on new and revised maps in place of Zones B and C.)
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the town,
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   This chapter's protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town shall be as delineated on the
1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of Lake County,
Indiana and Incorporated Areas dated January 18, 2012 and the corresponding
Flood Insurance Rate Map dated January 18, 2012 as well as any future updates,
amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
with the most recent date.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town, delineated as an "A Zone" on
the Lake County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated
January 18, 2012 as well as any future updates, amendments, or revisions,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date,
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party disagrees with
the best available data, the party needs to replace existing data with better
data that meets current engineering standards. To be considered, this data must
be submitted to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for review and
subsequently approved.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community's known flood prone areas shall be according
to the best data available as provided by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile.
   (D)   Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No land or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this ordinance
and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.11 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation and not located within the floodway, that site shall be
considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.12 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body;
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.13 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the Town of Winfield, the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources, or the State of Indiana, for any flood damage that results
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully
thereunder.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.20 DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Council hereby appoints the Town Administrator to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein referred to as the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.21 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically the following information is required.
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   A description of the proposed development.
      (2)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams.
      (3)   A legal description of the property site.
      (4)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades.
      (5)   Elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD.
      (6)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed.
      (7)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering study is required and any watercourse changes submitted to DNR for
approval and then to FEMA as a Letter of Map Revision. (See §
153.22(B)(6) for additional information.)
   (B)   Construction stage. 
      (1)   Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an elevated structure or
structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit
to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD
elevation of the lowest floor, as built. Said certification shall be prepared
by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by the same. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the lowest floor elevation survey data submitted. The applicant
shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is
allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said
corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the
project. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification
shall be at the applicant's risk.
      (2)   Upon establishment of the floodproofed elevation of a floodproofed
structure, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator a floodproofing certificate. Certification shall be prepared by
or under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer, and
certified by same. (The Floodplain Administrator shall review the floodproofing
certification submitted.) The applicant shall correct any deficiencies detected
by such review before any further work is allowed to proceed. Failure to submit
the floodproofing certification or failure to make correction required shall be
cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
   (C)   Finished construction. Upon completion of construction, an elevation
certification (FEMA Elevation Certificate Form 81-31 or any future updates)
which depicts the as-built lowest floor elevation is required to be submitted
to the Floodplain Administrator. If the project includes a floodproofing
measure, floodproofing certification (FEMA Floodproofing Certificate Form 81-65
or any future updates) is required to be submitted by the applicant to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.22 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations.
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
153.34 and
153.36(A), and maintain a record of such authorization (either copy of actual
permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment).
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits/authorizations are to be maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit.
      (5)   Maintain and track permit records involving additions and
improvements to residences located in the floodway.
      (6)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA.
      (7)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and as-built elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter.
      (8)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community.
      (9)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished.
      (10)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance.
      (11)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
153.21.
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
153.21.
      (13)   Perform a minimum of three inspections to ensure that all
applicable ordinance and floodplain development requirements have been
satisfied. The first upon the establishment of the flood protection grade
reference mark at the development site; the second upon the establishment of
the structure's footprint/establishment of the lowest floor; and the final
inspection upon completion and submission of the required finished construction
elevation certificate. Authorized town officials shall have the right to enter
and inspect properties located in the SFHA.
      (14)   Stop work orders.
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall
state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (15)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.30 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood prone areas the following provisions are
required:
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters, and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H) On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Parking lots, driveways, and sidewalks within the SFHA shall be
constructed with permeable materials.
   (K)   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume of
space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the BFE
shall be compensated for and balanced by an equivalent volume of excavation
taken below the BFE. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the
volume of storage lost (replacement ratio of 1 to 1) due to the fill or
structure.
      (1)   The excavation shall take place in the floodplain and in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located.
      (2)   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to take
place outside of but adjacent to the floodplain provided that the excavated
volume will be below the regulatory flood elevation, will be in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located, will be
accessible to the regulatory flood water, will not be subject to ponding when
not inundated by flood water, and that it shall not be refilled.
      (3)   The excavation shall provide for true storage of floodwater but
shall not be subject to ponding when not inundated by flood water.
      (4)   The fill or structure shall not obstruct a drainage way leading to
the floodplain.
      (5)   The grading around the excavation shall be such that the excavated
area is accessible to the regulatory flood water.
      (6)   The fill or structure shall be of a material deemed stable enough
to remain firm and in place during periods of flooding and shall include
provisions to protect adjacent property owners against any increased runoff or
drainage resulting from its placement.
      (7)   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated and filled shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction or any site work; once site
work is complete, but before the actual start of construction, the applicant
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a certified survey of the
excavation and fill sites demonstrating the fill and excavation comply with
this subchapter.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.31 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §
153.30, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land);
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage;
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure;
      (7)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous addition or improvement constructed since the community's first
floodplain ordinance.
   (B)   Residential structures. New construction or substantial improvement of
any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor;
including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
below.
   (C)   Non-residential structures. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be
floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
division (D) below. Structures located in all "A Zones" may be floodproofed in
lieu of being elevated if done in accordance with the following:
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator as set forth in §
153.22(B)(12).
      (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures. 
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
      (2)   Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls. Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher;
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions;
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms;
         (f)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade;
         (g)   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction
in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device;
         (h)   Property owners shall be required to execute a flood openings/
venting affidavit acknowledging that all openings will be maintained as flood
vents, and that the elimination or alteration of the openings in any way will
violate the requirements of this division (D). Periodic inspections will be
conducted by the Floodplain Administrator to ensure compliance. The affidavit
shall be recorded in the office of the Lake County Recorder.
         (i)   Property owners shall be required to execute and record with the
structure's deed a non-conversion agreement declaring that the area below the
lowest floor (where the interior height of the enclosure exceeds six feet)
shall not be improved, finished or otherwise converted; the community will have
the right to inspect the enclosed area. The non-conversion agreement shall be
recorded in the office of the Lake County Recorder.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file.
      (2)   The fill shall extend ten feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
      (6)   Fill shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements:
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site outside a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a
flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (2)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not been
substantially damaged by a flood:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor
of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in division (D) above.
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes as stated earlier
in this section.
   (G)   Accessory structures. Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing
standards may be granted for accessory structures. Such structures must meet
the following standards:
      (1)   Shall not be used for human habitation;
      (2)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
      (3)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (4)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG;
      (6)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in division (D) above.
   (H)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. All above ground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral
movement.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.32 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.33 CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.34 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in§
153.07, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1 a permit for
construction in a floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction, or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving etc. undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of a non-substantial addition/ improvement to a residence
in a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval for the fill is required from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.)
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit or letter of authorization (when applicable) has been issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources granting approval for construction in
the floodway. Once a permit for construction in a floodway or letter of
authorization has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources,
the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit,
provided the provisions contained in §§
153.39 through
153.37 have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot be less
restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources. However, a community's more
restrictive regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed, which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, that will adversely affect the efficiency
of, or unduly restrict the capacity of the floodway. This adverse affect is
defined as an increase in the elevation of the regulatory flood of at least
0.15 of a foot as determined by comparing the regulatory flood elevation under
the project condition to that under the natural or pre-floodway condition as
proven with hydraulic analyses.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the town shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 CFR § 65.12.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.35 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local Floodplain Development Permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
153.30 through
153.37 have been met. The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of
any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.36 STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS/FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway (including letters of
authorization) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing the 1%
annual chance flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade has
been received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway (including letters of authorization) or
floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development, a
floodplain development permit may be issued provided the conditions of the
floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than the conditions
received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the provisions
contained in §§
153.30 through
153.37 have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
153.30 through
153.37 have been met.
   (C)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the
regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot and shall not increase flood
damages or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.37 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required §§
153.30 through
153.37.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 153.40 DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The town Stormwater Management Board shall hear and decide appeals and
requests for variances from requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.41 DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator
in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by
the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the Lake County Circuit
or Superior Court.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.42 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board shall consider all technical
evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other sections of
this chapter, and
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment of
transport of the floodwaters at the site;
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.43 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship;
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
153.34 or
153.36(A) may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
153.34 or
153.36(A) will require a permit from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
153.31 may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation; see §
153.34.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request; see §
153.34.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.44 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted that allows the lowest
floor of a structure to be built below the flood protection grade shall be
given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the flood
protection grade will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the flood protection grade increases risks
to life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances
issued in the community's biennial report submission to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
2016 S-10
§ 153.45 HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as an historic structure and
the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character and design of
the structure.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.46 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in this subchapter, and the
purposes of this chapter, the Stormwater Management Board may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or failure to
comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or conditions
of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All violations
shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in accordance with
the provisions of the Zoning Code for the Town of Winfield. All violations
shall be punishable by a fine not less than $200 and not more than $2,500 for
each day the violation exists.
   (A)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (B)   The Town Council shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 204-A, passed 1-26-2016)
CHAPTER 154: SOIL CONSERVATION, EROSION CONTROL,
AND FILL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Regulations adopted
   
154.02   Enforcement authority
   
154.03   Definitions
   
154.04   Clarification; refer to state statutes
   
154.05   State regulations adopted by reference
   
154.06   Violations; investigation; remedies
Development Regulations
   
154.20   Topography; minimal disturbance
   
154.21   Vegetation and watercourses; minimal disturbance
   
154.22   Land exposure
   
154.23   Accommodation of increased runoff; drainage ways
   
154.24   Waste disposal
   
154.25   Sediment control required
   
154.26   Erosion and sediment control measures
   
154.27   Development of five or more acres; I.A.C. Rule 5 controls
   
154.28   Development of one to five acres; Rule 5 as guideline or control
Site Development Permits
   
154.40   Permit requirement
   
154.41   Waiver
   
154.42   Application and issuance
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The town hereby adopts the following erosion, soil conservation, sediment,
and fill regulations for the town, and all matters related thereto.
(Ord. 75A, passed 10-17-2000)
§ 154.02 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The enforcement of this chapter can be by any town official or his or her
agent.
(Ord. 75A, passed 10-17-2000)
§ 154.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUILDING PERMIT. A permit issued by the town for the construction,
erection, or alteration of a structure or building.
      CERTIFY or CERTIFICATION. Formally attesting that the specific
inspections and tests, where required, have been performed, and that these
tests comply with the applicable requirements of this chapter.
      CLEARING. Any activity which removes vegetative ground cover.
      CUBIC YARDS. The amount of material in excavation and/or fill measured by
the method of average end areas.
      EROSION. The detachment and movement of soil, sediment, or rock fragments
by water, wind, ice, or gravity.
      EXCAVATION. Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock,
or any other similar material is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated, or bulldozed, and shall include the conditions resulting
therefrom.
      EXISTING GRADE. The vertical location of the existing ground surface
prior to excavation or filling.
      FILL. Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any other material
is deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported, or moved
by man to a new location, and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
      FINAL GRADE. The vertical location of the ground or pavement surface
after the grading work is completed in accordance with the site development
plan.
      GRADING. Excavation or fill, or any combination thereof, and shall
include the conditions resulting from any excavation or fill.
      LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any man-made change of the land surface,
including removing vegetative cover, excavating, filling, transporting, and
grading.
      NATURAL DRAINAGE. Channels formed in the existing surface topography of
the earth prior to changes made by unnatural causes.
      PARCEL. All contiguous land in one ownership.
      PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a site development permit is issued.
      REMOVAL. Cutting vegetation to the ground or stumps, complete extraction,
or killing by spraying.
      SITE DEVELOPMENT. Altering terrain and/or vegetation and constructing
improvements.
      SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit issued by the town for the construction
or alteration of ground improvements and structures for the control of erosion,
runoff, grading, filling, or other alteration.
   (B)   The Town Council reserves the right to add, modify, or change the
definitions shown here and to refer to any relevant sections of the Indiana
Code or Indiana Administrative Code where appropriate and as needed.
(Ord. 75A, passed 10-17-2000)
§ 154.04 CLARIFICATION; REFER TO STATE STATUTES.
   Any confusion which may occur as a result of this chapter should be resolved
by referencing the appropriate state statute or administrative code.
(Ord. 75A, passed 10-17-2000)
§ 154.05 STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby incorporates 327 I.A.C. 15-5 et seq. as if the
same were fully set forth herein.
   (B)   The town incorporates I.C. 14-28-4-26 as if the same were fully set
forth herein.
(Ord. 75A, passed 10-17-2000)
§ 154.06 VIOLATIONS; INVESTIGATION; REMEDIES.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter, as per I.C. 14-28-4-26, can be declared a
public nuisance if a building erected, raised, or converted, or land or
premises used, violates any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   The Town Attorney shall, upon receipt of information of a violation of
this chapter, make an investigation of the alleged violation and seek all legal
remedies where appropriate.
   (C)   The Town Council or other representative of the town can seek all
legal, equitable, and special remedies against any person or persons, firm, or
corporation, who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, by any of the
following means.
      (1)   Suit for an injunction. The Town Council or other representative of
the town can file suit in the circuit or superior court of the county to
restrain an individual or governmental unit from violating the provisions of
this chapter.
      (2)   Mandatory injunction. The Town Council or other representative of
the town may sue for a mandatory injunction directing any person or persons,
firm, corporation, or governmental unit to remove any structure or improvement
erected or constructed in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 75A, passed 10-17-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
§ 154.20 TOPOGRAPHY; MINIMAL DISTURBANCE.
   Any development should be related to the topography and soils of the site so
as to create the least potential for erosion. Any areas of steep slopes where
high cuts and fills may be required should be avoided wherever possible, and
natural contours should be followed as closely as possible.
(Ord. 75A, passed 10-17-2000)
§ 154.21 VEGETATION AND WATERCOURSES; MINIMAL DISTURBANCE.
   Natural vegetation should be retained and protected wherever possible, and
areas immediately adjacent to natural watercourses, lakes, ponds, and wetlands
should be left undisturbed whenever possible.
(Ord. 75A, passed 10-17-2000)
§ 154.22 LAND EXPOSURE.
   The smallest practical area of land should be exposed for the shortest
practical time during development.
(Ord. 75A, passed 10-17-2000)
§ 154.23 ACCOMMODATION OF INCREASED RUNOFF; DRAINAGE WAYS.
   (A)   Provisions should be made by any developer to accommodate the
increased runoff caused by changed soil and surface conditions during and after
development, including activities such as excavation and filling.
   (B)   Provisions should be made to accommodate the increased runoff caused
by changed soil and surface conditions during and after development, and
drainage ways should be designed so that their final gradients and the
resultant velocities and rates of discharge will not create additional erosion
on site or downstream.
(Ord. 75A, passed 10-17-2000)
§ 154.24 WASTE DISPOSAL.
   All waste generated as a result of site development activity should be
properly disposed of and should be prevented from being carried off the site by
either wind or water.
(Ord. 75A, passed 10-17-2000)
§ 154.25 SEDIMENT CONTROL REQUIRED.
   All construction sites must provide measures to prevent sediment from being
tracked onto public or private roadways. Failure to do so will result in
liability to all parties involved for the town’s costs and expenses in removing
or cleaning sediment from the roadways or stormwater systems.
(Ord. 75A, passed 10-17-2000)
§ 154.26 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL MEASURES.
   The selection of erosion and sedimentation control measures should be based
on assessment of the probable frequency of climatic and other events likely to
contribute to erosion, and on evaluation of the risks, costs, and benefits
involved.
(Ord. 75A, passed 10-17-2000)
§ 154.27 DEVELOPMENT OF FIVE OR MORE ACRES; I.A.C. RULE 5 CONTROLS.
   Under certain circumstances, a development may involve land of five acres or
more. In such a situation, Rule 5 of the I.A.C., codified at 327 I.A.C. 15-5,
which involves stormwater runoff associated with construction activity, will
control the development as supplemented by this chapter.
(Ord. 75A, passed 10-17-2000)
§ 154.28 DEVELOPMENT OF ONE TO FIVE ACRES; RULE 5 AS GUIDELINE OR CONTROL.
   (A)   Anyone who has more than one acre but less than five acres of land is
invited to comply with this rule.
   (B)   The requirements of Rule 5 apply to all persons who:
      (1)   Do not obtain an individual NPDES permit under 327 I.A.C. 15-2-6;
      (2)   Meet the general permit rule applicability requirements under 327
I.A.C. 15-2-3; and
      (3)   Are involved in construction activity, which includes clearing,
grading, excavation, and other land disturbing activities, except operations
that result in the disturbance of less than five acres of total land area and
which are not part of a larger common plan of development or sale.
(Ord. 75A, passed 10-17-2000)
SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMITS
§ 154.40 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person shall commence
or perform any clearing, grading, stripping, excavating, or filling of land
which meets the following provisions without having first obtained a site
development permit from the town so that the town can ensure that adequate
steps are taken before and during developments to control erosion and its
effects.
   (B)   This permit will be required for the following activities:
      (1)   Any land disturbing activity such as clearing, grading, stripping,
excavation, filling, or any combination thereof that will affect an area in
excess of 4,000 square feet;
      (2)   Any land disturbing activity that will affect an area in excess of
500 square feet if the activity is within 25 feet of a lake, pond, stream, or
wetland; or
      (3)   Excavation, fill, or any combination thereof that will exceed 100
cubic yards.
(Ord. 75A, passed 10-17-2000)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.41 WAIVER.
   A permit may not be required for certain developmental activities that
either clearly implement all of the requirements of this chapter or are clearly
below the minimum amount of disturbance to the land. Under these circumstances,
the waiver of a permit requirement will be at the discretion of the Town
Council.
(Ord. 75A, passed 10-17-2000)
§ 154.42 APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
   A site development permit will be issued by the appropriate agent of the
town after the owner of the property or the authorized agent submits to the
town a permit form furnished for that purpose and containing the following
information: name(s) and address(es) of the owner or developer of the site and
of any consulting firm retained by the applicant, together with the name of the
applicant’s principal contact at that firm; the documentation showing the final
and existing grade elevations; the name of the land surveyor registered in this
state responsible for the documentation as to the elevations, before and after
the project, which must be sealed by the surveyor on both documents; and a
filing fee of $150.
(Ord. 75A, passed 10-17-2000; Am. Ord. 41-K, passed 10-8-2019)
CHAPTER 155: SUBDIVISION CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Short title
   
155.002   Policy
   
155.003   Purpose
   
155.004   Authority
   
155.005   Jurisdiction
   
155.006   Enactment
   
155.007   Interpretation; minimum requirements; conflicts
   
155.008   State statute to control
   
155.009   Authority to attach conditions
   
155.010   Existing actions
   
155.011   Amendments; public hearings
   
155.012   Usage
   
155.013   Definitions
   
155.014   Enforcement authority; violations
Subdivision Application; General Procedures
   
155.025   Classification of land divisions
   
155.026   Deadlines; holiday extensions
   
155.027   Reserved
   
155.028   Reserved
   
155.029   Classification of subdivisions
   
155.030   Primary plat requirements
   
155.031   Engineering plan requirements
   
155.032   Secondary plat requirements
   
155.033   Surveying requirements
   
155.034   Mandatory park dedication conditions for primary subdivision approval
   
155.035   Criteria for requiring park and recreation land dedication
   
155.036   Reservation of additional land
   
155.037   Improved sites
   
155.038   Procedure
   
155.039   Applicable only to residential zoned subdivision
   
155.040   Sale of dedication recreation/park space
   
155.041   Open space standards for primary subdivision approval
Major Subdivisions; Application and Approval
   
155.045   General procedures
   
155.046   Primary plat approval procedures
   
155.047   Approval of engineering plans
   
155.048   Secondary plat approval procedures
   
155.049   Signing and recording a plat
   
155.050   Disapproval of secondary plat; grounds
Minor Subdivisions
   
155.055   General provisions
   
155.056   Primary plat
   
155.057   Primary plat approval
   
155.058   Secondary plat
   
155.059   Secondary plat approval
   
155.060   Recording of secondary plat
   
155.061   Minor subdivision plat preparation
   
155.062   Minor subdivision supporting data
   
155.063   Minor subdivision standards
Improvements
   
155.075   Bond; responsibility for costs
   
155.076   Construction; inspection; maintenance
   
155.077   Acceptance of improvements
   
155.078   As-built plans
   
155.079   Survey monuments
Minimum Design Standards
   
155.090   Minimum standards
   
155.091   Streets
   
155.092   Sidewalks
   
155.093   Easements
   
155.094   Sanitary sewers
   
155.095   Water supply
   
155.096   Construction materials
   
155.097   Construction requirements
Drainage; Design Standards
   
155.110   Purpose and policy
   
155.111   Master Drainage Plan
   
155.112   Detailed Drainage Plan; measurement and computation
   
155.113   Roadway culverts
   
155.114   Storm sewers
   
155.115   Open watercourse
   
155.116   Stormwater management system; overflow routing; floodplain
cmpensatory storage; flood protection grades
Resubdivision, Plat Vacation, and Waivers
   
155.130   Resubdivision
   
155.131   Vacation of plats
   
155.132   Waivers
   
Appendix A: Certificates
   
Appendix B: Table of Runoff Coefficients
   
Appendix C: Standard Construction Details
   
Appendix D: Indiana Department of Transportation Details
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate land use and related administration, see I.C. 36-7-
4 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be cited as the town’s Subdivision Code and shall be
referred to herein as this chapter.
(Ord. 27, § 1.10.10, passed 4-16-1997)
§ 155.002 POLICY.
   (A)   It is declared to be the policy of the town to consider the
subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the subdivided plat as
subject to the control of the municipality for the orderly, planned, efficient,
and economical development of the town.
   (B)   Land to be subdivided shall be of a character so that it can be used
safely for building purposes without danger to health or peril from fire,
flood, or other menace, and land shall not be subdivided until adequate public
facilities and improvements exist and proper provision has been made for
drainage, water, sewerage, and capital improvements such as schools, parks,
recreational facilities, transportation facilities, and improvements.
   (C)   The existing and proposed public improvements shall conform to and be
properly related to the proposals shown in the Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Map,
Chapter 156 of this code, and the capital budget and program of the town, and
it is intended that these regulations shall supplement and facilitate the
enforcement of the provisions and standards contained in the building codes,
Chapter 156, the Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Map, and land use plan, and the
town’s capital budget and program.
(Ord. 27, § 1.10.20, passed 4-16-1997)
§ 155.003 PURPOSE.
   These regulations are adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   No owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any parcel before a plat of the
subdivision has been approved by the Plan Commission, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, and filed with the County Recorder;
   (B)   The division of any lot or any parcel of land into a subdivision, as
defined in this chapter, by the use of metes and bounds descriptions for the
purpose of sale, transfer, or lease resulting in the creation of one or more
new building sites shall not be permitted. All described divisions shall be
subject to all of the appropriate requirements of this chapter;
   (C)   To protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the town;
   (D)   To guide the future growth and development of the town in accordance
with the Comprehensive Plan;
   (E)   To provide for adequate light, air, and privacy, to secure safety from
fire, flood, and other danger, and to prevent overcrowding of the land and
undue congestion of the population;
   (F)   To protect and conserve the value of land throughout the town and the
value of buildings and improvements upon the land, and to minimize the
conflicts among the uses of land and buildings;
   (G)   To guide public and private policy and action in order to provide
adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks,
playgrounds, recreation, and other public requirements and facilities;
   (H)   To provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land
and buildings and the circulation of traffic throughout the town, having
particular regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets and highways
and the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various uses of land
and buildings, and to provide for the proper location and width of streets and
building lines;
   (I)   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivisions in order to further the orderly layout and use
of land, and to ensure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided
land;
   (J)   To ensure that public facilities and services are available concurrent
with development and will have a sufficient capacity to serve the proposed
subdivision and that the community will be required to bear no more than its
fair share of the cost of providing the facilities and services, through
requiring the developer to pay fees, furnish land, or establish measures to
ensure that the development provides its fair share of capital facilities needs
generated by the development;
   (K)   To prevent the pollution of air, streams, and ponds; to assure the
adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table; and to encourage
the wise use and management of natural resources throughout the town in order
to preserve the integrity, stability, and beauty of the community and the value
of the land;
   (L)   To preserve the natural beauty and topography of the town and to
ensure appropriate development with regard to these natural features; and
   (M)   To provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and
layout of the land, including the use of average density in providing for
minimum width and area of lots, while preserving the density of development as
established in Chapter 156 of this code.
(Ord. 27, § 1.10.30, passed 4-16-1997)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.004 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter, which was enacted pursuant to state Home Rule and Planning
Enabling Legislation (I.C. 36-1-3-4 and 36-7-4-700 series, as amended),
authorizes the town’s Plan Commission to review and approve or disapprove plats
for subdivisions within the corporate limits of the town. This authority
extends to the development or resubdivision of undeveloped portions of already
recorded plats.
(Ord. 27, § 1.10.40, passed 4-16-1997)
§ 155.005 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This subdivision chapter shall apply to all subdivisions of land, as
defined herein, located within the legal boundaries of the town.
   (B)   No land shall be subdivided within the legal boundaries until the
subdivider or his or her subdivision agent shall have fulfilled the procedures
and requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 27, § 1.10.50, passed 4-16-1997)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 155.006 ENACTMENT.
   In order that land may be subdivided in accordance with these purposes and
policy, the subdivision standards herein are hereby adopted as part of this
code of ordinances.
(Ord. 27, § 1.10.60, passed 4-16-1997)
§ 155.007 INTERPRETATION; MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS; CONFLICTS.
   (A)   Interpretation and application. In their interpretation and
application, the provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
   (B)   Conflicts with public provisions. The regulations of this chapter are
not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any other ordinance, rule or
regulation, statute, or other provision of law. Where any provision of these
regulations imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other
provision of these regulations or any other ordinance, rule or regulation, or
other provision of law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose
higher standards shall control.
(Ord. 27, § 1.10.70, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 97, passed 12-18-2001)
§ 155.008 STATE STATUTE TO CONTROL.
   This chapter shall be interpreted to be supplemental to any statutes of the
state. To the extent that a court of competent jurisdiction shall determine any
portion of this chapter to be in conflict with a statute of the state and not
be authorized by the same, the statute of the state shall control.
(Ord. 27, § 1.10.150, passed 4-16-1997)
§ 155.009 AUTHORITY TO ATTACH CONDITIONS.
   The regulation of the subdivision of land and the attachment of reasonable
conditions to land subdivision is an exercise of valid police power delegated
by the state to the town. The developer has the duty of compliance with
reasonable conditions laid down by the Plan Commission for design, dedication,
improvement, and restrictive use of the land to conform to the physical and
economic development of the town and to the health, safety, and general welfare
of the future lot owners in the subdivision and of the town at large.
(Ord. 27, § 1.10.100, passed 4-16-1997)
§ 155.010 EXISTING ACTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall not be construed as abating any action now pending
under or by virtue of the pre-existing subdivision ordinance, or as
discontinuing, abating, modifying, or altering any penalty accruing or about to
accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm, or corporation, or
as waiving any right of a participating jurisdiction under any section or
provision existing at the time of adoption of these regulations, or as vacating
or annulling any rights obtained by any person, firm, or corporation, by lawful
action of the participating jurisdiction, except as shall be expressly provided
for in these regulations.
   (B)   Any proposed or actual subdivision of land having been granted primary
and/or secondary plat approval by the County Plan Commission under the county
subdivision regulations shall be held to the provisions of that previous
ordinance only and not to the provisions of this chapter, including existing
provisions of time extension for primary plat approval. Any proposed
subdivision of land for which a completed application seeking primary plat
approval and fee have been submitted and accepted by the County Plan Commission
prior to the date of enactment of this chapter shall be held to the provisions
of the county subdivision regulations only, and not to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Any subdivision qualifying under divisions (A) or (B) of this section,
having been granted either sketch plan, primary, or secondary approval under
the county subdivision regulations and prior to the date of enactment of this
chapter, and subsequently having completed the requirements for recording under
those ordinances, may be signed by the designated officials as having been
granted secondary approval and permitted to record the plat.
(Ord. 27, § 1.10.80, passed 4-16-1997)
§ 155.011 AMENDMENTS; PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   For the purpose of providing for the public health, safety, and general
welfare, the Town Council, on recommendation of the Commission, may from time
to time propose amendments to these regulations. Public hearings on all
proposed amendments shall be held by the Commission and/or Council in the
manner prescribed by law.
(Ord. 27, § 1.10.90, passed 4-16-1997)
§ 155.012 USAGE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following usages shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different interpretation, or
unless otherwise specifically stated.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
      (2)   Words used in the plural number shall include the singular, and
vice versa.
   (B)   Terms not defined in this chapter shall have their customary meanings.
(Ord. 27, § 2.10.10, passed 4-16-1997)
§ 155.013 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A building or use which:
      (1)   Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal use;
      (2)   Contributes to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of occupants
of the principal building or principal use served;
      (3)   Is subordinate in area, extent, or purpose to the principal
building or principal use served; and
      (4)   Is located on the same lot as the principal use or structure
served, with the exception of accessory off-street parking facilities as are
permitted elsewhere than on the same lot with the use or structure.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The duly appointed Building and Zoning Administrator for the
town.
   ALLEY. A public or private vehicular right-of-way primarily designed to
serve as secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose
principal frontage is on some other street.
   ALL SOIL TYPES. Location of the predominant soil types, which may be
determined by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources
Conservation Service, or county soil survey in the sketch plan and as
determined by a certified professional soil scientist in the primary
subdivision plat.
   APPLICANT. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided, or representative
who shall have express written authority to act on behalf of the owner. Written
consent acceptable to the Commission shall be required from the legal owner of
the premises.
   APPROVED STREET. Any street, whether public or private, meeting standards
and specifications of the town.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines of waterways,
or boundary lines of municipalities, or other types of definite boundaries.
   BOND. Any form of surety including a cash deposit, certificate of deposit,
surety bond, letter of credit, or instrument of credit. All BONDS shall be
approved by the Town Council whenever a BOND is required.
   BUFFER LANDSCAPING. Any trees, shrubs, walls, fences, berms, or related
landscaping features required under this chapter or other applicable ordinances
on private lots and privately maintained for buffering lots from adjacent
properties or public rights-of-way for the purpose of increasing privacy and/or
otherwise minimizing detrimental environmental effects (such as, noise, light,
water runoff, and the like).
   BUILDING. A structure having a roof, supported by columns or walls, for the
shelter, support, or enclosure of persons, property, or animals; and when
separated by division walls from the ground up and without openings, each
portion of the BUILDING shall be deemed a separate BUILDING. The term includes
the word STRUCTURE, and vice versa.
   BUILDING LINE. The line that establishes the minimum permitted distance on a
lot between the front line of a building and the street right-of-way.
   CENTRAL SEWER SYSTEM. Either a community sewer system including collection
and treatment facilities established by a developer to serve one or more new or
existing subdivisions in an outlying area, or a public sewer system.
   CENTRAL WATER SYSTEM. Either a community water system including water
treatment and distribution facilities established by a developer to serve one
or more new or existing subdivisions in an outlying area, or a public water
system.
   COMMISSION. The Advisory Plan Commission of the town, unless otherwise
specified.
   COMMISSION ATTORNEY. The licensed attorney designated by the Commission to
furnish legal assistance for the administration of this chapter or as provided
by statute.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Inclusive physical, social, and economic plans and
policies in graphic statement forms for the development of the town and adopted
by the Commission pursuant to the I.C. 36-7-4-500 series and including any part
and/or policies separately adopted and any amendment to that plan and/or
policies, or parts thereof. It does not include the implementing ordinances,
such as Chapter 156 of this code and this subdivision control chapter.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlet that terminates in a
vehicular turnaround and has an appropriate terminal for the safe and
convenient reversal of traffic movement.
   DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per gross acre, computed by dividing
the gross acreage of the subdivision into the total number of dwelling units.
   DESIGNATED OFFICIALS. The President and Secretary of the town’s Plan
Commission or their nominees who may sign subdivision documents per I.C. 36-7-
4-700 series.
   DEVELOPED AND IMPROVED. The construction and placement upon a lot, with all
required permits, of a principal building or structure as allowed by the zoning
for that lot and approved by the town.
   DEVELOPER. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his or her
representative who is responsible for any undertaking that requires review and/
or approval under these regulations.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use by another, for a specific
purpose, of any designated part of his or her property.
   ESCROW. A deposit of cash with the Town Council in lieu of an amount
required and still in force on a performance bond or maintenance bond. These
ESCROW funds shall be held by the town.
   FRONTAGE. That side of a lot abutting on a street or way and ordinarily
regarded as the front of the lot except as provided for on a corner lot.
   FRONTAGE STREET. Any street to be constructed by the developer or any street
already existing along which development shall take place on both sides.
   GRADE. The slope of a road, street, or other public way specified in
percentage terms.
   GROSS LAND AREA or GROSS ACREAGE. The entire area of a subdivision,
including lots, streets, and alleys, measured to the centerline of any bounding
streets.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT and HEALTH OFFICER. The agency designated by state law and
the person designated by the town to administer the health regulations of the
town.
   HOBBY FARMS. A farm for personal enjoyment and not for commercial gain; in
subdivisions, according to the provisions of §
 156.040 of this code, HOBBY FARMS are permitted only when at least 80% of the
platted lots are five acres or more in size.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A septic tank or any other similar sewage
treatment device approved by the Health Department and placed to service one
individual lot.
   JOINT OWNERSHIP. Ownership by more than one person; each shall be considered
as sole owner and joined for approval purposes.
   LOT. Any piece or parcel of land or a portion of a subdivision, the
boundaries of which have been established by some legal instrument of record
and are coterminous with all adjoining real estate, that is recognized and
intended as a unit for the purpose of transfer of ownership. LOT includes the
words PLOT, PIECE, and PARCEL.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting on and at the intersection of two or more
streets.
   LOT, FLAG. A lot with access provided to the bulk of the lot by means of a
narrow corridor.
   LOT IMPROVEMENT. Any building, place, or other object, constituting a
physical betterment of real property, or any part of this type of betterment,
which requires a permit from the town.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner or through lot.
   LOT, THROUGH or DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A lot fronting on two parallel or
approximately parallel streets; also a lot fronting on both a street and a
watercourse or lake.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. All subdivisions not classified as a minor subdivision,
including but not limited to subdivisions of three or more lots, or any size
subdivision requiring any new street or extension of the local governmental
facilities, or the creation of any central or public improvements.
   MARKER. A stake, pipe, rod, nail, or any other object which is not intended
to be a permanent point for record purposes.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision of not more than two lots, all with
frontage on a perimeter street, or any further subdivision or resubdivision of
a non-residential development whose lots may or may not have frontage on a
perimeter street which does not include any improvement to a public road,
provided this subdivision activity involves neither the construction of any new
street or road, nor the imposition of any adverse effect upon the use of the
remainder of the land or adjoining property as determined by the Commission,
and provided this activity does not conflict with any provisions or portion of
the Comprehensive Plan, Official Zoning Map, or Chapter 156 of this code, nor
any of the regulations set forth therein.
   MODEL HOME. A dwelling unit used initially for display purposes which
exemplifies the type of dwelling units that will be constructed within the
subdivision and which will not be permanently occupied during its use as a
model. These dwelling units may be utilized for the sole purpose of real estate
offices for the sale of lots within the same subdivision as set forth in the
provisions of this chapter. MODEL HOMES shall be petitioned pursuant to §
155.132 of this code.
   MONUMENT. A permanent physical structure which marks the location of a
corner or other survey point.
   PARCEL. A part or portion of land having a legal description formally set
forth in a conveyance, together with the boundaries thereof, in order to make
possible its easy identification.
   PARENT PARCEL. The original lot, tract, or parcel of land as it existed upon
the adoption of this chapter, provided the plat is not in violation of any
previous ordinance. The PARENT PARCEL is ascertained by the tax key numbers on
record in the office of the County Auditor.
   PARKWAY. An unpaved strip of land situated within the public right-of-way of
a street.
   PERIMETER STREET. Any existing street to which the parcel of land to be
subdivided abuts on only one side.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, a corporation, a partnership, and an
unincorporated association, or their agents.
   PLAN COMMISSION. The PLAN COMMISSION of the town, unless otherwise
specified.
   PLAT. A plan, map, or drawing on which the subdivider’s plan for the
subdivision of land is presented and which he or she submits for approval and
intends to record in final form.
   PLAT, PRIMARY. The drawing or drawings indicating the proposed manner of
layout of the subdivision meeting the conditions of this chapter to be
submitted to the Commission for primary approval and prepared by a registered
land surveyor or registered engineer.
   PLAT, SECONDARY. The map or drawing, described in this chapter, on which the
subdivider’s plan of subdivision is presented to the Commission for secondary
approval, and which if approved and signed by the designated officials may be
submitted to the County Recorder for filing.
   PLAT, TENTATIVE. See SKETCH PLAN.
   PRIMARY APPROVAL. An approval, or approval with conditions imposed, granted
to a subdivision by the Commission after having determined in a public hearing
that the subdivision complies with the standards prescribed by this chapter per
I.C. 36-7-4-700 series - subdivision control.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. The building or structure in which the
principal use of the lot or premises is located or conducted. With respect to
residential uses, the PRINCIPAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE shall be the main
dwelling.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrian way, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement, or other
facility for which the town may ultimately assume the responsibility for
maintenance and operation, or which may effect an improvement for which town
responsibility is established.
   RESUBDIVISION. A change in a map of a plat having secondary approval or a
recorded subdivision plat if that change affects any street layout on the map
or area reserved thereon for public use, or any lot line, except as otherwise
exempted in this chapter.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, pedestrian way, crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or
gas pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, special landscaping, or
for another special use. The usage of the term RIGHT-OF-WAY for land
platting purposes shall mean that every RIGHT-OF-WAY hereafter established and
shown on a secondary plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or
parcels adjoining that RIGHT-OF-WAY and not included within the dimensions or
areas of those lots or parcels. RIGHTS-OF-WAY intended for streets, crosswalks,
water mains, sanitary sewers, storm drains, or any other use involving
maintenance by a public agency shall be dedicated to public use by the
subdivider on whose plat the RIGHT-OF-WAY is established.
   ROADWAY. The paved area within a street right-of-way intended for vehicular
traffic, including all curb and gutter facilities.
   SECONDARY APPROVAL. The stage of application for formal Commission approval
of a secondary plat of a subdivision, after adequate assurances have been
provided to the Commission to cover the installation and completion of
improvements in compliance with the chapter, which if approved and signed by
the designated officials may be submitted to the County Recorder for filing.
   SECONDARY PLAT. The map or drawing, described in this chapter, on which the
subdivider’s plan of subdivision is presented to the Commission for secondary
approval, and which if approved and signed by the designated officials may be
submitted to the County Recorder for filing.
   SHALL. The act referred to is always mandatory and never discretionary.
   SHOULD. The act referred to is advisory.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. A street of considerable continuity which carries a large
volume of traffic from one section of town to another.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street which carries traffic from minor streets to
another COLLECTOR or arterial street, including the principal entrance streets
to residential developments and the principal circulating streets within a
residential development.
   STREET, LOCAL. A street used primarily for access to abutting properties,
usually residential.
   STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS or FRONTAGE ROAD. A public or private street
generally paralleling and contiguous to a main traveled way, primarily designed
to promote safety by reducing ingress and egress to the right-of-way and
providing safe and orderly points of access at fairly uniformly spaced
intervals.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person having a proprietary interest in land, who causes it
to be divided into a subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   The division of a parcel of land into lots, parcels, sites, units,
plats, or interests for the purpose of offer, sale, lease, or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms, and
conditions, including resubdivision. SUBDIVISION includes the division of
development of land zoned for residential and non-residential uses.
   SUBDIVISION AGENT. Any person who represents, or acts for or on behalf of, a
subdivider or developer, in selling, leasing, or developing, or offering to
sell, any interest, lot, parcel, unit, site, or plat in a subdivision.
   TECHNICAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE or TAC. A committee of the Plan Commission,
consisting of the following members:
      (1)   Zoning Administrator;
      (2)   Town Building Administrator;
      (3)   Town Engineer;
      (4)   Designee of Indiana American Water;
      (5)   Designee of the Winfield Sewer Board;
      (6)   Plan Commission Attorney;
      (7)   Three Members of the Plan Commission;
      (8)   County Highway Department;
      (9)   County Drainage Board (County Surveyor);
      (10)   Volunteer Fire Department;
      (11)   Any additional agencies as requested by Staff;
      (12)   Soil and Water Conservation District; and
      (13)   Designee of town Stormwater Board.
   TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENT. Any improvement built and maintained by a subdivider
during construction of the subdivision and which shall be ultimately eliminated
by the installation of a permanent improvement by the subdivider.
   TOWN. The Town of Winfield, Lake County, Indiana.
   TOWN ENGINEER. The TOWN ENGINEER or a designated engineering consultant.
   USED FOR. Includes the words DESIGNED FOR and OCCUPIED FOR.
(Ord. 27, § 2.10.20, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 191, passed 6-15-2010; Am. Ord.
41I, passed 2-15-2010; Am. Ord. 27-D, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 155.014 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Building Administrator/Planner, or his
or her designee, to enforce this chapter and to bring to the attention of the
Commission Attorney any violation or lack of compliance herewith.
      (2)   The division of land into a subdivision, as defined in this
chapter, by the use of metes and bounds description for the purpose of sale,
transfer, or lease resulting in the creation of one or more new building sites
shall not be permitted. All thus described divisions shall be subject to all of
the appropriate requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   No location improvement permit or building permit required under
Chapters 151 or 156 of this code, or this chapter, shall be issued on any
property subject to this chapter until the provisions of this chapter have been
complied with.
   (B)   Limits on land transfers. No owner, subdivider, or subdivision agent
of the owner of any land located in a proposed subdivision shall transfer,
sell, or lease any of that land for purposes of subdivision as defined in this
chapter before a secondary plat of that subdivision has been signed by the
designated officials and recorded in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Violations and penalties. Any person who shall be found guilty of a
violation of this chapter or any regulations contained herein, shall be fined
for each day's violation.
   (D)   Restraining provisions.  
      (1)   Any land within the jurisdiction of the town subdivided in
violation of the terms of this chapter after the effective date hereof, is
hereby declared to be a common nuisance, which may be restrained, enjoined, or
abated in any appropriate action or proceeding.
      (2)   The Commission may institute an injunction suit requesting an
individual or entity be directed to remove a structure erected in violation of
this chapter, or to make the same comply with its terms. If the Commission
prevails in the litigation, the respondent shall pay the Commission’s
reasonable attorney’s fees and all costs related to the enforcement of this
chapter.
      (3)   The Commission may institute a suit for mandatory injunction
requesting an individual or entity be directed, where that individual or entity
has violated any provisions of this chapter, to comply with the provisions of
this chapter. If the Commission prevails in the litigation, the respondent
shall pay the Commission’s reasonable attorney fees and all costs related to
the enforcement of this chapter.
   (E)   Remedies not exclusive. The remedies provided for herein shall be
cumulative and not exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedies
provided by law.
(Ord. 27, § 1.10.140, passed 4-16-1997)
Penalty, see § 10.99
SUBDIVISION APPLICATION; GENERAL PROCEDURES
§ 155.025 CLASSIFICATION OF LAND DIVISIONS.
   (A)   All land to be subdivided shall be categorized into one of two main
classes of land division indicated within this chapter’s definition of
subdivision. The classes are:
      (1)   Major subdivision; and
      (2)   Minor subdivision.
(Ord. 27, § 3.10.10, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 27-D, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 155.026 DEADLINES; HOLIDAY EXTENSIONS.
   Any date or deadline of submission for subdivision application materials or
agency comments shall be extended to the end of the next regular working day
where that date or deadline falls on a weekend or holiday.
(Ord. 27, § 3.10.20, passed 4-16-1997)
§ 155.027 RESERVED.
§ 155.028 RESERVED.
§ 155.029 CLASSIFICATION OF SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Classification of subdivisions. All divided land shall be categorized
into one of the following classes of land division as defined by this section.
   (B)   Minor subdivisions. Minor subdivisions shall include any subdivision
that meets all of the following criteria:
      (1)   Number of lots. No more than two new lots may be created from a
single tract of land by means of a minor subdivision. The two new lots shall be
in addition to the parent tract.
      (2)   Access. All lots in the subdivision and adjacent land will have
adequate ingress and egress without the construction of any new streets or
substantial improvement to existing streets.
         (a)   No new streets or public ways shall be provided. A major
subdivision is required if a new street is necessitated to provide more
efficient traffic flow or increased safety due to topography, natural or man-
made features, or other conditions relating to the property.
         (b)   Adequate ingress and egress to the remainder of the parcel and
surrounding properties will be retained. Frontage on limited access streets on
which driveways cannot open shall not constitute legal access. Land adjacent to
the property involved in the subdivision also will have adequate access
according to the criteria contained in this division (B)(2).
         (c)   Streets must be suitable for vehicular traffic, be in good
repair, and exhibit geometry suitable for the expected volume of traffic.
Approval as a major subdivision shall be required if substantial improvement to
existing streets is required.
         (d)   Driveway locations will provide for adequate sight distance.
      (3)   Utilities and drainage.
         (a)   Sanitary sewer. All lots shall be served by the town municipal
utility for sanitary sewer, or other private sewerage system approved by the
Lake County Health Department. A major subdivision shall be required if an
extension of public sewer is a feasible alternative to a private sewage system
and desirable because of soil conditions, topography, lot sizes, or other
factors. The town sanitary sewer shall be required to be extended to serve any
subdivision that is within 300 feet of existing sewer service by means of
public right of way or easement access.
         (b)   Water. All lots shall be served by a public or quasi-public
water system or shall be capable of having a well that complies with all
requirements of the Indiana Department of Environmental Management and the Lake
County Health Department. Public water shall be required to be extended to
serve any subdivision that is within 300 feet of existing public water service
by means of public right-of-way or easement access.
         (c)   Drainage. All lots shall be provided with drainage improvements
complying with the requirements of §§
155.110 through
155.116.
      (4)   Suitability. All lots in the subdivision will provide suitable
building sites for the purposes for which the land is to be used and in
compliance with existing zoning requirements.
      (5)   Orderly development. The subdivision will not adversely affect the
remainder of the parcel or impede orderly development of land or the provision
of public services and improvements in accordance with the Winfield
Comprehensive Plan and
Chapter 156.
   (C)   Major subdivisions. Any subdivision that does not qualify as a minor
subdivision shall be considered a major subdivision, including any subdivision
that creates more than two new lots (in addition to the parent tract), requires
construction, or reconstruction of streets or requires construction or
extension of public sewer, or water.
   (D)   Determining classification. The town Zoning Administrator shall
designate the class of subdivisions prior to application for review. The
subdivider is encouraged to discuss the proposed subdivision and its
classification with the Zoning Administrator prior to filing an application.
(Ord. 210B, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 155.030 PRIMARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The primary plat submission shall be legibly drawn on tracing cloth or
equal material of good quality no larger than 24 by 36 inches, at a scale of
not more than 100 feet to one inch with a graphic bar scale, except that a
subdivision of 200 acres or more may be drawn at a scale of 200 feet to one
inch with a graphic bar scale, and shall show all required information as
follows:
      (1)   Legal description of the subdivision;
      (2)   Name of the subdivision:
         (a)   Name of subdivision if property is within an existing
subdivision;
         (b)   Proposed name if not within a previously platted subdivision;
the proposed name shall not duplicate the name of any subdivision having
previously received secondary plat approval; or
         (c)   Name of property if no subdivision name has been chosen.
      (3)   Date, scale, and north arrow;
      (4)   Name and address of the owner, subdivider, planner and engineer or
surveyor preparing the plat;
      (5)   A small scale drawing of the section or government subdivision of
the section in which the subdivision lies, with the location of the subdivision
indicated thereon;
      (6)   Location and names of adjacent subdivisions and the owners of
adjoining parcels of unsubdivided land;
      (7)   Present zoning and any requested rezoning;
      (8)   Location, widths, type of construction of all existing and platted
streets, alleys, or other public ways and easements, railroad and utility
rights-of-way, parks, cemeteries, watercourses, drainage ditches and wetlands,
regulated drains, soil erosion measures, swamps, low areas subject to flooding,
100-year floodplain boundary, permanent buildings, bridges and other pertinent
data as determined by the Administrator;
      (9)   Indication of the gross land area of the subdivision and
computation of the density as defined in this chapter;
      (10)   Type of development anticipated on the lots;
      (11)   Topographic information, which may be of a very general nature,
such as is obtainable from U.S.G.S. maps or elevations. This topographic
information shall be referenced to U.S.G.S. datum;
      (12)   Proposed layout width of all new streets and proposed pavement
widths;
      (13)   All soil types according to the published soil survey;
      (14)   Approximate location and area of property proposed to be dedicated
for public use, or to be reserved by deed covenant, for use of all property
owners in the subdivision with the proposed conditions, if any, of the
dedication or reservation;
      (15)   Lot numbers and lot dimensions;
      (16)   If the individual lot sewage disposal systems are proposed in the
subdivision, soil maps prepared from the published soil survey showing all soil
types;
      (17)   Master Drainage Plan per §
155.111 of this code; and
      (18)   The location of property with respect to surrounding property and
streets, the names of adjoining developments, and the names of adjoining
streets;
      (19)   The length and bearing of the exterior boundaries of the
subdivision with reference to a U. S. Land Survey corner;
      (20)   Contours at vertical intervals of not more than two feet with
reference to U.S.G.S. datum (five-foot intervals are acceptable for minor
subdivisions);
      (21)   The water elevations of adjoining lakes or streams at the date of
the survey and the approximate high and low elevations of these lakes or
streams. All elevations shall be referred to U.S.G.S. datum;
      (22)   Any subterranean drainage;
      (23)   If the subdivision borders a lake or stream, the distances and
bearings of a meander line established not less than 20 feet back from the
ordinary high water mark of the lake or stream; or where regulated drains
exist, the drain and easement shall be delineated;
      (24)   A wetland boundaries map from the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service,
National Wetland Inventory, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the National
Resources Conservation Service, Wetland Inventory, or a U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers approved delineation;
      (25)   Layout of all new streets and rights-of-way such as alleys,
highways, easements for sewers, water mains, drainage ways and wetlands, soil
erosion control measures, and other public utilities; and existing streets,
water mains, sanitary sewer mains, and drainage structures within 100 feet of
the subdivision;
      (26)   Direction, size, and distance to the nearest water, sanitary and
storm sewer lines;
      (27)   Dimensions, uses, and area of all proposed and existing lots;
      (28)   Areas of lots where individual septic tank installations are
proposed;
      (29)   Indication of the gross land area of the subdivision and a
computation of the density as defined in this chapter;
      (30)   All soil types listed in the Soil Conservation Service (SCS) soil
survey book of the county;
      (31)   Approximate radii of all curves;
      (32)   If deemed necessary by the Administrator or Commission, on
proposed subdivisions with individual lot sewage systems, information on the
following items shall be supplied and attested to by a civil engineer or soil
scientist registered in this state:
         (a)   Description of soil type to a depth of five feet and soil
borings;
         (b)   Statement of topography; and
         (c)   Elevation of the water table.
      (33)   In instances where the subdivider plans to construct a common
sewage treatment facility or a common water supply system (or both), the
subdivider shall submit evidence to the Plan Commission that the preliminary
system plans have been submitted to the appropriate state agency for action.
   (B)   The above information can be shown as additional information on the
plan submission, or it can be shown on a new tracing cloth or paper medium, or
it can be shown on the engineering plans.
   (C)   Any remapping of soil types must be done by a certified professional
soils scientist.
   (D)   Should any lots be added or deleted to the primary plat, the soils
testing information book should also be revised. Should lot numbers change for
any reason, the soil information book shall also be changed. This information
must be completed and submitted accurately at the primary stage.
   (E)   The County Health Department requires at the primary approval stage
all soil testing be completed by a professional soils scientist. The soil
boring locations must be marked exactly on each lot of the plat and the soil
boring information shall coincide with each lot. The USDA or SCS and the soil
scientist’s survey shall be placed on separate plats.
   (F)   Reserved strips must not be retained between any proposed street and
the lands of an adjacent owner.
   (G)   Individual parcel side yard setbacks shall be designed in a way in
which a minimum of ten feet of space is available on one side yard each to
ensure access to the rear yard from the front yard for the homeowner. To
achieve this, lots shall have a minimum of a ten-foot side yard setback on the
north and/or east sides of homes. Subdividers shall take this into account
during subdivision design.
   (H)   Subdivisions shall be designed to encourage variety in construction.
Anti-monotony policies must be incorporated into design, planning, covenants,
and construction, unless otherwise determined by the Plan Commission.
Minimally, no residence shall be of the same model, color, or the same facade
materials with the same configuration of appearance as any other residence
within three houses to each side, or directly across the frontage street(s).
(Ord. 27, § 7.10.20, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 191, passed 6-15-2010; Am. Ord.
191-B, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 155.031 ENGINEERING PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Engineering plans must be prepared for all required improvements to be
installed by the subdivider. Before obtaining primary approval the subdivider,
if he or she wishes to continue, shall submit ten copies of engineering plans
and specifications prepared by a civil engineer registered in this state.
   (B)   Plans shall be drawn at a scale of no more than one inch equals 50
feet, and map sheets shall be of the same size as the primary plat and numbered
sequentially. The following shall be shown:
      (1)   Plans and profiles showing the locations and typical cross-section
of street pavements including curbs and gutters, sidewalks, drainage easements,
servitudes, rights-of-way, manholes, and catch basins; the location of street
signs; the location, size, and invert elevations of existing or proposed
sanitary sewers, stormwater drains, water mains, valves, curb boxes, and fire
hydrants, showing connections to any existing or proposed utility system; and
the exact location and size of all other underground utilities or structures.
Final street grades are required at this point. Soil borings and C.B.R.s are to
be taken if required by the Town Engineer;
      (2)   All driveways and entrance culverts are to be shown;
      (3)   Storm drainage proposals, which shall include the location of all
storm inlets, manholes, underground storm lines, and open channel flows; the
type and sizing of all storm lines and open channels; the invert elevations at
all junctions; a delineation of watershed areas which specify their acreage and
a calculation of all surface water entering from adjacent lands onto the
proposed subdivision; a computation sheet with the above information recorded
thereon as required by the Town Engineer;
      (4)   A water management plan to include both disposition of surface
drainage and, where needed, provision for subsurface drainage to drain high
water table soils;
      (5)   An erosion and sediment control plan, to include both temporary and
permanent erosion control measures where needed to stabilize on-site soils and
prevent off-site pollution of waters and/or damage to land. This plan shall
comply with 327 I.A.C. 5;
      (6)   Public utility locations;
      (7)   Contours at vertical intervals of not more than two feet with
references to U.S.G.S. datum (five-foot intervals are acceptable for minor
subdivisions);
      (8)   Any other special requirements which may be necessary for the
Administrator and Commission to review;
      (9)   All specifications and references required by the town’s design
standards, including a site grading plan for the entire subdivision;
      (10)   Reserved strips must not be retained between any proposed street
and the lands of an adjacent owner;
      (11)   Title, name, address, stamp, and signature of registered engineer
and date, including revision dates;
      (12)   Detailed Drainage Plan per §
155.112 of this code; and
      (13)   A drain-tile and/or subsurface drainage survey.
(Ord. 27, § 7.10.30, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 27-B, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 155.032 SECONDARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The secondary plat shall be presented in waterproof, non-fading india
ink on tracing cloth or reproducible mylar at an appropriate scale with a
graphic bar scale, on sheets not larger than 24 by 36 inches, and show any
changes or additions required by the conditions of primary approval. All
secondary plats shall bear the signature of a state registered land surveyor,
show all revision dates, and shall be legibly prepared in the following manner,
showing:
      (1)   Besides the lines and dimensions shown on the drawing, the legal
description of the property should also be printed on the plat with india ink.
Only the original drawing on cloth or reproducible mylar will be considered as
secondary plat for recording purposes, provided it is deemed satisfactory for
printing by the Administrator. Legends and certificates may be typewritten
directly on the original. The use of adhesive transparent paper will not be
accepted; and
      (2)   When more than one sheet is used for any plat, each sheet shall be
numbered consecutively and shall contain a notation giving the total number of
sheets in the plat, and showing the relation of that sheet to the other sheets.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements found in Title 865 IAC Rule 12, the
secondary plat shall show clearly on its face the following map and engineering
information:
      (1)   Name of the subdivision; if the secondary subdivision plat is only
a portion of the primary subdivision plat, each section or addition shall be
separately designated;
      (2)   Legal description of the subdivision;
      (3)   Name, address, seal, and certification of the registered land
surveyor preparing or certifying the subdivision;
      (4)   Scale, graphic bar, date, and north point;
      (5)   Exact location, width, and name of all streets within the
subdivision and the exact location and width of all alleys, crosswalks, and
other easements; reserved strips must not be retained between any proposed
street and the lands of an adjacent owner;
      (6)   All radii, central angles, points of curvature and tangency, length
of tangents, lengths of arcs, widths of rights-of-way, and similar data shall
be shown for all streets; all street lines shall be tied to other streets and
alleys with accurate dimensions in feet and hundredths thereof and angles or
bearings;
      (7)   All easements dimensioned and identified as to their specific uses;
      (8)   The exact length and bearing to the first degree of accuracy of the
exterior boundary lines of the lands surveyed and divided, and of all blocks,
public grounds, streets and alleys, and lot lines except that when the lines in
any tier of lots are parallel, it shall be sufficient to mark the bearings of
the outer lines on one tier thereof. Easements shall be shown by centerline and
width when lines are parallel to a boundary; otherwise, boundary bearings and
distances shall be shown;
      (9)   Any areas, other than public rights-of-way, to be dedicated or
reserved for public use or semi-public, or areas to be reserved for the common
use of all property owners, shall be shown on the drawing and labeled as to its
use and shall have a separate legal description on the drawing with accurate
dimensions in feet and hundredths thereof; and bearings expressed in degrees,
minutes, and seconds;
      (10)   Regulatory flood boundary and elevation, shown and labeled, for
any plat having land in a floodplain;
      (11)   All monuments erected, corners, and other points established in
the field in their proper places. The material of which monuments, corners, or
other points is made shall be noted at the presentation thereof, or by legend;
      (12)   All blocks and lots numbered, and the numbering (where possible)
shall follow the numbering of the primary plat;
      (13)   A small drawing of the town in which the subdivision lies with the
location of the subdivision indicated thereon. The drawing shall be oriented on
the sheet in the same direction as the main drawing;
      (14)   Abutting streets of adjoining plats and county highways shown in
their proper location. The widths and names of these streets and highways shall
also be given;
      (15)   Certificates to accompany plat to entitle a secondary plat to be
recorded; those certificates as required by law shall be lettered or printed in
the secondary plat. Appendix A of this chapter lists certain certificates, some
of which shall be placed on every plat; these are so indicated;
      (16)   All lake or shore meander lines established by the surveyor in
accordance with this section, the distance and bearings thereof, and the
distance between the points of intersection of these meander lines with lot
lines and the ordinary high water mark;
      (17)   The number of degrees and minutes (to the second) in all exterior
boundary and block angles. When these angles are between a curve and its
tangent, the angle shown shall be that between the tangent and the main chord
of the curve. When between curves of different radii, the angle between the
main chords shall be shown;
      (18)   Building setback lines accurately shown with dimensions; they
shall be in compliance with Chapter 156 of this code as set forth for the
district in which the property is located. A Typical Lot Detail diagram shall
be included on the plat. This shall include details on building setback lines,
public utility and drainage easements for a typical interior lot and a typical
corner lot. For subdivision developments with multiple housing types, the same
details must be provided for lots of each type. An example of this notation is
below;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2357.png]
 
      (19)   The total area of the plat computed in acres; including notes on
lot area, outlot area, right-of-way dedication, and open space. An example of
this notation below;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2359.png]
 
      (20)   House numbers shall be designated on each lot. In order to prevent
confusion in the permitting process, multi-unit structures shall identify and
assign a house number for each specific unit on the plat, rather than simply
providing a list of addresses;
      (21)   The following information relating to the position and location of
the subdivision shall be shown on the plat:
         (a)   The location of the subdivision by government lot, section,
township, range, and county;
         (b)   The exact location of the subdivision indicated by distances and
bearings with reference to a corner or corners of a section or half section; in
case any subdivision crosses any section, quarter section, or quarter section
lines, or is adjacent to any of these lines, all section, quarter section, or
quarter section corners in or adjacent to the subdivision shall be marked and
referenced with monuments; and
         (c)   The area designated for septic field location including move-
over location in conformance with requirements of the Lake County Health
Department or designated jurisdictional authority.
      (22)   A copy of the secondary plat shall be provided digitally as
specified by the Planning Administrator in AutoCad or equivalent format and PDF
format.
      (23)   Information on anti-monotony rules shall be included on the plat
unless it has been determined by the Plan Commission that they are not
applicable in the subdivision or development.
(Ord. 27, § 7.10.40, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 210, passed 9-11-2012; Am. Ord.
210-C, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 155.033 SURVEYING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General. Every subdivision of land under the terms of this chapter
shall require a survey meeting the requirements of Title 865 IAC Rule 12 and
the following requirements prepared by a surveyor registered in this state.
   (B)   Requirements. The description and location of all survey monuments
placed in the subdivision shall be shown upon all maps of record.
      (1)   Permanent monuments shall be of 5/8-inch steel rod encased in
concrete with a diameter of four to six inches and when feasible 36 inches
deep, set flush with the ground. Road centerline control monumentation shall
also be set.
      (2)   Block corners shall be established by placement of an iron rod or
pipe not less than 5/8-inch in diameter and not less than two feet long and
shall be driven flush with the ground. All points of intersection between lot
lines and section, quarter section, or quarter section lines shall be marked
and referenced with an iron rod or pipe in an approved manner. Permanent
monuments shall be erected at all corners or changes in bearing of the exterior
boundary of the subdivision. All monuments shall be installed pursuant to Title
865 IAC Rule 12.
   (C)   Certificates. Each and all secondary plats shall bear thereon or
incorporated by reference thereon, the following certificates, as shown in
Appendix A of this chapter:
      (1)   Plan Commission certificate;
      (2)   Land surveyor’s certificate;
      (3)   Deed of dedication; and
      (4)   Utility easement.
(Ord. 27, §§ 7.20.10 - 7.20.30, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 210, passed 9-11-
2012)
§ 155.034 MANDATORY PARK DEDICATION CONDITIONS FOR PRIMARY SUBDIVISION
APPROVAL.
   As a condition of primary approval of a subdivision, for residential zoned
real estate including planned unit developments, each subdivider or developer
will be required to dedicate land for park and recreational purposes to serve
the immediate and future needs of the residents of the development, in
accordance with the standards, criteria and formula set forth in this section.
Such dedication of park land may be accomplished by dedicating or donating land
that is outside of the proposed development so long as such dedication or
donation meets the standards and criteria outlined in §
155.035(E). Such dedication of park land may also be accomplished by payments
in lieu of dedication/donation of park land so long as such payment complies
with the requirements of §
155.035(F).
(Ord. 145, passed 6-8-2006)
§ 155.035 CRITERIA FOR REQUIRING PARK AND RECREATION LAND DEDICATION.
   (A)    Requirement and population ratio. The ultimate density of a proposed
development shall bear directly upon the amount of land required for
dedication. The total requirement shall be determined by multiplying the
ultimate population by .020, the product of which shall be the total park
acreage required.
      (1)   The determination of ultimate population shall be determined as
follows:
 
Table of Estimated Ultimate Population Per Dwelling Unit
Owner occupied housing average  3.14 persons per dwelling
Renter occupied housing average 2.51 persons per dwelling
This information was taken from Table DP-1 Profile of General Demographic
Characteristics 2000 in the 2000 census for the Town of Winfield
 
      (2)   Except as provided, however, that if the product derived by
multiplying the ultimate population of the entire proposed development by .020
does not exceed one-half acre, no park land dedication shall be required in the
subdivision.
   (B)   Location.  
      (1)   The Plan Commission may recommend, approve, or disapprove the
location of any proposed site. A central location, which will serve equally the
entire community is most desirable. In large developments, sites should be
located throughout the development according to established standards for park
area distances.
      (2)   The final determination concerning the acceptability of land for
park use and type shall be made by the Plan Commission at the time of primary
plat approval.
   (C)   Credit for private open spaces and recreation areas.  
      (1)   When subdividers or developers provide their own open space for
recreation areas and facilities, it has the effect of reducing the demand for
local public recreational services. Depending on the size of the development, a
portion of the park and recreation area in subdivisions or planned unit
developments may, at the option of the Plan Commission, be provided in the form
of private open spaces in lieu of dedicated public open space. The application
of the subdivider shall be referred to the Plan Commission for review, report
and recommendation, which review shall consider the needs of the projected
residents of the development. After receipt of the report of the Plan
Commission, and a finding that the application will serve the needs of the
projected residents and meets the standards set forth hereafter, the Plan
Commission shall approve the application at the time of primary approval.
      (2)   In general, a substitution of private open space for dedicated
parks will imply a substantially higher degree of improvement and the
installation of recreational facilities, including equipment by the developer
as part of his obligation. Detailed plans of such areas, including
specifications of facilities to be installed, must be approved by the Plan
Commission and before any credit is given for private recreation areas, the
subdivider or developer must guarantee that these private recreation areas will
be permanently maintained for such use by the execution of the appropriate
legal documents, including covenants. When an adjustment for private recreation
areas is warranted, it will be necessary to compute the total park land
dedication that would have been required from the subdivision or planned unit
development and then subtract the credit to be given.
   (D)   Standards for private recreation improvements. If the Plan Commission,
after report and recommendation, finds that it is in the public interest to
accept certain private recreation improvements, the following standards should
be met:
      (1)   Yards, court areas, setbacks, and other open areas required to be
maintained by the zoning and building ordinances and regulations shall not be
included in the computation of such private open space;
      (2)   Private ownership and maintenance of the open space is adequately
provided for by recorded written agreement, conveyance, or restrictions;
      (3)   Use of the private open space is restricted for park and
recreational purposes by recorded covenant, which runs with the land in favor
of the future owners of property and which cannot be defeated or eliminated
without the consent of the Plan Commission;
      (4)   The proposed private open space is reasonably adaptable for use for
park and recreational purposes, taking into consideration such factors as size,
shape, topography, geology access, and location;
      (5)   The facilities proposed for the open space are adequate to serve
the purpose of the open space.
   (E)   Credit for donation of land outside proposed development.  
      (1)   The requirement outlined in §
155.034 may be satisfied by dedication or donation of land, of the size
required under division (A) above, outside the proposed development for park
and recreational purposes. The application of the subdivider shall be referred
to the Plan Commission for review, report and recommendation. Such review,
report and recommendation by the Plan Commission shall be made in consideration
of the following factors:
         (a)   The proposed land to be donated must be adjacent to an existing
park and recreation facility within the town.
         (b)   The proposed development must be less than 20 acres in order to
be eligible for the above-mentioned credit. All proposed developments in excess
of 20 acres shall follow the requirements of division (A) above.
         (c)   The proposed dedication and donation of land outside the
development is compatible with current and future uses and growth of existing
park and recreation facilities, as envisioned by the town's Comprehensive
Master Plan.
      (2)   After receipt of the report of the Plan Commission, and a finding
that the application meets the standards set forth in this section, the Plan
Commission shall act on the application at the time of primary plat approval.
   (F)   Payment in lieu of donation/dedication of park land. Subject to the
approval of the Plan Commission, the developer/subdivider may elect to make a
cash “in lieu of” land dedication payment to the town for deposit in an escrow
account to be used only for public park acquisition, development, and capital
improvement of parks within the town. Approval of any such “cash in lieu of
land dedication” request shall be in the sole discretion of the Plan
Commission. Cash contributions made pursuant to this section shall be
equivalent to the fair market value of the amount of land that would otherwise
be required to be set aside for recreational/park space within the subdivision.
All cash contributions made pursuant to this section shall be paid prior to the
signing and recordation of the final plat of subdivision equal to fair market
value of the amount of land that would otherwise be required to set aside for
recreational park space within the subdivision.
(Ord. 145, passed 6-8-2006; Am. Ord. 145A, passed 12-18-2007)
§ 155.036 RESERVATION OF ADDITIONAL LAND.
   Where the recommendation and determination of the Plan Commission call for a
larger amount of park and recreational land in a particular proposed
subdivision or planned unit development than the developer is required to
dedicate, then the land needed beyond the developer's contribution shall, if so
determined by the Plan Commission, be reserved for subsequent purchase by the
town or other public body designated by the Town provided that the acquisition
is made within three years from the date of approval of the final plat.
(Ord. 145, passed 6-8-2006)
§ 155.037 IMPROVED SITES.
   All park sites shall be dedicated in a condition that includes being
provided with a sanitary sewer tap, a water tap, final grading, seeding or
sodding, as well as being provided direct access to electric, telephone, and
cable television. Additionally, parks shall have sidewalks installed along all
street frontages and streets (including enclosed drainage and curb and gutter)
as applicable to the location of the site, or acceptable provision made
therefor.
(Ord. 145, passed 6-8-2006)
§ 155.038 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   At the time of primary approval of the subdivision, the Plan
Commission may recommend land to be dedicated. The recommendation by the Plan
Commission shall include the following:
      (1)   The amount of land required;
      (2)   That a stated amount of credit be given for private recreation
facilities or unique natural and special features;
      (3)   The location of the park land to be dedicated;
      (4)   The approximate time when development of the park or recreation
facility shall commence.
   (B)   In making its final determination, the Plan Commission shall be guided
by the standards contained in §§
155.034 through
155.040. After making its final determination, the Plan Commission shall give
notice to the subdivider, the Town Council, and any other interested party.
   (C)   Prior to the time of the signing of the final plat of subdivision, the
subdivider shall dedicate the land as previously determined by the Plan
Commission.
   (D)   Open space covenants for private park or recreational facilities shall
be submitted to the Plan Commission prior to primary approval and shall be
recorded contemporaneously with the final plat of subdivision.
(Ord. 145, passed 6-8-2006)
§ 155.039 APPLICABLE ONLY TO RESIDENTIAL ZONED SUBDIVISION.
   The provisions of this section shall apply to all subdivisions zoned
residential including planned unit developments, and shall not apply to
business, shopping center, industrial or planned unit development commercial
zoned subdivisions.
(Ord. 145, passed 6-8-2006)
§ 155.040 SALE OF DEDICATION RECREATION/PARK SPACE.
   If in the sole discretion of the town it is determined that recreation/park
space for which the town accepted dedication is either unnecessary, unsuitable
or not economically feasible to be maintained as recreational/park space, the
town may sell such property in accordance with statutory procedures governing
the sale of real estate by the town, and the proceeds thereof shall be
deposited in an escrow account to be used only for public park acquisition,
development, and capital improvement of parks within the town.
(Ord. 145, passed 6-8-2006)
§ 155.041 OPEN SPACE STANDARDS FOR PRIMARY SUBDIVISION APPROVAL.
   As a condition of primary approval of a subdivision, each subdivider or
developer will be required to provide for open space in subdivision design to
serve the immediate and future needs of the residents of the development, in
accordance with the standards, criteria, and formula set forth in this section.
   (A)   Subdivision open space design.
      (1)   Minor subdivisions shall be exempt from the requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   Major subdivisions with a gross density of 1.0 unit per acre or
less shall be exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Subdivision base density. The percentages in the following table refer
to the percentage of a subdivision's gross site acreage which must be devoted
to open space as defined in this chapter.
RESIDENCE DISTRICT (PER ZONING STANDARD OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENT (SOSR)
ORDINANCE)
RESIDENCE DISTRICT (PER ZONING STANDARD OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENT (SOSR)
ORDINANCE)
R-1                            7%
R-2                            7%
R-3                            20%
R-4                            25%
Multi-family                   25%
PDR                            15%
PDM                            20%
 
   (C)   Open space schedule. Together with the primary plat application, the
applicant must submit an open space schedule, noting the open space categories
used and acreage of each. Subdivision open space is divided into three
categories: natural open space, agricultural open space, and designed open
space.
      (1)   Natural open space. (See division (F) below.) Natural open space
includes all land areas set aside in a naturally occurring state, including
priority conservation areas, used either:
         (a)   For the purpose of passive neighborhood recreational use;
         (b)   To protect scenic views; or
         (c)   To minimize views of new development from existing roads.
      (2)   Agricultural open space. (See division (G) below.) Agricultural
open space includes all land areas set aside for agricultural uses, including
pastureland.
      (3)   Designed open space. (See division (H) below.) Designed open space
includes all land areas (other than agricultural and natural open space) set
aside or designed:
         (a)   For passive or active recreational use within neighborhood
areas;
         (b)   To enhance views of new houses from existing roads;
         (c)   To act as neighborhood focal points.
   (D)   General standards for open space. All subdivision open space that is
set aside for common use shall be designed using the standards set forth within
each open space category, and per the general requirements below:
      (1)   Open space must also be accessible for land management and
emergency purposes.
      (2)   Open space must be easily and permanently identifiable as open
space through one or more of the following: maintenance practices, permanent
signage, permanent monuments, paths or walks, walls, or low fencing.
      (3)   Open space intended for active recreational use must be suitable
for such use without posing interference with adjacent dwelling units, parking,
driveways, and roads.
      (4)   Open space shall be undivided by streets or alleys, except where
necessary for proper traffic circulation.
      (5)   Open space must be free of all structures, and buildings, except
for structures directly related to the purpose of the open space provided, such
as swimming pools, clubhouses, gazebos, picnic shelters, band shelters, decks
and bridges. However, the Commission may grant approval of structures and
improvements required for storm drainage, sewage treatment and water supply
within open space, provided that such facilities would not be detrimental to
the usability of open space.
      (6)   There shall be submitted an Open Space Conservation Plan as part of
the primary plat application. The Open Space Conservation Plan shall address
the intended use of project open space.
    (E)   Open space priority areas. Open space priority areas shall be
protected to the extent indicated below, and may be utilized as project open
space:
      (1)   Public wellhead protection areas representing a 200-foot radius
control area around the wellhead, shall be protected in their entirety.
      (2)   The complete sealing of all lakes, ponds, or other water
impoundment of any kind located within the one-year time of travel for any
existing public wellhead. No lakes, ponds, or other water impoundment of any
kind shall be allowed within the 200-foot radius of a public wellhead.
      (3)   The proposed subdivision of any tract shall be designed to cause
the least practicable disturbance to natural infiltration and percolation of
precipitation to the groundwater table, through careful planning of vegetation
and land disturbance activities, and the placement of streets, buildings and
impervious surfaces.
      (4)   All FEMA and IDNR 100-year floodway and floodway fringe areas shall
be preserved in their entirety, however:
         (a)   Alterations to floodway and floodway fringe areas may occur
pursuant to a letter of map revision (LOMR) pursuant to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and Commission approval;
         (b)   Excavation, filling of earth or removal of native vegetation
within 100-year floodway fringe areas shall be prohibited, except as may be
required by the Lake County Drainage Board, or the town or one of its boards or
commissions.
      (5)   Federal jurisdictional wetlands of one-half acre or greater shall
be preserved in their entirety, including a 50-foot perimeter buffer area to
insure their protection. Wetland alterations may occur, however, pursuant to a
mitigation plan approved by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management
and the Winfield Plan Commission.
   (F)   Standards for natural open space.
      (1)    Natural open space consists of any open space priority area, as
set forth in division (E) above. Natural open space areas are generally the
preferred form of project open space, opportunities for natural open space
should be exhausted prior to implementation of other open space types.
      (2)   Natural open space areas may be altered, but only to the extent
indicated in the Open Space Conservation Plan. Such alterations shall occur in
accordance with the below standards, and consistent with the approved Open
Space Conservation Plan.
      (3)   Unless otherwise approved by the Commission, each natural open
space area must:
         (a)   Be a minimum area of one-half acre;
         (b)   Have a minimum width of 75 feet, and
         (c)   Have at least two points of access.
   (G)   Standards for agricultural open space. Agricultural open space shall
be devoted to agricultural uses, including pastureland, or the raising of
crops, and may include residences or facilities that are specifically needed to
support an active, viable agricultural operation. Specifically excluded are
commercial livestock operations involving swine, poultry, mink, and other
animals likely to produce offensive odors.
      (1)   The minimum land area for agricultural open space shall be five
acres.
      (2)   Pastureland is land reserved for horses that are solely for
recreational purposes.
      (3)   Agricultural open space may not consume more than one-half (50%) of
the SOSR.
   (H)   Standards for designed open space. Designed open space shall assume
any one or more of the following forms: however, the Commission may consider
and approve other forms not described in this section, pursuant to the criteria
in division (H)(11) below:
      (1)   Squares. Squares are areas designed as neighborhood focal points
and/or minor destination points for sitting or strolling and located at the
intersection of neighborhood streets.
         (a)   Squares shall be no greater than 10,000 square feet, with a
minimum width of 75 feet.
         (b)   Streets shall bound squares on at least two sides.
         (c)   Squares shall be improved with a combination of paved areas and
landscaped areas, and should be furnished with benches, lighting, and other
site details such as perennial gardens, shrub borders, birdbaths, and
fountains. All landscaping for squares shall be approved by the Plan Commission
based upon the recommendation of the Park Board if one is in existence,
otherwise by the Plan Commission.
      (2)   Parks. Parks are open space areas designed specifically for, and
equipped for, the play of small children.
         (a)   Parks shall have a minimum area of 10,000 square feet, with a
minimum average width of 90 feet.
         (b)   One point of access is required for each 25,000 square feet, up
to a maximum of three points of access.
         (c)   Park areas should be fenced and may include an open shelter.
         (d)   Parks should be interspersed within neighborhoods, a short
walking distance from dwellings.
      (3)   Greens. Greens are medium sized open space areas that are designed
for unstructured recreational use.
         (a)   Greens shall be no less than 40,000 square feet in area, with a
minimum average width of 150 feet.
         (b)   Greens shall be bound on three sides by streets or house
facades.
      (4)   Boulevards. Boulevards are linear open spaces located within a
public or private street and consist of:
         (a)   A linear street median, at least ten feet wide;
         (b)   Tree lawns along each side of the street, at least ten feet
wide, and planted in a formal manner with street trees located on consistent
spacing;
         (c)   Parallel multi-purpose pathways along each side, or, a
multipurpose pathway along one side, and a sidewalk along the other. The
minimum width for multi-purpose paths shall be ten feet.
      (5)   Greenbelts. Greenbelts are located along the perimeter of a
neighborhood and adjacent to arterial streets or parkways. Greenbelts may be
left natural or developed to provide for recreation opportunities. Minimum
width: 100 feet.
      (6)   Planting strips. Planting strips are spaces no less than ten feet
in width for planting miscellaneous plants and shrubs, and may contribute up to
15% of the SOSR.
      (7)   Trails. When a subdivision is traversed by or abuts a proposed or
existing dedicated trail or a special opportunity corridor, the applicant shall
provide for its development and continuation, consistent with the maps and
policies of the Comprehensive Plan.
         (a)   If located outside of the street right-of-way, and upon private
ground, the trail shall be placed within a conservation easement, a minimum of
30 feet in width. The language of the conservation easement shall be to the
satisfaction of the Commission upon recommendation of the Commission attorney.
         (b)   No trail shall be designed with the intent to accommodate
motorized vehicles except maintenance vehicles.
      (8)   Paths. Paths shall generally be located within the undivided
(common) open space lands. In situations where paths must cross portions of
house lots or conservancy lots, a permanent conservation and common access
easement shall protect them.
         (a)   The minimum width for the access easement shall be 15 feet.
         (b)   Paths shall be paved with an all weather surface consisting of
concrete asphalt, stone pavers, or recycled materials approved by the Plan
Commission. All paths shall be constructed upon a compacted subgrade, shall
have a minimum surface material depth of four inches, and a minimum width of
five feet.
      (9)   Golf courses. Golf courses, excluding associated driving ranges or
miniature golf facilities, may comprise up to 50% of the SOSR. However, lands
devoted to parking areas, clubhouses, and any other accessory structures shall
not count toward the SOSR.
      (10) Ponds. Storm water management ponds that are designed, landscaped,
and available for use as an integral part of a subdivision’s open space network
may be counted toward a portion of the SOSR, based on a percentage equal to
that portion of a pond’s perimeter which is not bounded by lots (e.g. 30%
bounded by lots, 70% open space). All such ponds shall be designed to provide
for public access around 100% of the pond’s perimeter.
      (11)   Forms of design open space. The Commission may approve other forms
of design open space if a proposed open space meets the following criteria:
         (a)   It is designed as a neighborhood focal point.
         (b)   It is designed for people, and with one or more specialized
functions, such as a sitting or gathering place; tot lot or playground; an area
for court games, or a rogue or croquet field.
         (c)   It meets the general description of designed open space found in
this section.
         (d)   It meets the general standards for open space found in division
(D) above.
   (I)   Permanent protection through conservation easements.
      (1)   Subdivision open space shall be subject to permanent conservation
easements prohibiting future development and defining the range of permitted
activities.
      (2)   The Commission shall review all proposed easements and shall accept
them provided their wording accomplishes the purposes of this section and is
consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
   (J)   Ownership of open space and common facilities.
      (1)   Ownership options. The methods below may be used, either
individually or in combination, to own common facilities.
      (2)   Transfer. Open space shall not be transferred to another entity
except for transfer to another method of ownership permitted under this
section, and then only when there is no change in the common facilities or in
the open space ratio of the overall development. Ownership methods shall
conform to the following:
         (a)   Fee simple sale or dedication to the Park Board. The Park Board
may, but shall not be required to, purchase or accept the dedication of the
common facilities.
         (b)   Condominium association. Common facilities may be controlled
through the use of condominium agreements. All open land and common facilities
shall be held as common elements.
         (c)   Homeowners association. Common facilities may be held in common
ownership by a homeowners association, subject to any of the provisions for
homeowners associations set forth in the Zoning Ordinance. In addition, the
following regulations shall be met:
            1.   The applicant shall provide the Commission a description of
the organization of the proposed association, including its by-laws, and all
documents governing ownership, maintenance, and use restrictions for common
facilities.
            2.   The proposed association shall be established by the owner or
applicant and shall be operating (with financial subsidization by the owner or
applicant, if necessary) before the sale of any dwelling units in the
development.
            3.   Membership in the association shall be automatic (mandatory)
for all purchaser of dwelling units therein and their successors in title.
            4.   The association shall be responsible for maintenance and
insurance of common facilities.
            5.   The by-laws shall confer legal authority on the association to
place a lien on the real property of any member who falls delinquent in his
dues. Such dues shall be paid with accrued interest before the lien may be
lifted.
            6.   Written notice of any proposed transfer of common facilities
by the association or the assumption of maintenance for common facilities must
be given to all members of the association.
            7.   The association shall have adequate staff to administer,
maintain, and operate such common facilities.
         (d)   Private conservation organization. With permission of the
Commission, an owner may transfer either fee simple title of the open space or
easements on the open space to a private non-profit conservation organization
provided that:
            1.   The conservation organization is acceptable to the Commission
and is a bona fide conservation organization intended to exist indefinitely;
            2.   The conveyance contains appropriate provisions for proper
reversion or retransfer in the event that the organization becomes unwilling or
unable to continue carrying out its functions;
            3.   The open space is permanently restricted from future
development through appropriate covenants and a conservation easement which
cannot be modified and runs with the land.
            4.   A maintenance agreement acceptable to the Commission is
established between the owner and the organization.
         (e)   Dedication of easements to the Park Board. The town may, but
shall not be required to, accept easements for public use of any portion of the
common land or facilities. In such cases, the facility remains in the ownership
of the condominium association, homeowners association, or private conservation
organization. In addition, the following regulations shall apply:
            1.   Any such easements for public use shall be accessible to the
general public.
            2.   A satisfactory maintenance agreement shall be reached between
the owner and the town.
         (f)   Non-common private ownership (conservancy lots). Up to 50% of
the SOSR may be included within one or more large conservancy lots of at least
three acres, provided:
            1.   A maximum of 75% of each lot area may be applied to the SOSR;
            2.   The open space is permanently restricted from future
development;
            3.   The town is given the ability to enforce these restrictions.
   (K)   Maintenance. Unless otherwise agreed to by the Plan Commission, the
cost and responsibility of open space land shall be borne by the property
owner, condominium association, homeowners association, or a conservation
organization.
   (L)   Modifications.
      (1)   The Commission may, after a public hearing, permit the modification
of the provisions of this chapter. However, in terms of modifying any
dimensional requirement (lot area, width, setbacks, etc.), such modification
may not be greater than 40%.
      (2)   Any approval to permit such modification shall be subject to the
following criteria:
         (a)   The proposal shall be in harmony with the purposes and the land-
use standards contained in this chapter;
         (b)   The proposal shall enhance the subdivision plan, the central
core area, the streetscapes, and the neighborhoods, or at least not be any less
desirable than the plan that could be created in conformance with this chapter;
         (c)   The proposal shall not produce lots or street systems that would
be impractical or detract from the appearance of the subdivision plan, and
shall not adversely affect emergency vehicle access or deprive adjoining
noncommercial properties of adequate light and air;
         (d)   The applicant shall demonstrate that the proposed modifications
will produce equal or better results, from the Commission's perspective, and
represent the minimum modification necessary.
      (3)   If the Commission determines that the applicant has met his/her
burden, it may grant a modification of the requirements of this chapter. In
granting modifications, the Commission may impose such conditions that will, in
its judgment, secure the objectives and purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 144, passed 6-8-2006; Am. Ord. 144-A, passed 12-18-2007; Am. Ord. 210,
passed 9-11-2012)
MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS; APPLICATION AND APPROVAL
§ 155.045 GENERAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The applicant seeking approval of a major or minor subdivision shall
submit a primary subdivision plat to be approved, conditionally approved, or
rejected by the Commission at a public meeting following a public hearing.
   (B)   If the primary plat is approved or conditionally approved, then a
secondary plat shall be submitted which must be found in compliance with the
primary plat as approved by the Commission. The secondary subdivision plat must
be approved at a public meeting and signed by the designated officials in order
to be recorded per I.C. 36-7-4-700 series - subdivision control.
(Ord. 27, § 3.20.10, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 191, passed 6-15-2010)
§ 155.046 PRIMARY PLAT APPROVAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Submission requirements. The subdivider may file for primary approval
of a primary plat. This submission shall:
      (1)   Be made on forms available at the Town Office signed by the owner
and submitted with a fee payable to the town in accordance with the schedule of
fees adopted by town ordinance;
      (2)   Include indication of all land which the applicant proposes to
subdivide and all land immediately adjacent extending 300 feet therefrom, or of
that directly opposite thereto, extending 300 feet from the street frontage of
that opposite land, with the names of owners as shown in the Auditor’s office
showing the boundaries of the subdivision superimposed thereon;
      (3)   Be presented to the staff no later than the first day of the month
in which the primary plat is to be placed on the agenda of the Technical
Advisory Committee; and
      (4)   Be accompanied by the following: 2 full-size (24 × 36) copies of
the primary plat (to scale); 2 half-size (12 × 18) copies (to half-scale); and
two (2) PDF copies of all drawings bound into one electronic file.
   (B)   TAC review. Upon submission, the Administrator shall distribute copies
of the primary plat to the members of TAC, who shall review the plat at a
meeting on or near the second Wednesday of the month. The applicant, or a
representative, shall attend the TAC meeting. At that meeting, the applicant
shall receive comments from TAC members concerning possible changes or
alterations required in the primary plat.
   (C)   Plan Commission study session. Following attendance at the TAC
meeting, the applicant shall attend a Plan Commission study session as
scheduled by the Administrator. At that meeting, the applicant shall present
sufficient copies of the primary plat, as revised following the TAC meeting, to
the Commission. At that time, the applicant shall present the Administrator
with any revised plans, in the numbers, sizes and format outlined in division
(A)(4) above. The applicant shall briefly describe the proposal and receive
comments from the Commission and the staff. Following attendance at the study
session, the applicant may become eligible to request a public hearing,
pursuant to division (D) below.
   (D)   Request for public hearing.
      (1)   At a public meeting of the Plan Commission, an applicant shall
request that the Commission set a date for a public hearing to be held on the
primary plat. At the meeting, the applicant shall give a brief overview of the
proposal and confirm the following:
         (a)   All required documents and information have been filed with the
town, all fees have been paid, and all provisions of town code §
150.26(G) have been satisfied;
         (b)   Sufficient copies of all required drawings and plans have been
provided; and
         (c)   All revisions to the primary plat requested by the TAC and the
Plan Commission have been made and filed.
      (2)   Upon finding that subdivisions (D)(1)(a), (b), and (c) above have
been completed, the Plan Commission may grant the applicant a public hearing
for primary plat approval.
   (E)   Public hearing notification. The Commission shall conduct a public
hearing on the primary plat, and the hearing shall be in conformance with I.C.
5-3-1 and at the applicant’s expense. Prior to the public hearing, the
applicant shall file proofs of publication that the notices of public hearing
were published at least ten days prior to the public hearing. Interested
parties, as determined by statute and the Plan Commission, shall be notified at
least ten days in advance of the public hearing by certified mail. The
applicant shall file proof of notice by certified mail with the Administrator
prior to the public hearing.
   (F)   Approval of the primary plat. After the Commission has held a public
hearing upon the primary plat, the staff report, Technical Advisory Committee
recommendations, and testimony and exhibits submitted at the public hearing,
the applicant shall be advised of any required changes and/or additions. The
Commission shall, at a public meeting, grant primary approval, grant primary
approval with conditions, or disapprove the primary plat. Not later than ten
days after the Commission meeting, the Administrator shall notify the
subdivider in writing of the Commission’s action on the primary plat, giving
reasons for any disapproval. Primary approval by the Commission is subject to
review by certiorari. Secondary approval of a subdivision cannot occur at the
same meeting where the primary plat has been approved.
   (G)   Effective period of primary plat approval. Unless extended or phased
according to ordinance, the approval of a primary plat shall be effective for a
period of 12 months, at the end of which time secondary approval of the entire
subdivision must have been obtained and certified by the designated officials.
Any plats not receiving secondary approval within the time set forth herein
shall be null and void, and the developer shall be required to resubmit a new
application for primary approval subject to all the zoning restrictions and
subdivision regulations and procedures in effect at the time of resubmission.
Upon request of the applicant, the Commission, finding reasonable grounds, may
extend the primary approval of a plat 12 months beyond the expiration date.
(Ord. 27, § 3.20.20, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 126, passed 3-15-2005; Am. Ord.
191, passed 6-15-2010)
§ 155.047 APPROVAL OF ENGINEERING PLANS.
   (A)   Submission procedure and requirements. Before approval of the primary
plat, the applicant, if he or she wishes to proceed with the subdivision, shall
submit ten copies of the engineering plans prepared by a civil engineer or
surveyor registered in this state pursuant to §
155.031 of this code, and shall file with the Administrator a request to start
work on any improvements.
   (B)   Review process.  
      (1)   Two copies of the plans shall be referred to the County Highway
Department, the County Health Department or the common water or sanitary sewer
utility, the Natural Resources Conservation Service, the Town Engineer, and one
copy for the Administrator. Upon receipt of approved engineering plans the
applicant may proceed with the installation of improvements provided there is
approved surety in place for the cost of the improvements. In no event shall
secondary approval be given prior to approval of the engineering plans.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the required documents the Town Engineer shall
examine the plans and submit a written report to the Commission, taking either
no exception or exception to the plans, profiles, and specifications. In the
event the Town Engineer does not accept the plans, profiles, and
specifications, he or she shall state the reasons for disapproval in writing to
the Commission, and his or her report shall be recorded by the Commission.
   (C)   Installation of improvements. The installation of improvements shall
be inspected by the town and any other agency having statutory or
jurisdictional review authority. The inspections are required in all instances
regardless of whether the work is performed before or after secondary approval.
Failure to request inspection of work performed after the date of this chapter
and before secondary approval where applicable may be cause for denial of
secondary approval.
(Ord. 27, § 3.20.30, passed 4-16-1997)
§ 155.048 SECONDARY PLAT APPROVAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Submission requirements. Following primary approval and approval of
engineering plans, the applicant, if he or she wishes to proceed with the
subdivision, shall file with the staff a request for secondary approval of a
subdivision plat. The application shall:
      (1)   Be submitted on forms available at the Town Office and be submitted
with a fee payable to the town in accordance with the schedule of fees adopted
by town ordinance;
      (2)   Include the entire subdivision, or section thereof which derives
access from an existing state, county, or town roadway;
      (3)   Be accompanied by two printed copies and one PDF copy of the
secondary subdivision plat as described in this chapter unless additional
copies are required by the Zoning Administrator.;
      (4)   Comply with the chapter and the terms and conditions of primary
approval; and
      (5)   Be accompanied by the performance bond, if required, in a form
satisfactory to the Commission Attorney and in an amount established by the
Commission upon recommendation of the Town Engineer and guaranteeing the
completion of all required subdivision and off-site public improvements.
   (B)   Technical Advisory Committee review. Upon receipt of the application,
the secondary plat shall be reviewed by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC)
to determine conformity with this chapter.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the required documents the Town Engineer shall
examine the plans and submit a written report to the Commission, taking either
no exception or exception to the plans, profiles, and specifications. In the
event the Town Engineer does not accept the plans, profiles, and
specifications, he or she shall state the reasons for disapproval in writing to
the Commission, and his or her report shall be recorded by the Commission.
      (2)   TAC shall review the plat and register in writing any comments they
may have. These written comments shall be delivered to the Town Office by the
end of the month prior to the month for which Commission consideration is
requested. It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider or his or her agent
to deliver all required comments, reports, and/or recommendations within the
specified date requirements. Failure to have all required written comments
submitted by the stipulated deadline may delay Commission consideration.
   (C)   Determination of conformance for secondary plats. In order to be
recorded, a secondary plat shall be found to be in conformance with the primary
approval by the Commission at a public meeting. If the secondary subdivision
plat deviates from the primary plat that received primary approval, the
subdivision shall be resubmitted to the Commission at a public meeting for a
new primary approval. The subdivider submitting a secondary plat conforming to
the primary approval shall have the secondary plat reviewed by the Commission
at a public meeting. The subdivider shall request in writing Commission review
no later than the first day of the month preceding the month of the public
meeting at which he or she intends to have the secondary plat reviewed. The
Commission shall place the matter on its next regular meeting agenda provided
the application is submitted by the first day of the month preceding the month
of the regular Commission meeting. The staff shall review the proposal and
submit a written report to the Commission, and the Commission, at the public
meeting, shall grant secondary approval, continuance, or disapproval of the
secondary plat. If granted secondary approval, it shall be signed by the
designated officials. If not granted secondary approval, then the subdivider
shall be informed as to the insufficiency of his or her submission. Not later
than ten days after the Commission meeting, the Administrator shall notify the
subdivider in writing of the Commission’s action on the secondary plat.
   (D)   Preliminary approvals required. In no case shall a petitioner be
permitted to file an application for secondary approval prior to receiving
primary approval and approved engineering plans.
   (E)   Common water and sewage facilities. In instances where the subdivider
proposes to construct a common sewage treatment facility or a common water
supply system, or both, the Commission shall not give secondary approval until:
      (1)   The State Board of Health and the State Department of Environmental
Management give approval to the final engineering and construction plans for
the facility; and
      (2)   In the instance where a common sewage treatment facility is to be
constructed, the appropriate agencies have granted the subdivider or the
appropriate corporation a certificate of territorial jurisdiction. Furthermore,
where the subdivider proposes to construct a common sewage treatment facility
and/or a common water supply system, the Administrator, upon receipt of the
engineering plans, shall immediately deliver one copy of each of these plans to
the County Health Officer and Town Engineer.
   (F)   On-site sewage disposal. In instances where on-site sewage disposal
systems are proposed (septic tanks), the County Health Department requires that
all secondary plats submitted for approval shall have a plat prepared which
depicts all soil types as defined in §
155.013, contour lines, drainage easements, and utility easements on the
secondary plat. Non-compliance with this provision shall delay secondary
approval.
   (G)   Sanitary treatment plant. Where the sanitary treatment plant is to be
installed by the subdivider, all secondary plat approvals shall be granted by
the Commission subject to the condition that no building permits will be issued
until either:
      (1)   The sewage treatment facility is operative, as attested to by the
State Department of Environmental Management; or
      (2)   The subdivider has an adequate temporary sewage treatment facility
installed or an adequate proposal before the County Health Officer, who in turn
will notify the Administrator by letter that a certain number of building
permits may be authorized for issue based on temporary sewage treatment
installations or proposals.
   (H)   Phasing plats. Prior to granting secondary approval of a major
subdivision plat, the Commission may permit the plat to be divided into two or
more sections or phases and may impose conditions upon the filing of the
sections as deemed necessary to assure the orderly development of the plat. The
Commission may require that the performance bond be in an amount as will be
commensurate with the section or sections of the plat to be filed and may defer
the remaining required performance bond principal amount until the remaining
sections of the plat are offered for filing. These sections or phases must
contain at least ten lots, or 10% of the total number of lots contained in the
approved plat, whichever is less. The approval of all remaining sections not
filed with the staff shall automatically expire after five years of the date of
primary subdivision approval of the subdivision plat, unless the expiration
date has been extended.
(Ord. 27, § 3.20.40, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 191, passed 6-15-2010; Am. Ord.
41I, passed 2-15-2010)
§ 155.049 SIGNING AND RECORDING A PLAT.
   (A)   Signing a plat. When a bond is required, the designated officials
shall endorse secondary approval on the plat by signing the mylar after the
bond has been approved and all conditions of the primary approval have been
satisfied.
   (B)   Recording a plat.
      (1)   After the Plan Commission meeting, the subdivider shall submit to
the Administrator two tracings of the secondary plat of the subdivision on
drawing medium deemed satisfactory by the Commission for signature.
      (2)   The subdivider is responsible for the causation of the filing of
the secondary plat with the County Recorder within 90 days of the date of
signature by submitting the tracing mentioned above to the County Recorder and
returning a recorded copy to the Administrator and a paper copy of the recorded
plat for the Town Engineer.
      (3)   Costs for the above are to be borne by the subdivider, such as, for
County Auditor, County Recorder, reproduction, and the like. If the secondary
plat is not recorded within a 90-day period from the date of approval, the
secondary plat is void and the plat must again be submitted with a new filing
fee to the Commission for secondary approval.
      (4)   Building permits shall not be issued in any subdivision until the
secondary plat is approved by the Commission and until the plat and any
accompanying covenants are recorded in the office of the County Recorder and a
copy of the recorded mylar and any covenants are returned to the Administrator.
(Ord. 27, § 3.20.50, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 41I, passed 2-15-2010; Am. Ord.
234, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 155.050 DISAPPROVAL OF SECONDARY PLAT; GROUNDS.
   Disapproval of a secondary plat is warranted if:
   (A)   There are more than minor deviations from the primary plat, including
but not limited to:
      (1)   An increase in the number of lots;
      (2)   Greater than a 10% reduction in the number of lots; or
      (3)   Deviations which result in an increase in density.
   (B)   More than 12 months have elapsed since primary approval, or since the
developer filed and received an extension from the Commission;
   (C)   Engineering plans and details for the subdivision demonstrate that the
subdivision improvements do not comply with the town standards and the
requirements of this chapter;
   (D)   A change in a highway, pipeline, utility, or other major feature; or
   (E)   There were certain conditions attached to the approval of the primary
plat, and those conditions have not been fulfilled.
(Ord. 27, § 3.20.60, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 46, passed 4-15-1998)
MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
§ 155.055 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of a minor subdivision is to permit a simplified
procedure for certain subdivisions of land, as classified in §
155.29. Any resubdivision or replat that meets the conditions of minor
subdivisions shall also be considered under the terms of this section.
   (B)   Concept plan review. Prior to submitting any of the materials required
by this Ordinance, the subdivider or their representative is encouraged to
discuss the nature of the proposed land division with the Zoning Administrator.
The Zoning Administrator may provide the subdivider a preliminary opinion as to
the classification of the subdivision and shall inform the subdivider as to the
application and review procedure.
(Ord. 210B, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 155.056 PRIMARY PLAT.
   (A)   Application and fees. The application, plat and supporting material,
as listed in §§
155.061 and
155.062, shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator. The fee, as set under
the provisions of Ord. 41, as amended from time to time, shall be paid at the
time of the filing.
   (B)   Administrative review. The Zoning Administrator will review the
application for technical conformity with the standards specified in this
subchapter. The Zoning Administrator shall request a review of the plat by any
departments deemed necessary under the circumstances to review the plat
including, as applicable, but not limited to, the Town Engineer, County
Surveyor, Fire Department, Health Department, Water Department, and Sewer
department. Prior to the plat being considered by the Plan Commission, all
technical requirements required of the departments must be addressed. The
Zoning Administrator will send a copy of its written analysis of the proposal,
along with the recommendations from other departments, based upon compliance
with the requirements of this subchapter, to the Plan Commission and
subdivider.
   (C)   Plan Commission review. The Plan Commission shall conduct a public
hearing, upon due public notice, and review the primary plat. The Plan
Commission shall review the plat for compliance with this subchapter, and may,
by majority vote of the membership, take one of the following actions:
      (1)   Approve the application upon a determination that the application
complies with this subchapter; or
      (2)   Approve the application subject to certain modifications that would
bring the application into compliance; or
      (3)   Deny the application on the grounds that the application does not
comply with this subchapter.
   (D)   Compliance with standards of subchapter. The Plan Commission shall
determine whether the subdivision plat qualifies for primary approval under the
standards prescribed by this subchapter, including standards for:
      (1)   Minimum width, depth, and area of lots in the subdivision;
      (2)   Adequacy of existing public way widths, grades, and curves; and
      (3)   The availability of any necessary water, sewer, and municipal
services.
   (E)   Conditions of approval. As a condition of primary approval of a plat,
the Plan Commission may specify:
      (1)   Provision for water, sewage, and other utility services;
      (2)   Provision for lot size, number, and location;
      (3)   Provision for drainage design; and
      (4)   Provision for other services as specified in this subchapter.
   (F)   Action. The action taken by the Plan Commission and the reasons for
that action shall then be transmitted by the Zoning Administrator to the
subdivider.
(Ord. 210B, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 155.057 PRIMARY PLAT APPROVAL.
   Primary approval of a minor subdivision plat shall be valid for 120 days.
The approval shall become null and void if the plat does not meet all the
requirements for and receive secondary approval within that time.
(Ord. 210B, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 155.058 SECONDARY PLAT.
   (A)   Application. An application for secondary review may be filed with the
Zoning Administrator on forms provided, together with any supporting documents
to demonstrate that all conditions of primary approval have been satisfied.
   (B)   Determination of conformance. The Zoning Administrator will review the
application to determine if the subdivision complies with the primary approval
and all conditions. If the Zoning Administrator finds that the subdivision does
not comply, his or her decision can be appealed to the Plan Commission.
   (C)   Signature and seal. Secondary approval shall be given by the Zoning
Administrator after the Zoning Administrator has determined that the
subdivision complies with the conditions of approval of the Plan Commission and
all county or town departments.
(Ord. 210B, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 155.059 SECONDARY PLAT APPROVAL.
   Secondary approval of a minor subdivision plat shall be valid for one year
from the date of approval.
(Ord. 210B, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 155.060 RECORDING OF SECONDARY PLAT.
   If the secondary plat is not recorded at the Office of the Lake County
Recorder prior to the expiration date in §
155.059, the approval shall become null and void.
(Ord. 210B, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 155.061 MINOR SUBDIVISION PLAT PREPARATION.
   (A)   The plat shall be a reproducible drawing, no larger than 36 inches by
24 inches, at a scale of 50 feel to the inch or larger (1" = 50'). The
subdivider shall submit the number of prints of the plat specified by the
Zoning Administrator, containing the following information, prepared by a land
surveyor licensed to practice in Indiana.
1  General notes
2  Legal description of the minor subdivision
3  Graphic scale, north point and date
4  Tax certificate
5  Vicinity map
   Lot numbers, dimensions, location of monuments, and area for each lot. A
7  general notation shall be provided on the plat stating that the plat
   complies with zoning ordinance requirements for minimum lot area, width and
   frontage
8  Existing and proposed block and lot lines
9  Infrastructure
10 Location(s) of any existing building(s) street(s), driveway(s), sidewalk(s)
   or utility structure(s) on or adjoining the site
11 Right-of-way widths as established by the master thoroughfare plan
12 Available community facilities and utilities
   Easements (existing or proposed, including but not limited to utility
13 easements, drainage easements access easements, etc.), legal drains, and
   easements to be vacated by the subdivision with notations regarding the
   vacation
14 Natural features
15 Regulated drains
16 Subsurface conditions on the tract, location and results of soil percolation
   tests if individual sewerage disposal systems are proposed
17 Boundary lines of floodway and floodway fringe areas on each lot as scaled
   from the flood
18 Wetland boundaries as delineated by a professional scientist
   For subdivisions containing land with a slope of 10% or greater, as
19 determined by the soil survey of Lake County, the topography as shown on the
   USGS quad sheets. Topography may be shown on a separate print, provided it
   is shown at a scale no larger than 1" = 300'
20 Certifications
21 Land surveyor's certificate
22 Owner's certificate
23 Notary seal
24 Approval certificate
25 Public Works Department certificate when required
 
   (B)   Supporting documentation. Information required above may be provided
on separate sheet(s) or as supplemental documents along with requirements of §
155.062.
(Ord. 210B, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 155.062 MINOR SUBDIVISION SUPPORTING DATA.
   In addition to the plat, the subdivider shall submit the following:
   (A)   One executed application, as provided by the Zoning Administrator;
   (B)   The names and address of all interested parties;
   (C)   Evidence that a sewerage permit can be obtained from the County Health
Department or evidence that other acceptable sewer and/or water service is
available to all building lots in the subdivision;
   (D)   Erosion control plan to comply with the design standards of
Chapter 154 and the applicable laws of the State of Indiana;
   (E)   Drainage report, to comply with the design standards of §
155.112 and the applicable laws of the State of Indiana;
   (F)   If there is a parent tract remainder, a drawing showing the property
involved in the petition and the remainder. The drawing should include average
and percentage dimensions on the remainder;
   (G)   Any covenants or other restrictions applying to the subdivision that
will run with the land;
   (H)   Evidence that a driveway permit can be issued by the town or Lake
County Highway Department, as appropriate for any lot in a minor subdivision
that has its access from a public roadway.
(Ord. 210B, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 155.063 MINOR SUBDIVISION STANDARDS.
   All minor subdivisions and associated improvements shall conform to the
requirements and specifications of §§
155.075 through
155.097.
(Ord. 210B, passed 3-13-2018)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 155.075 BOND; RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Performance bonds.
      (1)   The secondary plat shall not be submitted to the Plan Commission
for approval until the following has been undertaken and accomplished:
         (a)   A performance bond for the town is executed by the subdivider
and approved by the Town Council. The performance bond shall be 100% of the
estimated costs of all infrastructure improvements, excluding sanitary lift
stations, which will be handled pursuant to division (A)(8) below, which this
chapter requires and which are shown on the approved plans and specifications
plus a 10% inflation add-on figure of the performance bond which this chapter
requires. The amount of the bond shall be fixed by the Town Engineer based on
costs which are current in the trades for like items of construction and
installation. All bonds shall be issued by a company licensed to do business in
this state. Performance bonds shall be for an initial period of two years, with
an option for successive renewal periods of not less than one year. The initial
performance bond shall specify that all improvements shall be installed within
a period of two years;
         (b)   Cash, or other acceptable negotiable securities to the benefit
of the Town Council, as approved and/or accepted, is posted with the Clerk-
Treasurer in lieu of a performance bond; or
         (c)   A combination of the above two alternatives may be utilized,
provided that all improvements are covered in the guarantees.
      (2)   Additionally, the performance bond shall insure that all snow
removal and other required maintenance of infrastructure improvements as
required by the then-existing ordinances of the town shall be rendered and
completed prior to any release of the bond.
      (3)   Prior to release of any performance bond and the establishment of a
maintenance bond all improvements are to be complete, determined to be in
acceptable condition (i.e. all roads repaired, sidewalks fixed, erosion in
place, sewers cleaned, curbs repaired, and the like) and the subdivider shall
provide the town with "as-built plans", which are to be approved by the Town
Engineering Consultant.
      (4)   Performance bonds may be partially released or extended in the sole
discretion of the Town Council based upon the recommendation of the Plan
Commission and the Town Engineer for good cause shown. No performance bond
shall be released to a value below 30% of the total estimated costs of all
improvements determined in division (A)(1)(a) herein. Any partial release or
extension of a performance bond shall permit the Town Council in its sole
discretion to adjust the amount of the bond or remaining bond based upon then
current costs together with the inflation factor referred to in division (A)(1)
(a). A request for a partial release of performance bond may be made no more
frequently than two times per calendar year.
      (5)   Prior to release or reduction of any performance bond or issuance
of any building permits, the developer shall cause to install all
infrastructure improvements including: storm sewer utilities, sanitary sewer
utilities, water utilities, gas utilities, electric utilities, cable utilities
and telephone utilities, and all appurtenances and services to the right-of-way
lines associated with these utilities, pavement sub-base, pavement underdrain,
geotextile, curb and gutter, and asphalt base. Prior to release or reduction of
any performance bond or issuance of any building permit, the developer shall
cause to have completed all grading items including detention basins, overland
flow paths, swales, ditches, lot grading, and rear yard grading. An established
stand of grass and or sod shall be established for all areas within and
adjacent to detention basins, overland flow paths, swales, ditches, and rear
yard swales, and all other areas must have temporary vegetation established
prior to the release of any performance bond or building permit.
      (6)   No building permits will be issued in a subdivision with delinquent
performance or maintenance bonds.
      (7)   Prior to release or reduction of any performance or maintenance
bond, all outstanding engineering or other fees or fines due the town shall be
paid in full.
      (8)   In a subdivision requiring sanitary sewer lift stations, the
subdivider shall post a separate performance bond for these improvements. Said
performance bonds shall be determined and approved in all other aspects, as
outlined by divisions (A)(1) through (7) above, except that a performance bond
for a sanitary sewer lift station shall not be reduced during the term of said
bond. During the term of any sanitary sewer lift station performance bond, the
subdivider must follow the provisions of Town Code §§
155.094 et seq., including the minimum standards sewage pumping stations,
originally established by adopted Town Enabling Ordinance. During the term of
any sanitary sewer lift station performance bond, including when the lift
station becomes operational prior to acceptance, the subdivider shall, at the
subdivider's expense, maintain the lift station. The subdivider shall retain
and employ a contractor to perform maintenance that has been approved by the
Town of Winfield Sewer Board and the subdivider or its maintenance company
shall provide monthly maintenance reports to the Sewer Board. Prior to the
release or reduction of any performance bond, the subdivider and/or developer
may seek to hand over the operation and maintenance of the sanitary sewer
collection and lift station facilities to the town once those infrastructure
improvements are fully installed, as determined by the town, and the town
completes the successful testing of all facilities; the testing shall be at the
town's discretion for approval. The transfer of the infrastructure improvements
approved will require the subdivider and/or developer to provide to the town a
three year maintenance bond covering the collection system and lift station;
such bond shall be in the amount of 100% of lift station infrastructure and
components.
   (B)   Maintenance bonds.
      (1)   A maintenance bond shall be effective for three years or until 70%
of the platted lots have been improved, whichever is greater, and run to the
Town Council in a form and content acceptable to the town. Maintenance bonds
must be accepted by the Town Council prior to or concurrent with the acceptance
of streets and other infrastructure improvements. The amount of the maintenance
bond shall be 15% of the estimated cost of the infrastructure improvements,
except for sanitary sewer infrastructure improvements as identified herein, and
for water main improvements. The amount shall be set by the Town Engineering
Consultant based upon the amount set for the performance bond as set forth in
Section (A)(1)(a) above. At the end of the effective period, in the event that
all of the accepted improvements are determined to be in satisfactory
condition, the maintenance bond shall be released by the Town Council. No
subdivider, builder, or developer may have a performance bond and maintenance
bond concurrently on a development or phase of a development.
      (2)   Maintenance bonds may be partially released or extended in the sole
discretion of the Town Council based upon the recommendation of the Plan
Commission and the Town Engineering Consultant for good cause shown. Any
partial release or extension of a maintenance bond may permit the Town Council
to adjust the amount of the bond or remaining bond based upon the formula
provided in division (B)(1) above. A request for a partial release of a
maintenance bond may be made no more frequently than two times per calendar
year.
      (3)   A separate maintenance bond shall be posted for all sanitary sewer
lift stations, in a manner and form outlined in division (B)(1) above, except
that the amount of said maintenance bond shall be in the amount of 100% of the
estimated cost of the sanitary sewer lift station structural and mechanical
improvements, but not including such site preparation costs as earthwork or
excavation. During the term of any sanitary sewer lift station maintenance
bond, the subdivider must, at the subdivider's expense, maintain the lift
station. The subdivider shall retain and employ a contractor to perform
maintenance that has been approved by the Winfield Sewer Board and the
subdivider or its maintenance company shall provide monthly maintenance reports
to the Winfield Sewer Board.
   (C)   Temporary improvements. The applicant shall build and pay for all
costs of temporary public improvements required by the Commission and shall
maintain same for the duration of the performance bonds. The performance bonds
for the subdivision shall include coverage of temporary improvements.
   (D)   Cost of public improvements. All required public improvements shall be
made by the subdivider, at his or her expense without reimbursement by the
town, unless sharing of expenses is agreed upon by the town.
   (E)   Failure to complete public improvements. In those cases where the
required public improvements have not been installed within the terms of the
performance bond, the Council may declare the bond to be in default and cause
all public improvements to be installed according to primary approval and
engineering plan approval regardless of the extent of the building development
at the time the bond is declared to be in default.
   (F)    In the event that a subdivision development is presented to the town
in multiple phases, the town reserves the right to reevaluate the adequacy of
the capacities of sanitary sewer infrastructure improvements at each phase of
the development. Any expenses the town determines necessary to the sewage
infrastructure to accommodate future expansion shall be borne by the developer.
(Ord. 27, §§ 4.10.10 - 4.10.50, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 46, passed 4-15-
1998; Am. Ord. 97, passed 12-18-2001; Am. Ord. 172, passed 6-17-2008; Am. Ord.
41I, passed 2-15-2010; Am. Ord. 27A, passed 7-23-2013)
§ 155.076 CONSTRUCTION; INSPECTION; MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Construction and inspection.
      (1)   When the subdivider begins construction of the subdivision
improvements before the Plan Commission has approved the secondary plat,
written authorization shall be obtained from the town or its designated staff
or consultant. Where utility lines or cables are to be installed in the
proposed street right-of-way, permission in writing shall be obtained from the
Town Engineering Consultant. In any event, no work shall begin before the
primary plan and engineering plan have been approved.
      (2)   When construction of improvements is started based upon primary
approval, all improvements shall be completed within one year from the date of
that approval. In the event that unusual circumstances develop, or in the event
that the scope of work is unusually large, the Commission may grant an
extension for a period of one year.
      (3)   During the course of construction of the improvements, the
subdivider shall be required to notify the Town Engineer at least 24 hours
before each of the following operations, in order that the Town Engineering
Consultant may make required inspections:
         (a)   Before base material is deposited in place, for inspection of
all street subgrades, especially areas where backfilling was placed over
subterranean construction, and curb and gutter construction. Prior to this
inspection, all required underground utility construction (storm, sewer,
sanitary sewer, and water main) beneath the roadway and within five feet of the
outside of the curb must be complete;
         (b)   Before bituminous topping is placed on the base material, for
inspection of the base construction;
         (c)   Prior to mobilizing equipment on site;
         (d)   Prior to manhole vacuum, sewer deflection and sewer and force
main leakage tests, in accordance with 327 I.A.C. 3-6-16 and 327 I.A.C. 3-6-19;
and
         (e)   Prior to start-up of all lift-station facilities.
      (4)   The subdivider shall pay a fee for all required inspections. Fees
shall be payable to the town in accordance with the schedule of fees adopted by
town ordinance provisions, as amended from time to time.
      (5)   Before the Town Council accepts any infrastructure improvements,
all inspection fees as required by this chapter shall be paid.
   (B)   Maintenance of public improvements.
      (1)   The subdivider shall be required to maintain all public
improvements on the individual subdivided lots, and provide for snow removal on
streets until acceptance of those public improvements by the town.
      (2)   The subdivider shall be required to post a maintenance bond in
accordance with §
155.075(B). In addition to any other required videos, the subdivider shall have
a video inspection made of all new sanitary sewer and stormwater sewer lines no
earlier than six months prior to expiration of any maintenance bond. The video
inspection shall verify that the sewers were installed at the proper grade with
no sags or ponding. The sewer video shall log the exact location of all
laterals to the nearest foot. Two copies of the sewer video shall be provided
to the town for review and approval prior to the release of any maintenance
bond.
(Ord. 27, §§ 4.20.10 - 4.20.20, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 157, passed 5-29-
2007; Am. Ord. 27A, passed 7-23-2013; Am. Ord. 332, passed 5-24-2022) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 155.077 ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Final acceptance of all infrastructure improvements is the
responsibility of the Town Council. Before the Town Council accepts any
infrastructure improvements, a maintenance bond shall have been approved by the
Town Council, in conformance with the provisions under this subchapter.
   (B)   Improvements such as common water supply plant and appurtenances, and
detention and retention ponds, are not accepted by the town and thus never
become the obligations of the town to maintain. Also, stormwater drainage
systems, except for those which lie in a designated public right-of-way or
easement to the benefit of town, shall not be accepted by the town, nor become
the obligations of the town to maintain; provided, however, the developer shall
include in his or her covenants proper provisions that allow each property
owner to be assessed a pro rata share for any maintenance expense incurred by
the town, or another public body, to maintain all stormwater drainage systems
and appurtenances including but not limited to retention areas, swales,
detention and/or retention ponds, and the like. A covenant restriction
acceptable to the developer and the town imposing the above obligations upon
the owners of the property to maintain the drainage systems shall be determined
by the Plan Commission. The town shall have the right to maintain and assess
the maintenance expenses to the owners when necessary maintenance is not
performed in a timely manner. In order to undertake future maintenance, if
necessary by the town, the developer shall provide access easements for that
purpose. The location and dimension of these easements shall be designated on
the plat in the same manner as utility easements.
   (C)   When the subdivider has completed construction of the improvements,
the subdivider shall notify the Administrator by letter (in four copies) of
this fact, and formally request a final inspection by the town inspecting
officials. In this letter, the subdivider shall briefly describe all the
improvements and shall enclose four copies of the subdivision plan which shows
these improvements. No later than 21 days after receipt of this letter by the
Administrator, weather conditions permitting, the town inspecting officials
shall make their inspections.
   (D)   Before acceptance of any infrastructure improvements, the
Administrator and the Town Engineering Consultant shall inspect these
improvements as described above and submit a report to the Town Council on the
condition of the improvements and a recommendation for action thereon.
   (E)   No later than 21 days after the final inspection of the infrastructure
improvements, the subdivider shall be notified by the Administrator in writing
of the results of the inspection.
   (F)   The town inspecting officials shall, no later than six weeks before
the expiration date of the maintenance bond, inspect the subdivision streets
and improvements to ascertain their conditions. The subdivider shall be
notified by letter, no later than five weeks before the same expiration date,
as to the results of the inspection. In the event that there are conditions
concerning the improvements which the town inspecting officials find
unsatisfactory, the subdivider shall be provided the opportunity to correct
them.
   (G)   No later than 14 days prior to the expiration date of the maintenance
bond, the Administrator shall relate by letter to the Town Council, the Town
Attorney, and the subdivider, the condition the town inspecting officials find
the streets and improvements in and, consequently, their recommendations
regarding the release of the maintenance bond.
   (H)   Before the final inspection is requested, the subdivider shall cause
all utility improvements to be installed, including but not limited to all
water, sewage, telephone, gas, and electric utilities.
(Ord. 27, § 4.30.10, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 27A, passed 7-23-2013)
§ 155.078 AS-BUILT PLANS.
   After completion of all public improvements and prior to the release of the
maintenance bond on the improvements, the subdivider shall provide "as built"
plans as follows:
   (A)   "As built drawings" will be required on all improvements that are to
be dedicated to, and accepted by, the town for inclusion in the public
infrastructure; or will in any way impact any part of the existing public
infrastructure.
   (B)   "As built" or record drawings of any sewer construction, sanitary or
storm, in the town shall be provided to the Town Engineering Consultant and
Town Zoning Administrator upon completion of and prior to the town's acceptance
of the project. As-built drawings shall be submitted on plan and profile sheets
in digital format (AutoCAD and PDF formats), as well as typical hard copies
(24" x 36" inch formats). Three hard copies shall be submitted to the town.
   (C)   Requirements for "as-built" or record drawings are as follows:
      (1)   Each sheet must be signed and sealed by a licensed professional
engineer and/or licensed professional land surveyor.
      (2)   All elevations given on as-builts shall be per NAVD 88 (North
American Vertical Datum).
      (3)   Invert and casting elevations of all structures (i.e., manholes,
catch basins, inlets, and the like) shall be provided. Casting elevations on
catch basins and inlets shall be shown at the flow line.
      (4)   The percent of line slope between structures, and/or between
structures and stubs shall be shown.
      (5)   The horizontal location of sanitary laterals, storm laterals and/or
taps shall be indicated from the downstream manhole.
      (6)   The length of the sanitary laterals and/or storm sewer laterals
and/or taps from mainline sewer including the elevation of the laterals at the
property/right-of-way line and offsets shall be shown.
      (7)   The location of all structures (i.e., manholes, catch basins,
inlets, and the like) shall be shown by stationing.
      (8)   The locations and sizes of other existing utilities, including but
not limited to communications and signals, fiberoptic, telephone, electric, gas
and water shall be shown.
      (9)   The locations of all right-of-way, easement and property lines
shall be provided. When service taps have been installed, all property
information shall be shown (i.e., lot #, address, property owner name).
      (10)   If horizontal location of sewer is per plan, place a check mark
(√) followed by the words "per plan" next to structure on plan section of
sheet. Example: MH #1 (√) per plan STA 1 + 00/10 RT, Line 'M'.
      (11)   If vertical location of sewer is per plan, place a check mark (√)
followed by the words "per plan" next to invert elevation of structure
indicated on profile section of sheet.
      (12)   If line slope of sewer is per plan, place a check mark (√)
followed by the words "per plan" next to line slope information of profile
section of sheet. Example: 360 LFT - 30 sanitary sewer @ 1.00% per plan.
      (13)   Any changes on horizontal and vertical location of sewers and any
changes of percent of line slope must be shown on plan and profile sections.
      (14)   All information on "as-built" or record drawings must be neat,
concise, and legible.
      (15)   Indicate the composition of pipe (i.e., clay, RCP, DIP, and the
like) on profile section of sheet for each run. A "run" being a section of pipe
between structures or between structures and stubs.
      (16)   Any other information or data requested by town personnel must be
included if requested.
(Ord. 27, § 4.30.20, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 172, passed 6-17-2010; Am. Ord.
191, passed 6-15-2010; Am. Ord. 41I, passed 2-15-2010; Am. Ord. 27A, passed 7-
23-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.079 SURVEY MONUMENTS.
   All monuments shall be installed pursuant to Title 865 IAC Rule 12.
(Ord. 27, § 4.30.30, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 210, passed 9-11-2012)
MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 155.090 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   All technical and design standards contained in this chapter shall be
considered the minimum standards for development in the town. The Standard
Construction Details set forth in Appendix C are adopted and incorporated
herein as the Standard Construction Detail requirements for the construction
set forth in said Appendix C. All references to INDOT-SS shall mean Indiana
Department of Transportation Standard Specifications and Supplementary
Conditions, latest edition.
(Ord. 27, § 5.10.10, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 157, passed 5-29-2007)
§ 155.091 STREETS.
   Streets, curbs, and traffic-control devices have the following minimum
standards:
   (A)   Alignment of the centerlines of intersecting streets shall be as close
to right angles as possible. The simultaneous intersection of streets resulting
in traffic from more than four directions is prohibited. The minimum radius of
horizontal curvature shall be 500 feet for arterial, commercial, and industrial
streets, and 250 feet for collector and residential streets.
   (B)   Rights-of-way for residential and collector streets shall be not less
than 60 feet in width. For commercial, arterial, and industrial streets, the
minimum right-of-way shall be not less than 80 feet in width, but where they
form continuations of existing streets or thoroughfares, their widths shall be
the same as those with which they form continuations.
   (C)   No two streets shall intersect at an angle of less than 70 degrees nor
more than 110 degrees except with the special written consent of the
Commission.
   (D)   All streets shall connect to existing streets with a minimum of jogs
and angles, and no street or thoroughfare shall have an overall right-of-way of
less than 60 feet, of which there shall not be less than 30 feet between the
back of curbs. Enforcement of parking restrictions shall commence upon
construction of any structure within the development. The Plan Commission may
require roads of 36 feet wide between the back of curbs on primary
thoroughfares through a subdivision or development when deemed appropriate by
the Plan Commission upon advisory review recommendation of the Town Engineer.
   (E)   Acceleration or deceleration lanes and passing blisters, as approved
by the Town Engineer, shall be required of the developer at all intersections
with arterial streets or as otherwise determined by the Town Engineer.
   (F)   Street curb intersections shall be rounded by a curve, the minimum
radius of which shall be 15 feet, except where existing improvements interfere,
and the Zoning Administrator concurs.
   (G)   Dead-end, also called cul-de-sac, streets and alleys are specifically
prohibited except in cases where topography or existing development of the land
leaves no other alternative, in which event dead-end streets shall not be more
than 300 feet in length. They shall terminate in a circular right-of-way with a
minimum radius 75 feet and a paved turning circle with a minimum radius of 60
feet. No islands shall be allowed within cul-de-sacs.
   (H)   Streets which require ingress and egress over lands of adjoining
property owners shall require proper written easements or other written
agreements showing consents by those adjoining owners, which are properly
recorded in the Lake County Recorder's Office. However, the layout of proposed
streets should, to the greatest extent possible, provide for connectivity with
adjoining subdivisions or take into consideration future development of
adjoining properties.
   (I)   All street naming and numbering shall follow the Lake County, Indiana,
grid system as recommended by the Fire Department or service.
   (J)   Regarding storm drains and sewers, the storm drainage system shall be
designed in conformance with §§
155.110 through
155.116 of this code.
   (K)   All newly developed streets or streets proposed for improvement shall
be constructed with concrete curbs and gutters per town standards.
   (L)   Concrete pavements may be constructed as an alternative to asphalt
with the approval of the Commission. Concrete pavement shall be constructed in
accordance with the AASHTO Guide for Design of Pavement Structures. The soil
testing results and design calculations prepared for this design method shall
be submitted for review with the detailed street plans.
   (M)   Standard street name signs shall be provided and installed by the
subdivider or developer at all street intersections, at the direction of the
Commission. Location of street name signs shall be provided on the construction
drawings.
   (N)   Traffic-control signs shall be provided and installed by the
subdivider or developer. Traffic signs shall conform to the latest edition of
the state Manual of Uniform Traffic-Control Devices. The Zoning Administrator
will indicate the type and location of the required signs. Location of traffic
control signs shall be provided on the construction drawings.
   (O)   A traffic impact study shall be required for all major subdivisions.
The study shall be conducted in accordance with the Indiana Department of
Transportation's Applicant's Guide to Traffic Impact Studies, latest edition.
The study shall be provided to the Town Engineer for review prior to primary
approval of the subdivision.
   (P)   Street name signs shall be installed upon the commencement of
construction of any structure within a subdivision. Temporary signs may be used
until such time as the first occupancy permit is issued, at which time
permanent signs shall be installed. All street naming signs (other than
temporary signs) shall be six inches in height, a minimum of 30 inches in
length, double sided with words, with a forest green background with reflective
white text on both sides with a letter and number size of three inches and a
four-inch reflective town seal. In addition, street name signs shall conform to
the requirements of the latest editions of the Indiana Manual of Uniform
Traffic Control Devices, Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD) and
the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA).
   (Q)   Addresses which are clearly visible from the street shall be placed on
any structure while under construction.
   (R)   No building permit shall be issued for construction within a
subdivision until such time as an asphalt binder has been installed on the
street where the structure is located and on all access streets necessary to
get to the structure.
   (S)   All secondary plat documents shall include lot numbers, street
addresses for each lot, street, names, and the location of all fire hydrants.
(Ord. 27, § 5.10.20, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 92, passed 7-17-2001; Am. Ord.
157, passed 5-29-2007; Am. Ord. 210, passed 9-11-2012; Am. Ord. 210-A, passed
12-10-2015)
§ 155.092 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Sidewalks are required in residential subdivisions that have a density
of 1. or higher and for all businesses who require review under §
156.043 in all commercial zone districts under this chapter.
   (B)   Sidewalks shall conform to the following standards.
      (1)   Walks. Concrete walks shall be constructed parallel to and 0.5-foot
off the front lot line of all lots proposed for improvement. The walk shall be
not less than five feet wide and four inches thick constructed of non-
reinforced concrete on a shaped and compacted subgrade. The surface shall be
broom finished and have a transverse slope of one-quarter inch per foot for
drainage. A tooled or sawed contraction joint shall be provided every five feet
of length and an expansion joint shall be installed every 50 feet of length and
at every projection (power pole, manhole casting, and the like) through the
walk. Expansion joints shall be filled with a one-half inch thick, resilient,
rot-resistant filler material. The maximum longitudinal slope of a walk shall
be 8% where the Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42 USC 12101 et seq.
applies and 16% elsewhere.
      (2)   Sidewalk ramps. Handicap accessible ramps shall be constructed at
both ends of every crosswalk on all street intersections. The ramp shall be
four inches thick constructed of Class A concrete with broom finish or equal
non-skid surface. The gutter section shall be maintained through the ramp area
and the curb section depressed. The ramp shall be constructed in accordance
with the latest editions of the INDOT Standard Specifications and the Americans
with Disabilities Act Standards for Accessible Design.
      (3)   Existing conditions. The applicant shall make every effort to blend
the new work with the existing conditions. The slope and alignment of walks and
curbs shall be considered in the design layout to provide as continuous and
uniform a line and grade as possible and be approved by the Town Engineer.
(Ord. 27, § 5.10.30, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 92, passed 7-17-2001; Am. Ord.
210, passed 9-11-2012)
§ 155.093 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements shall be provided for utilities, sewers, and storm drains.
These easements shall generally be located along rear or side lot lines, in
which case a minimum width of 30 feet, 15 feet on each side of the lot line,
shall be provided. If this type of an easement is contained within a lot, the
minimum width shall be 30 feet. Easements shall be laid out so that proper
continuity may be had for utilities from block to block and within a block.
   (B)   Every plat shall contain a statement to the effect that all utility
easements as dedicated on the face of the plat shall be kept free of all
permanent structures, and the removal of any obstruction by a utility company
shall in no way obligate the utility company in damages or to restore the
obstruction to its original form.
(Ord. 27, § 5.10.40, passed 4-16-1997)
§ 155.094 SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   The developer or its' engineer(s), prior to any request for permitting
of such, shall meet with town engineers in technical advisory committee session
(s) to discuss plans for the design and installation of any sewage collection
system and any associated lift station whose effluent is intended to be
processed at the town sewage plant. The approval of the Town Sanitary Board
shall be required for the design of electrical and mechanical components prior
to the developer filing for and receiving town permits, the issuance of which
would constitute permission for the installation of a sewage collection
facility including any necessary lift station(s). Town permission for
installation does not obviate the need for permitting from other agencies.
   (B)   It is the intent of this standard that the developer, the developer's
engineer, town officials and staff and the Town Engineer would develop a
collection system, lift station and force main design to deliver an
exceptionally reliable system configured with mechanical and electrical
equipment capable of delivering the lowest practicable operation and
maintenance cost.
   (C)   At a minimum the collection system design shall include:
      (1)   Design consistent with the requirement of 327 I.A.C. Article 3.
      (2)   Acceptance testing after construction with Town Engineer
observation, including mandrel testing, manhole vacuum testing in accordance
with ASTM C-1244 and sewer air pressure testing. Detailed testing protocols
will be provided.
      (3)   Manhole castings shall include closed pickhole gasketed covers.
External chimney seals shall be provided.
   (D)   At a minimum the lift station design shall be a design consistent with
the requirement of 327 I.A.C. Article 3.
   (E)   Acceptable site and access requirements:
      (1)   This facility shall be located in such a manner that it is
accessible by means of a 15 foot wide concrete paved drive which conforms to
the town's standards and connects to a public street right-of-way. The facility
shall be placed on a parcel of land, dedicated to the town, having sufficient
area for the facility but in no case have less than 1,200 square feet (a parcel
size of no less than 30' x 40'). A site plan of the lift station parcel and its
improvements shall be submitted to and approved by the town.
      (2)   A fiberglass enclosure. Fiberglass enclosure shall be of the hinged
tip-up design. The enclosure shall be large enough to accommodate inside
storage of all specified equipment, including generator, transfer switch, and
convenience accessories.
      (3)   Landscaped to be unobtrusive. The necessity of a fence to be
determined by Town Engineer.
      (4)   Redundant submersible pumps - each able to carry the initial and
eventual load of the area to be served. Each pump shall be designed as a
completely submersible wastewater pump capable of pumping raw unscreened
domestic sewage consisting of water, fibrous material, heavy sludge, and
spherical solids at least three inches in diameter.
      (5)   Pumps to be installed and operated on a rail guide system which
allows pumps to be removed without entering the wet well; design must be
approved by Town Engineer.
      (6)   Stand by generator/system monitoring incoming power and capable of
the automatic transfer to generator power including the starting and running of
each pump. The engine shall be stationary, liquid cooled, spark ignited for
natural gas fuel.
      (7)   Concrete wet well. The wet well shall be constructed of pre-cast,
reinforced concrete sections. The wet well volume shall be based on design
average flow and a filling time to exceed 30 minutes.
      (8)   Telemetry and alarm system. The manufacturer shall provide a
continuous 24 hour alarm monitoring system to monitor the status of the pumps
and generator. The system shall relay information to a web site, where it can
be exclusively accessed by the user. The system shall also have the capability
of instantaneous alarm notification through telephone calling, e-mails, pages,
or any combination of those items.
      (9)   Station piping and bypass. The station valving and piping shall be
housed within the fiberglass structure. The pump station shall include a pump
bypass system. The purpose of this system is to facilitate the connection of an
emergency pump to a fixed suction and fixed by-pass force-main connection at
the lift station.
      (10)   Approved specifications, vendor and equipment list to be provided
by town; equipment components must be approved by town engineers.
      (11)   Rigorous acceptance testing of all lift station systems with Town
Engineer observation.
(Ord. 27, § 5.20.10, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 129, passed 10-18-2005; Am.
Ord. 157, passed 5-29-2007; Am. Ord. 210, passed 9-11-2012; Am. Ord. 129A,
passed 7-23-2013)
§ 155.095 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   The developer shall install or cause to be installed a water supply
system for the subdivision connected to a public water supply in conformance
with all applicable federal, state, and local regulations.
   (B)   A private well may be approved for the parcels in the subdivision. A
private well may be developed in accordance with AWWA standard A-100. All
private wells must be approved by the County Board of Health and the State
Board of Health.
   (C)   Indiana Administrative Code (IAC) 8-3.2, Technical Standards for Water
Mains is incorporated by reference into this subdivision control ordinance and
shall be followed in all developments.
   (D)   Fire hydrants shall be installed in all developments no more than 450
feet apart in residential developments, 350 feet apart in commercial
developments, and 600 feet apart for off-site spacing.
   (E)   All fire hydrants that are to be repaired, replaced, or installed new
shall have a 5-inch Storz Pumper Port, a 5-1/4-inch main valve opening, two 2-
1/2-inch NST hose threads (one on each side), 1-1/2inch pentagon operating nut,
and open counter-clock wise.
(Ord. 27, § 5.30.10, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 157, passed 5-29-2007; Am. Ord.
172, passed 6-17-2010)
§ 155.096 CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS.
   All materials used for construction of public facilities shall be new, of
first-class quality, meeting or exceeding the standard or specification cited
below, or equivalent as determined by the Town Engineer.
   (A)   Aggregates. Fine and coarse aggregates used in concrete or asphalt
shall comply with INDOT-SS, subsection 903.
   (B)   B-borrow or special borrow for structures. Fill and backfill material
around and under structures shall comply with INDOT-SS, subsection 211.
   (C)   Concrete. Materials and procedures used in preparing concrete mixes
shall comply with INDOT-SS articles 702.01 through 702.11, except that fly ash
may only be used with written approval of the Town Engineer.
   (D)   Asphalt products. Materials and procedures for preparing asphalt mixes
shall comply with INDOT-SS, subsection 401.
      (1)   HAE, hot asphalt emulsion, pavement materials shall comply with
INDOT-SS, subsection 402.
      (2)   HAC, hot asphalt concrete, pavement materials shall comply with
INDOT-SS, subsection 403.
      (3)   Prime coat shall comply with INDOT-SS, subsection 408.
      (4)   Tack coat shall comply with INDOT-SS, subsection 409.
   (E)   Sewer and drainage pipe.
      (1)   Reinforced concrete pipe shall comply with ASTM specification C-76
and the joints with C-443. Reinforced concrete arch pipe shall comply with ASTM
specification C-506 and reinforced concrete elliptical pipe with C-507.
      (2)   Precast concrete manhole sections shall comply with ASTM
specification C-478. Manholes shall have a minimum inside diameter of 48 inches
and have a medium or heavy duty frame and lid. A precast flat top section shall
be provided if the manhole is less than six feet deep, and an eccentric cone
section if the manhole is six feet or more in depth.
      (3)   Precast concrete utility vaults shall comply with ASTM
specification C-858.
      (4)   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) gravity sewer pipe shall comply with ASTM
specification D-3034 with a minimum rating of SDR 35 (standard dimension
ratio). The joints shall comply with ASTM specification D-3212.
      (5)   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pressure pipe from four to 12-inch
diameter shall comply with AWWA standard C-900 and from 14- to 36-inch diameter
shall comply with AWWA standard C-905.
      (6)   Ductile iron pipe shall comply with AWWA specification C-151 and
joints and gaskets with C-1111. All exposed ductile iron pipe shall be flanged,
while buried ductile iron pipe may be push-on or mechanical joint.
      (7)   Corrugated metal pipe for culverts shall be fabricated of hot-dip
galvanized sheet steel conforming to ASTM specification A-444. Corrugated metal
pipe and pipe arches shall comply with INDOT-SS article 907.02.
      (8)   All storm sewers located beneath a roadway, or within five feet of
a roadway, as measured from the back of the curb shall be constructed with
reinforced concrete pipe in accordance with ASTM C-76.
   (F)   Storm drains.
      (1)   Storm drains, inlets, and catch basins shall be constructed of
precast concrete components, similar in construction to precast manholes.
      (2)   Each storm drain shall have a heavy duty cast or ductile iron frame
and grate of appropriate shape for its location. The storm inlet frame and
grate shall be constructed with bicycle safe openings per the latest edition of
the INDOT Standard Specifications and have sufficient open area to accept the
runoff calculated for its collection area in the drainage plan.
   (G)   Joint filler. Joint filler for expansion joints in concrete walk and
curb shall comply with INDOT-SS article 905.01.
   (H)   Water supply pipe.
      (1)   Ductile iron pipe (for water supply mains) shall comply with AWWA
specification C-151 with cement mortar lining conforming to AWWA C-104 and
joints and gaskets conforming to AWWA C-111. Fittings for ductile iron pipe
shall comply with AWWA specification C-110 or C-153.
      (2)   Type K copper tubing for water service lines shall be soft temper
conforming to ASTM specification B-88 with forged bronze compression fittings
conforming to ANSI B 16.22.
      (3)   High density polyethylene (HDPE) pipe shall be ductile iron pipe
outside diameter, and shall meet the requirements of AWWA C-906. All HDPE pipe
shall be at least DR 11 designation rated for a minimum water working pressure
of 160 psi. All fittings in HDPE water main shall be mechanical joint ductile
iron fittings. Connections to HDPE shall be made using EBAA iron restrained
adapters manufactured specifically for connecting HDPE and ductile iron pipe or
butt fused HDPE/ductile iron restrained adapters rated for a minimum pressure
of 160 psi.
   (I)   Water valves. Valves for water supply shall conform to the AWWA
standards listed below.
      (1)   All water line valves of eight inches and greater diameter shall be
resilient seated butterfly valves in accordance with AWWA C-504.
      (2)   All water line valves less than eight inches in diameter, and
valves used on tapping tees, shall be resilient seated gate valves conforming
to AWWA C-509.
      (3)   Fittings for service lines shall comply with AWWA C-800.J.
(Ord. 27, § 5.40.10, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 85, passed 10-17-2000; Am. Ord.
157, passed 5-29-2007; Am. Ord. 210, passed 9-11-2012)
§ 155.097 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Storm drains and sewers.
      (1)   Manholes, inlets, and catch basins shall be constructed and
installed in accordance with INDOT-SS, subsection 720.
      (2)   Culverts and storm sewers shall be installed in accordance with
INDOT-SS, subsection 715.
      (3)   Jacked pipe shall be installed in accordance with INDOT-SS,
subsection 717.
      (4)   Arches and pipe arches shall be installed in accordance with INDOT-
SS, subsection 717.
   (B)   Sanitary sewers.
      (1)   Manholes shall be constructed and installed in accordance with
INDOT-SS, subsection 720.
      (2)   Sanitary sewers shall be installed in accordance with IAC 3-6,
Technical Standards for Sanitary Collection Systems.
      (3)   Jacked pipe shall be installed in accordance with INDOT-SS,
subsection 717.
   (C)   Water supply.
      (1)   All pipe, valves, and fittings for water supply shall be handled,
stored, and installed according to the manufacturer’s instructions when
specific standards are not identified. The final water supply installation
shall be disinfected in accordance with AWWA specification 0-651.
      (2)   Ductile iron pipe and appurtenances shall be installed in
accordance with AWWA specification C-600.
      (3)    Service lines for water supply shall be installed in accordance
with AWWA specification C-800.
      (4)   Private wells for water supply shall be disinfected before being
placed in service in accordance with AWWA specification C-654.
   (D)   Subgrade preparation.
      (1)   In cut sections, the subgrade shall be prepared in accordance with
the applicable paragraphs 207.01 through 207.05 of INDOT-SS, subsection 207.
      (2)   In fill sections, the subgrade shall be prepared in accordance with
the applicable paragraph 207.06 of INDOT-SS, subsection 207.
   (E)   Curb and gutter. Integral concrete curbs and concrete curb and gutter
shall be constructed in accordance with INDOT-SS, subsection 605.
   (F)   Asphalt pavement. Asphalt or bituminous pavements shall be constructed
in accordance with the applicable subsections of INDOT-SS, Section 400.
   (G)   Concrete pavement. Concrete pavement shall be constructed in
accordance with the applicable subsections of INDOT-SS, Section 500.
   (H)   Underground utilities.
      (1)   Prior to preparing and seeking inspection on the subgrade, all
underground utilities (storm sewer, sanitary sewer, and water main) that fall
under, or within five feet of the roadway shall either be installed or a casing
pipe placed for future installation of the utility. No placement of utilities
as outlined above is permitted by open cut after chemical modification of
subbase, permanent stone base, or asphalt base material has been placed.
      (2)   All subdivisions consisting of up to two lots, principal
structures, or principal uses shall have underground utility services from the
distribution point to the structure.
      (3)   All subdivisions consisting of more than two lots, dwelling units,
or structures shall provide both an underground utility distribution network
and individual services to each building.
      (4)   All subdivisions shall have utilities installed underground. There
shall be no aerial suspension of utility lines.
   (I)   Inspections.
      (1)   The Town Engineer may, when he or she deems necessary, inspect and
examine the construction, erection, installation, or building of any public
facility, and the Town Engineer may require that samples of materials used or
intended to be used in those public facilities be furnished to his or her
office for testing purposes. Testing shall be done by a recognized independent
testing laboratory, the expense being borne by the contractor.
      (2)   Upon completion of the construction project, notice shall be given
to the Zoning Administrator, who shall have the Town Engineer make a final
inspection thereof. Upon completion of the final inspection, the Town Engineer
will notify the Council whether or not construction has been performed in
accordance with the plans and specifications approved by the Commission.
(Ord. 27, §§ 5.50.10 - 5.50.90, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 157, passed 5-29-
2007; Am. Ord. 333, passed 5-24-2022)
DRAINAGE; DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 155.110 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter, including guidelines and criteria, does not provide
solutions to all drainage problems, nor is the Engineer restricted to these
designs or procedures exclusively. Although the policies as stated will hold
true for most development work in this area, the town realizes that there may
be some exceptions to the policies or the criteria which, on individual
projects, could involve special or unusual drainage design problems that should
be reviewed prior to completing the drainage plans.
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is to diminish threats to public
health, safety, and welfare caused by runoff of excessive stormwater from new
development and redevelopment, and to reduce the pollutants in stormwater
runoff. This excessive stormwater could result in the inundation of damageable
properties, the erosion and destabilization of downstream channels, and the
pollution of valuable stream and lake resources. The cause of increases in
stormwater runoff quantity is the development and improvement of land, and thus
this chapter regulates these activities to prevent adverse impacts.
   (C)   The policy of the town shall be:
      (1)   All information necessary will be submitted to the town to
determine how the stormwater rate of runoff should be controlled within the
development prior to the release of runoff to downstream properties for all
proposed developments;
      (2)   All stormwater drainage facilities within a development shall be
designed to have capacity for the total tributary area, at the design storm
frequency;
      (3)   All proposed developments with a runoff rate greater than that for
which downstream is or will be designed, will be required to control the rate
of stormwater discharge so as not to adversely impact the downstream system;
and
      (4)   Unless otherwise approved by the town, all developments will be
required to control the discharge flow rate of stormwater to the rate specified
in the town's Stormwater Quantity and Quality Management Ordinance. The town
reserves the right to mandate stricter release rates from certain developments
in sensitive areas, when it sees fit to do so and on the advice of its
Engineer.
(Ord. 27, § 6.10.10, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 85, passed 10-17-2000; Am. Ord.
334, passed 5-24-2022)
§ 155.111 MASTER DRAINAGE PLAN.
   (A)   Any person or legal entity seeking approval to develop property in the
town shall be required to prepare and submit a Master Drainage Plan for the
total development area in compliance with the town's Stormwater Quantity and
Quality Management Ordinance and its Stormwater Technical Standards Manual,
along with any additional applicable federal, state or local regulations,
including, but not limited to, MS4.
   (B)   It must be recognized that the Master Drainage Plan does not
constitute a detailed working design or plan from which a sewer project can be
constructed, nor is such detail necessary to meet the objectives of the sketch
review.
(Ord. 27, § 6.20.10, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 85, passed 10-17-2000; Am. Ord.
334, passed 5-24-2022)
§ 155.112 DETAILED DRAINAGE PLAN; MEASUREMENT AND COMPUTATION.
   A Detailed Drainage Plan shall be submitted and shall meet the requirements
of the town's Stormwater Quantity and Quality Management Ordinance and its
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 27, §§ 6.30.10 - 6.30.70, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 85, passed 10-17-
2000; Am. Ord. 157, passed 5-29-2007; Am. Ord. 334, passed 5-24-2022)
§ 155.113 ROADWAY CULVERTS.
   Criteria. Culverts shall be designed using the methodologies outlined in the
town’s Stormwater Quantity and Quality Management Ordinance and its Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 27, §§ 6.40.10 - 6.40.110, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 85, passed 10-17-
2000; Am. Ord. 334, passed 5-24-2022)
§ 155.114 STORM SEWERS.
   Criteria. Storm sewers shall be designed using the methodologies outlined in
the town’s Stormwater Quantity and Quality Management Ordinance and its
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 27, §§ 6.50.10 - 6.50.100, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 85, passed 10-17-
2000; Am. Ord. 157, passed 5-29-2007; Am. Ord. 172, passed 6-17-2010; Am. Ord.
334, passed 5-24-2022)
§ 155.115 OPEN WATERCOURSE.
   Criteria. Open watercourses shall be designed using the methodologies
outlined in the town’s Stormwater Quantity and Quality Management Ordinance and
its Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 27, §§ 6.60.10 - 6.60.90, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 85, passed 10-17-
2000; Am. Ord. 334, passed 5-24-2022)
§ 155.116 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM; OVERFLOW ROUTING; FLOODPLAIN
COMPENSATORY STORAGE; FLOOD PROTECTION GRADES.
   (A)   Stormwater management system. The stormwater management system (wet
ponds, dry ponds, and the like) shall be designed using the methodologies
outlined in the town's Stormwater Quantity and Quality Management Ordinance and
its Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
   (B)   Floodplain compensatory storage. All impacts to the floodplain shall
be designed using the methodologies outlined in the town's Stormwater Quantity
and Quality Management Ordinance and its Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
   (C)   Overflow general grading.
      (1)   No fences or landscaping can be constructed within the easement
areas that may impede the free flow of stormwater. These areas are to be
maintained by the property owner or designated as common areas that are to be
maintained by the homeowners’ association. The property owner may not
materially alter the grade of the property or in any way cause an alteration or
re-routing of storm drainage runoff. Overflow routing of all on-site and off-
site runoff through the development shall be in compliance with town's
Stormwater Quantity and Quality Management Ordinance and its Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual.
      (2)   Maximum yard slopes must be no greater than 3:1 where soil has been
disturbed during construction processes. Finished floor elevation of the
proposed structure (main floor for ranch or two- story homes or entryway for
other structures) must be no less than six inches above finished adjacent grade
and shall be set 24 inches above the adjacent top of curb elevation as measured
from the mid-point of the lot. Finished floor elevations should also be two
feet above the maximum design flow elevation of the overland flow route(s)
through the development.
   (D)   Flood protection grade.
      (1)   For all structures located in the Special Flood Hazards Area (SFHA)
as shown on the FEMA maps, the lowest floor elevations (including basements) of
all residential, commercial, or industrial buildings shall be two feet above
the 100-year flood elevation.
      (2)   For areas outside a FEMA-designated floodplain, the lowest adjacent
grade (including walkout basement floor elevation) for all residential,
commercial, or industrial buildings adjacent to storm water management features
shall be two feet above the 100-year flood elevation under proposed conditions.
Any basement floor must be at least two feet above the permanent water level
(normal pool) of a retention facility.
      (3)   Maximum longitudinal driveway slopes shall be one-foot rise to
twelve-feet horizontal.
      (4)   Grading plans shall show grades at the edge of pavement, top of
curb and gutter, and back of sidewalk at the corners of the lots and at the
mid-points of the lots. Grading plans shall show top of foundation grade
elevations for each building pad, minimum opening elevations (window wells and
walkout basements), proposed lowest adjacent grades at each of the four corners
of the building pad, proposed driveway slopes, proposed finished grade
elevations at each corner of the lot, and intermediate points along the lot
lines as necessary to indicate high and low points.
      (5)   Grading plans shall provide flow arrows indicating the direction of
proposed flow across each lot, side yard, and rear yard and shall indicate the
direction of flow along streets.
(Ord. 27, §§ 6.70.10 - 6.70.70, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 85, passed 10-17-
2000; Am. Ord. 157, passed 5-29-2007; Am. Ord. 172, passed 6-17-2010; Am. Ord.
210, passed 9-11-2012; Am. Ord. 234, passed 5-13-2014; Am. Ord. 334, passed 5-
24-2022)
RESUBDIVISION, PLAT VACATION, AND WAIVERS
§ 155.130 RESUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Procedure for resubdivision. For any change in a plat of an approved
or recorded subdivision plat, that plat shall be considered by the Commission
by the same procedure, rules, and regulations of a subdivision.
   (B)   Procedure for subdivisions where future resubdivision is indicated.
Whenever a parent parcel is subdivided and the subdivision plat shows one or
more lots containing more than one acre of land and there are indications that
those lots will eventually be resubdivided into small building sites, the
Commission may require that the plat allow for the future opening of streets
and the ultimate extension of adjacent streets. Easements providing for the
future opening and extension of these streets may be made a requirement of the
plat.
(Ord. 27, § 1.10.110, passed 4-16-1997)
§ 155.131 VACATION OF PLATS.
   Vacation of plats shall proceed in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-711.
(Ord. 27, § 1.10.120, passed 4-16-1997)
§ 155.132 WAIVERS.
   (A)   General basis. Where the Commission finds that extraordinary hardships
or practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with these
regulations and/or the purposes of this chapter may be served to a greater
extent by an alternative proposal, the Commission may approve waivers to these
subdivision regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public
interest secured, provided that the waivers shall not have the effect of
nullifying the intent and purpose of these regulations; and further provided
the Commission shall not approve waivers unless findings shall be made based
upon the evidence presented to the Commission in each specific case that:
      (1)   The granting of the waiver will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare or injurious to other nearby property;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the request for a waiver are based are
unique to the property for which the waiver is sought and are not applicable
generally to the property;
      (3)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape, or
topographical conditions for the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of this chapter is carried out;
      (4)   The waiver will not in any manner conflict with the provisions of
Chapter 156 of this code or the Comprehensive Plan as interpreted by the Plan
Commission; and
      (5)   Upon due deliberation and affirmative finding of divisions (A)(1)
through (A)(4) inclusive of this section, the Commission may modify
requirements, standards, and specifications so as to promote the public health,
safety, and welfare, and prevent detriment to the use and value of the land,
provided however, that nothing herein shall be construed as altering or
conflicting with the duties of the Board of Zoning Appeals pursuant to I.C. 36-
7-4-900 series, as currently amended.
   (B)   Conditions. In approving waivers, the Commission may require
conditions as will, in the Commission’s judgment, secure substantially the
objectives of the standards or requirements of these regulations.
   (C)   Procedures. A petition for any waiver shall be submitted in writing by
the subdivider at the time when the primary plat is filed for the consideration
of the Commission with fees payable to the town in accordance with the schedule
of fees adopted by town ordinance. The petition shall state fully the grounds
for the application and all of the facts relied upon by the petitioner. The
deadline for submitting waiver petition applications is the same as for primary
plat applications.
(Ord. 27, § 1.10.130, passed 4-16-1997)
APPENDIX A: CERTIFICATES
   The following certificates are presented in general form and may be amended
only by the Commission or Commission Attorney as circumstances may warrant.
   (A)   Plan Commission certificate.
   Under authority provided by Indiana Code 36-7-4 et seq., enacted by the
General Assembly of Indiana, and Ordinance adopted by the Town Council of the
Town of Winfield, this plat was given approval by the Town as follows:
Approved by the Winfield Plan Commission at a meeting held on
_________________________.
Winfield Plan Commission
____________________________
President
____________________________
Secretary
   (B)   Land surveyor’s certificate.
   I, ______________________________ (name), hereby certify that I am a
Professional Engineer (or a Land Surveyor), licensed in compliance with the
laws of the state; that this plat correctly represents a survey completed by me
on _________________________(date); that all monuments shown thereon actually
exist; and that their location, size, type, and material are accurately shown.
(SEAL)
   (C)   Deed of dedication.
   We, the undersigned, _____________________(names), owners of real estate
shown and described herein, do hereby certify that we have laid off, platted,
and subdivided, and do hereby lay off, plat, and subdivide real estate in
accordance with the within plat. This subdivision shall be known and designated
as ______________________(name). All streets, alleys, parks, and other public
lands shown and not heretofore dedicated, are hereby established as shown on
this plat, between which lines and the property lines of the street, there
shall be erected or maintained no building structure.
WITNESS OUR HANDS AND SEALS THIS ________ DAY OF _____________________________.
__________________________________
__________________________________
STATE OF INDIANA
COUNTY OF LAKE
   Before me, the undersigned Notary Public in and for the County of Lake,
State of Indiana, appeared _____________________ (names), and each separately
and severally acknowledged the execution of the foregoing instrument as his or
her voluntary act and deed, for the purpose therein expressed.
Witness my hand and Notarial Seal this ________ day of
__________________________.
__________________________________
Notary Public
   (D)   Utility easement.
   An easement is hereby granted to the Town of Winfield, all public utility
companies including Ameritech and Northern Indiana Public Service Company
severally, and private utility companies where they have a Certificate of
Territorial Authority or a legal franchise with the Town of Winfield to render
service, and their respective successors and assigns, to install, place, and
maintain sewers, water mains, gas mains, conduits, cables, poles, and wires -
either overhead or underground - with all necessary braces, guys, anchors, and
other appliances and appurtenances, in, upon, along, and over the strips of
land designated on the plat and marked Utility Easement for the purpose of
serving the public in general with sewer, water, drainage, gas, electric, and
telephone service, including the right to use the streets where necessary, and
to overland lots with aerial service wires to service adjacent lots, together
with the right to enter upon the said easements for public utilities at all
times for any and all purposes aforesaid and to trim and keep trimmed any
trees, shrubs, or saplings that interfere with any such utility equipment. No
permanent buildings shall be placed on said easement, but same may be used for
gardens, shrub, landscaping, and other purposes that do not interfere with the
use of said easement for such public utility purposes.
(Ord. 27, Appendix, passed 4-16-1997)
APPENDIX B: TABLE OF RUNOFF COEFFICIENTS
Runoff Coefficients
Land Usage Usage Details Runoff Coefficients,       Runoff Coefficients,
                         General Slope Less than 3% General Slope 3% or Greater
Runoff Coefficients
                                   Runoff Coefficients,    Runoff Coefficients,
Land Usage           Usage Details General Slope Less than General Slope 3% or
                                   3%                      Greater
Commercial                         .80                     .95
Industrial           Light         .65                     .80
Parks and cemeteries               .10                     .25
Playgrounds                        .20                     .35
Railroad yard areas                .20                     .40
Residential          Suburban      .35                     .40
Residential          Single-family .40                     .40
Residential          Multi-units   .50                     .70
Residential          Apartments    .60                     .80
Unimproved areas                   .15                     .15
 
(Ord. 27, Table 1, passed 4-16-1997; Am. Ord. 85, passed 10-17-2000)
APPENDIX C: STANDARD CONSTRUCTION DETAILS
   Miscellaneous Details
      A-RD-1   Typical Local Street Cross Section (No Parking)
      A-RD-2   Typical Local Street Cross Section (Parking on One Side)
      A-RD-3   Typical Local Street Cross Section (Parking on Two Sides)
      A-RD-4   Typical Collector Street Cross Section (No Parking)
      A-RD-5   Acceleration/Deceleration Detail
      A-RD-6   Passing Blister Detail
      A-RD-7   Rolled Curb & Gutter Detail
      A-RD-8   Residential Rolled Drive Approach Detail
 
      A-STM-1   Catch Basin Curb Inlet
 
      A-SAN-1   Pipe Bedding Detail
      A-SAN-2   Sanitary Manhole Detail
      A-SAN-3   Typical Sanitary Sewer Service Lateral Detail
      A-SAN-4   Pipe Marker Detail
      A-SAN-5   Force Main Discharge (Drop Pipe) Detail
      A-SAN-6   Poured Invert Shapes Detail
      A-SAN-7   Grease Interceptor Detail
 
      A-GRD-1   Block Grading Type 1
      A-GRD-2   Block Grading Type 2
      A-GRD-3   Block Grading Type 3
      A-GRD-4   Block Grading Type 4
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1495.gif]
 
 
TOWN OF WINFIELD
STANDARD CONSTRUCTION DETAIL
A-RD-1
DATED: 3/27/07
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1497.gif]
 
 
TOWN OF WINFIELD
STANDARD CONSTRUCTION DETAIL
A-RD-2
DATED: 3/27/07
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1499.gif]
 
 
TOWN OF WINFIELD
STANDARD CONSTRUCTION DETAIL
A-RD-3
DATED: 3/27/07
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1501.gif]
 
 
TOWN OF WINFIELD
STANDARD CONSTRUCTION DETAIL
A-RD-4
DATED: 3/27/07
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1503.gif]
 
 
TOWN OF WINFIELD
STANDARD CONSTRUCTION DETAIL
A-RD-5
DATED: –
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1505.gif]
 
 
TOWN OF WINFIELD
STANDARD CONSTRUCTION DETAIL
A-RD-6
DATED: 3/27/07
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1507.gif]
 
 
TOWN OF WINFIELD
STANDARD CONSTRUCTION DETAIL
A-RD-7
DATED: 3/27/07
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1509.gif]
 
 
TOWN OF WINFIELD
STANDARD CONSTRUCTION DETAIL
A-RD-8
DATED: 3/27/07
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1511.gif]
 
 
TOWN OF WINFIELD
STANDARD CONSTRUCTION DETAIL
A-STM-1
DATED: 3/27/07
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1513.gif]
 
 
TOWN OF WINFIELD
STANDARD CONSTRUCTION DETAIL
A-SAN-1
DATED: 3/27/07
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1515.gif]
 
 
TOWN OF WINFIELD
STANDARD CONSTRUCTION DETAIL
A-SAN-2
DATED: 3/27/07
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1517.gif]
 
 
TOWN OF WINFIELD
STANDARD CONSTRUCTION DETAIL
A-SAN-3
DATED: 3/27/07
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1519.gif]
 
 
TOWN OF WINFIELD
STANDARD CONSTRUCTION DETAIL
A-SAN-4
DATED: 3/27/07
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1521.gif]
 
 
TOWN OF WINFIELD
STANDARD CONSTRUCTION DETAIL
A-SAN-5
DATED: 3/27/07
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1523.gif]
 
 
TOWN OF WINFIELD
STANDARD CONSTRUCTION DETAIL
A-SAN-6
DATED: 3/27/07
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1525.gif]
 
 
TOWN OF WINFIELD
STANDARD CONSTRUCTION DETAIL
A-SAN-7
DATED: 3/27/07
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1527.gif]
 
 
TOWN OF WINFIELD
STANDARD CONSTRUCTION DETAIL
A-GRD-1
DATED: 3/27/07
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1529.gif]
 
 
TOWN OF WINFIELD
STANDARD CONSTRUCTION DETAIL
A-GRD-2
DATED: 3/27/07
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1531.gif]
 
 
TOWN OF WINFIELD
STANDARD CONSTRUCTION DETAIL
A-GRD-3
DATED: 3/27/07
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1533.gif]
 
 
TOWN OF WINFIELD
STANDARD CONSTRUCTION DETAIL
A-GRD-4
DATED: 3/27/07
 
APPENDIX D: INDIANA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION DETAILS
   The following Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) Standard Drawings
with the listed revision date and exceptions shall be used for all developments
and sites in the Town of Winfield.
Detail Title INDOT Standard Drawing No. INDOT Revision Date Exceptions/Comments
Detail Title          INDOT Standard INDOT Revision Date Exceptions/Comments
                      Drawing No.
EROSION CONTROL
Temporary Check Dam,  E 205-TECD-01  9/1/09
Revetment Riprap
Temporary Check Dam,  E 205-TECD-02  9/4/07
Straw Bales
Temporary Sediment    E 205-TECD-04  3/1/04
Trap
Temporary Ditch Inlet
Protection, Gravel    E 205-TECI-01  3/1/02
Ring
Temporary Ditch Inlet
Protection,           E 205-TECI-02  3/1/02
Geotextile Box
Temporary Ditch Inlet
Protection Slotted    E 205-TECI-03  3/1/02
Barrel
Temporary Silt Fence  E 205-TECP-02  9/1/10
Temporary Ditch       E 205-TECS-01  3/1/02
Interceptor
SIDEWALKS/CURB RAMPS
Sidewalk Expansion    E 604-CCSJ-01  9/1/99
Joint
                                                         Sidewalks abutting
                                                         curbs shall be a
                                                         minimum of 8 feet
Sidewalk Details      E 604-SDWK-01  9/1/05              wide; Sidewalks with
                                                         utility strips/parkway
                                                         shall be a minimum of
                                                         5 feet wide.
Location Plan For     E 604-SWCR-01  9/1/05
Sidewalk Curb Ramps
Sidewalk Curb Ramps
General Notes and     E 604-SWCR-02  9/1/05
Details
Sidewalk Curb Ramp    E 604-SWCR-03  9/1/05
Type A
Sidewalk Curb Ramp    E 604-SWCR-04  9/1/05
Type B
Sidewalk Curb Ramp    E 604-SWCR-05  9/1/05
Type C
Sidewalk Ramp Curb    E 604-SWCR-06  9/1/05
Type D
 
Detail Title INDOT Standard Drawing No. INDOT Revision Date Exceptions/Comments
Detail Title         INDOT Standard INDOT Revision Date Exceptions/Comments
                     Drawing No.
SIDEWALKS/CURB RAMPS
Sidewalk Curb Ramps  E 604-SWCR-07  9/1/05
Type E
Sidewalk Curb Ramps  E 604-SWCR-08  9/1/05
Type F
Sidewalk Curb's      E 604-SWCR-09  9/1/05
Ramp's Type G and H
Sidewalk Curb Ramp   E 604-SWCR-10  9/1/05
Type K
Sidewalk Curb Ramps  E 604-SWCR-11  9/1/05
Type L
Sidewalk Curb Ramp's E 604-SWCR-12  9/1/05
Improved Access
STORM DRAINAGE
Metal Pipe End       E 715-MPES-01  11/15/99
Section
Metal Pipe Arch End  E 715-MPES-02  11/15/99
Section
Metal Pipe End       E 715-MPES-03  7/27/99
Section Connections
Precast Concrete End E 715-PCES-01  11/15/99
Section
                                                        PVC Pipe shall not be
Pipe Height Of Cover                                    used for storm sewer
Limits               E 715-PHCL-19  11/15/99            beneath or within five
                                                        feet of the roadway
                                                        pavement
Pipe Height Of Cover E 715-PHCL-21  9/1/09
Limits
Pipe Height Of Cover E 715-PHCL-22  9/1/09
Limits
Pipe Height Of Cover E 715-PHCL-23  11/15/99
Limits
Safety Metal Culvert                                    Safety Metal Culvert
End Sections For     E 715-SMES-01  9/1/00              End Sections shall be
Corrugated Pipe                                         used within the
                                                        roadway clear zones
Safety Metal Culvert
End Sections For     E 715-SMES-02  7/27/99
Corrugated Pipe
Safety Metal Culvert
End Sections For     E 715-SMES-03  7/27/99
Corrugated Pipe
Safety Metal Culvert
End Sections For     E 715-SMES-04  7/27/99
Corrugated Pipe
Safety Metal Culvert
End Sections For     E 715-SMES-05  7/27/99
Corrugated Pipe
 
Detail Title INDOT Standard Drawing No. INDOT Revision Date Exceptions/Comments
Detail Title         INDOT Standard INDOT Revision Date Exceptions/Comments
                     Drawing No.
STORM DRAINAGE
Safety Metal Culvert
End Sections For     E 715-SMES-06  11/15/99
Corrugated Pipe
Safety Metal Culvert
End Sections For     E 715-SMES-08  7/27/99
Smooth Pipe
Safety Metal Culvert
End Sections For     E 715-SMES-09  7/27/99
Smooth Pipe
Safety Metal Culvert
End Sections For     E 715-SMES-10  7/27/99
Smooth Pipe
Safety Metal Culvert
End Sections For     E 715-SMES-11  7/27/99
Smooth Pipe
Safety Metal Culvert
End Sections For     E 715-SMES-12  11/15/99
Smooth Pipe
                                                        Catch basins shall not
Catch Basin Type A   E 720-CBST-01  9/2/08              be made of brick or
                                                        block
Catch Basin Type E   E 720-CBST-03  11/15/99
Catch Basin Type W   E 720-CBST-08  9/2/03
Catch Basin Hood     E 720-CBST-09  11/15/99
Earth Ditch Casting  E 720-EDCA-01  11/15/99
Type 7
Manhole Casting Type E 720-MHCA-02  11/15/99
4 Ring and Cover
Manhole Casting Type E 720-MHCA-03  11/15/99
4 Alternate Cover
Manhole Type C       E 720-MHST-02  11/15/99
Manholes Type D, E,  E 720-MHST-04  9/2/03
F, and G
Manholes Type H, J,  E 720-MHST-05  9/1/06
K, L, M, and N
Precast Concrete     E 720-MHST-06  11/15/99
Manhole Sections
Precast Manhole      E 720-MHST-07  11/15/99
Bottom Section
Manhole Bars and     E 720-MHST-08  9/2/03
Concentric Cone
 
 
Detail Title         INDOT Standard INDOT Revision Date Exceptions/Comments
                     Drawing No.
STORM DRAINAGE
Manhole Step         E 720-MHST-09  11/15/99
Table Of Reinforcing E 720-MHST-10  11/15/99
Steel For Manhole
 
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figures_1_through_56
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_1
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_2
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_3
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_4
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_5
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_6
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_7
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_8
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_9
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_10
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_11
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_12
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_13
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_14
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_15
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_16
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_17
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_18
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_19
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_20
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_21
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_22
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_23
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_24
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_25
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_26
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_27
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_28
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_29
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_30
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_31
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_32
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_33
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_34
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_35
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_36
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_37
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_38
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_39
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_40
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_41
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_42
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_43
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_44
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_45
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_46
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_47
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_48
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_49
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_50
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_51
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_52
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_53
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_54
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_55
Click_here_for_PDF_document_of_Appendix_D,_Figure_56
(Ord. 157, passed 5-29-2007; Am. Ord. 210, passed 9-11-2012)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Short title
   
156.002   Purpose
   
156.003   Compliance required
   
156.004   Jurisdiction
   
156.005   Application; abrogation and greater restrictions
   
156.006   Conflicts; state statute to control
   
156.007   Existing actions
   
156.008   Interpretation; minimum requirements
   
156.009   Usage; rules of interpretation
   
156.010   Definitions
Zoning Maps and Districts
   
156.020   Official Zoning Map
   
156.021   Zoning districts
   
156.022   District boundaries
   
156.023   Annexed territory; district classification
General Regulations
   
156.035   Application of regulations
   
156.036   Height restrictions
   
156.037   Nonconforming uses and structures
   
156.038   Overlay zones; FP, floodplain district
   
156.039   Swimming pools; requirements
   
156.040   Hobby farms
   
156.041   Accessory buildings
   
156.042   Chicken raising
   
156.043   Commercial development plan review/approval
   
156.044   (Reserved)
   
156.045   Building material construction standards
   
156.046   Wind energy conversion systems (WECS)
   
156.047   Solar energy generating systems
   
156.048   Outdoor lighting standards
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
156.055   Minimum off-street parking facilities
   
156.056   Calculation of required parking spaces
   
156.057   Location of parking
   
156.058   Expansion of nonconforming use
   
156.059   Collective use of parking facilities
   
156.060   Parking facilities; requirements
   
156.061   Parking facility design requirements
   
156.062   Residential parking; design requirements
   
156.063   Off-street loading; required facilities
   
156.064   Off-street loading spaces; minimum size
   
156.065   Off-street loading; surfacing
Sign Regulations; General Provisions
   
156.075   Purpose
   
156.076   Application
   
156.077   Administration and enforcement
   
156.078   Definitions; usage
   
156.079   Computations
   
156.080   Permit required
   
156.081   Exemptions
   
156.082   Design restrictions
   
156.083   Master or Common Signage Plan
   
156.084   Permit application; fees
   
156.085   Violations
Permitted and Restricted Signs
   
156.095   Prohibited signs
   
156.096   Permitted signs in all districts
   
156.097   Permitted signs in specific zoning districts
   
156.098   Specific types of signs
   
156.099   Political signs
   
156.100   Nonconforming signs
   
156.101   Design review standards
AG, Agricultural District
   
156.110   Intent
   
156.111   Permitted uses
   
156.112   Home occupations
   
156.113   Area and bulk requirements
   
156.114   Off-street parking
   
156.115   Private garages and other accessory buildings
   
156.116   Frontage
   
156.117   Storage restrictions
   
156.118   Garage sales, yard sales, and the like
AG-B, Agricultural Business District
   
156.130   Intent
   
156.131   Permitted uses
   
156.132   Area and bulk requirements
   
156.133   Off-street parking
   
156.134   Private garages and other accessory buildings
   
156.135   Frontage
   
156.136   Storage restrictions
   
156.137   Garage sales, yard sales, and the like
R-1, Low Density Residential District
   
156.150   Intent
   
156.151   Permitted uses
   
156.152   Home occupations
   
156.153   Area and bulk requirements
   
156.154   Off-street parking
   
156.155   Private garages and other accessory buildings
   
156.156   Frontage
   
156.157   Storage restrictions
   
156.158   Garage sales, yard sales, and the like
R-2, Medium Density Residential District
   
156.170   Intent
   
156.171   Permitted uses
   
156.172   Home occupations
   
156.173   Area and bulk requirements
   
156.174   Off-street parking
   
156.175   Private garages and other accessory buildings
   
156.176   Frontage
   
156.177   Storage restrictions
   
156.178   Garage sales, yard sales, and the like
R-3, High Density Residential District
   
156.190   Intent
   
156.191   Permitted uses
   
156.192   Home occupations
   
156.193   Area and bulk requirements
   
156.194   Off-street parking
   
156.195   Private garages and other accessory buildings
   
156.196   Frontage
   
156.197   Storage restrictions
   
156.198   Garage sales, yard sales, and the like
R-4, Residential District
   
156.210   Intent
   
156.211   Permitted uses
   
156.212   Home occupations
   
156.213   Area and bulk requirements
   
156.214   Off-street parking
   
156.215   Private garages and other accessory buildings
   
156.216   Frontage
   
156.217   Storage restrictions
   
156.218   Garage sales, yard sales, and the like
MF, Multi-Family Residential District
   
156.230   Intent
   
156.231   Permitted uses
   
156.232   Home occupations
   
156.233   Area and bulk requirements
   
156.234   Off-street parking
   
156.235   Private garages and other accessory buildings
   
156.236   Frontage
   
156.237   Storage restrictions
   
156.238   Garage sales, yard sales, and the like
PD, Planned Development Districts
   
156.250   Intent
   
156.251   Origination of proposals
   
156.252   Classification of planned developments
   
156.253   Pre-submission conference
   
156.254   PD rezoning request; filing requirements
   
156.255   Required review meeting
   
156.256   Petition to rezone to a PD district
   
156.257   Preliminary development plan; submission requirements
   
156.258   Preliminary plan; hearing and disposition
   
156.259   Final detailed plans; approval procedure
   
156.260   Approved final detailed plans; recording
   
156.261   Amending recorded final detailed plans
   
156.262   Abandoned planned developments
   
156.263   Covenants and maintenance
   
156.264   Surety requirements
   
156.265   Appeals
C-1, Neighborhood Commercial District
   
156.275   Intent
   
156.276   Permitted uses
   
156.277   Area and bulk requirements
   
156.278   Off-street parking
   
156.279   Private garages and other accessory buildings
   
156.280   Frontage
C-2, Office Commercial District
   
156.290   Intent
   
156.291   Permitted uses
   
156.292   Area and bulk requirements
   
156.293   Off-street parking
   
156.294   Private garages and other accessory buildings
   
156.295   Frontage
C-3, General Commercial District
   
156.305   Intent
   
156.306   Permitted uses
   
156.307   Area and bulk requirements
   
156.308   Off-street parking
   
156.309   Private garages and other accessory buildings
   
156.310   Frontage
M-1, Light Manufacturing District
   
156.320   Intent
   
156.321   Permitted uses
   
156.322   Area and bulk requirements
   
156.323   Off-street parking
   
156.324   Private garages and other accessory buildings
   
156.325   Frontage
   
156.326   Noise restrictions; vibration restrictions
   
156.327   Smoke and particulates; toxic, noxious, or odorous matter;
restrictions
   
156.328   Fire and explosive hazards; restrictions
   
156.329   Glare and heat restricted
   
156.330   Adult entertainment; restrictions
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
156.340   Establishment
   
156.341   Organization
   
156.342   Jurisdiction
   
156.343   Powers and duties
   
156.344   Rules and procedures
Variances, Use Variances, and Special Exceptions; Appeals
   
156.355   Variances
   
156.356   Use variances
   
156.357   Special exceptions
   
156.358   Review by Town Council
   
156.359   Restrictions on variances, use variances, and special exceptions
   
156.360   Appeals
Administration and Enforcement
   
156.370   Authority; Building Administrator
   
156.371   Complaints of violation
   
156.372   Building permits
   
156.373   Certificates of occupancy
   
156.374   Compliance required
   
156.375   Amendments
 
   
156.999   Penalty
      
Appendix A: District Use Table
      
Appendix B: Design Requirements Table
      
Appendix C: Schedule of Parking Facilities
      
Appendix D: Permitted Signs
      
Appendix E:  Sign Dimensions and Number Allowed by Zoning District
Cross reference:
   Landscape design standards and regulations, see Ch. 158
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be cited as the town’s Zoning Code and shall be referred
to herein as this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 1.10.10, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.002 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted in accordance with the town’s Comprehensive Plan for
the following purposes:
   (A)   To secure adequate light, air, convenience of access, and safety from
fire, flood, and other dangers;
   (B)   To lessen or avoid congestion in public ways;
   (C)   So that the community grows in an orderly, sustainable fashion with
efficient, effective, and economical use of public funds; and
   (D)   To otherwise accomplish the purposes of I.C. 36-7-4-600 et seq.
(Ord. 23, § 1.10.20, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.003 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No structure shall be located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved,
altered, converted, or enlarged, nor shall any structure or land be used,
except in full compliance with all provisions of this chapter and any other
applicable ordinances of the town, and after the lawful issuance of all permits
and certificates required by this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 1.10.30, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.004 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall apply to all land within the corporate limits of the town
upon adoption by the Town Council.
(Ord. 23, § 1.10.50, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.005 APPLICATION; ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   If the application of any provision(s) of this chapter to particular
circumstances is held unconstitutional or invalid by the courts, the
application of these provisions to other circumstances shall not be affected.
   (B)   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with, abrogate, or
amend any existing easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties,
nor is it intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul, or in any way
interfere with any existing provisions of laws or ordinances (other than
previous zoning and subdivision control ordinances), or any rules, regulations,
or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant to law relating to the use of
buildings or premises; provided, however, that where this chapter imposes a
greater restriction upon the use of buildings or premises than is imposed or
required by those existing provisions of law or by those rules, regulations,
agreements, covenants, or permits, the provisions of this chapter shall
control; but where private covenants, permits, agreements, rules, or
regulations impose a greater restriction than is imposed by this chapter, the
greater restriction shall control.
(Ord. 23, §§ 1.10.40 and 1.10.60, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.006 CONFLICTS; STATE STATUTE TO CONTROL.
   This chapter shall be interpreted to be supplemental to any statutes of the
state. To the extent that a court of competent jurisdiction shall determine any
portion of this chapter to be in conflict with a statute of the state and not
be authorized by the same, the statute of the state shall control.
(Ord. 23, § 1.10.90, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.007 EXISTING ACTIONS.
   This chapter shall not be construed as abating any action now pending under,
or by virtue of, prior existing zoning ordinance, nor as discontinuing abating,
modifying, or altering any penalty accruing or about to accrue.
(Ord. 23, § 1.10.70, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.008 INTERPRETATION; MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion and
application of the purposes set forth in § 156.002 above.
(Ord. 23, § 1.10.80, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.009 USAGE; RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following uses and
interpretations shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning or unless otherwise specifically stated.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense; and
      (2)   Words used in the plural number shall include the singular, and
vice versa.
   (B)   Terms not defined in this chapter shall have their customary meanings.
(Ord. 23, § 1.20.10, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.010 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. To cease or discontinue use or activity for a period of one
year, but excluding temporary or short term interruptions to a use or activity
during periods of remodeling, maintaining, or otherwise improving or
rearranging a facility, or during normal periods of vacation or seasonal
closure.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A building or use which:
      (1)   Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal use;
      (2)   Contributes to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of occupants
of the principal building or principal use served;
      (3)   Is subordinate in area, extent, or purpose to the principal
building or principal use served; and
      (4)   Is located on the same lot as the principal use or structure
served, with the exception of accessory off-street parking facilities as are
permitted elsewhere than on the same lot with the use or structure.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use incidental to, and on the same lot as, a principal use.
See also HOME OCCUPATION.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. Live entertainment or the sale or display of any book,
magazine, poster, or photograph, or any other item, depicting specified sexual
activities, including without limitation: human genitals in a state of sexual
stimulation or arousal; or erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock, or female breast; or specified anatomical areas being less than
completely and opaquely covered, human genitals, pubic region, buttock, and
female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola. By way of
illustration and not limitation, ADULT ENTERTAINMENT shall include nude and
semi-nude dancing, striptease dancing, lingerie shows, wet tee-shirt contests,
and other similar activities.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of land for agricultural purposes, including farming,
dairying, pasturage, apiculture, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture, and
animal and poultry husbandry, and the necessary uses for packing, treating, or
storing the produce; however, the operation of any accessory uses shall be
secondary to that of the normal agricultural activities. AGRICULTURE shall not
include feed lots, stock yards, or the commercial feeding of garbage or offal
to swine or other animals.
   AGRICULTURE ZONING DISTRICT. An AG or AG-B district.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way, other than a street, road, crosswalk, or
easement, that provides secondary access to abutting property.
   APARTMENT. One or more rooms in an APARTMENT building or combination
APARTMENT and commercial building intended, designed, or occupied on a rental
basis as a dwelling unit by an individual or single family.
   APARTMENT BUILDING. A multiple-family housing structure designed and
constructed to accommodate four or more apartments, in contrast to single- or
two-family dwellings converted for multiple family use.
   ATTACHED BUILDING. A building that is structurally connected to another
building by a foundation, wall, or roof line. Carports, garages, porch awnings,
and the like shall be considered ATTACHED BUILDINGS and abide by all
regulations pertaining to primary buildings.
   AUTO REPAIR, MAJOR. Engine rebuilding or major reconditioning of worn or
damaged motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body, frame,
or fender straightening or repair; and overall painting of vehicles.
   AUTO REPAIR, MINOR. Incidental repairs, replacement of parts, and motor
service to automobiles, but excluding any operation specified under AUTO
REPAIR, MAJOR.
   AUTO/RV SALES. New and used car dealerships, RV dealers, boat sales, new and
used truck sales, motorcycle sales, recreational vehicle sales.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Any building or premises used for the
dispensing, sale, or offering for sale at retail to the public, lubricating
oils or grease for the operation of automobiles; and the sale and installation
of tires, batteries, other minor accessories, and minor auto repair, not
including automobile, gasoline sales and commercial car washes.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. An owner occupied or owner employee occupied residence
containing no more than six rooms for hire, for lodging by prearrangement for
periods not to exceed three consecutive weeks and providing for occasional
meals daily, and not a hotel, boarding or lodging house, or motel.
   BLOCK. An area that abuts a street and lies between two adjoining streets or
barriers such as a railroad right-of-way or natural barriers.
   BOARD. The Board of Zoning Appeals of the town.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building, not available to transients, for at least four
but not more than 20 persons, in which meals are regularly prepared and served
for compensation and where food is placed upon the table family style, without
service or ordering of individual portions from a menu.
   BUFFER AREA. A strip of land, identified on a site plan or by a zoning
ordinance, established to protect one type of land use from another land use
that is incompatible; maintain existing vegetation; block or reduce noise,
glare, or other emissions; and to maintain privacy. See SCREENING.
   BUILDING. A structure having a roof, supported by columns or walls, for the
shelter, support, or enclosure of persons, property, or animals; and when
separated by division walls from the ground up and without openings, each
portion of the BUILDING shall be deemed as a separate BUILDING. BUILDING
includes the word STRUCTURE, and vice versa.
   BUILDING AREA. The horizontal area of the buildings on a lot, measured from
the outside exterior walls, excluding open areas or terraces, unenclosed
porches or decks, and architectural features that project no more than two
feet.
   BUILDING LINE. The line that establishes the minimum permitted distance on a
lot between the front line of a building and the street right-of-way.
   BUSINESS. The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter, or exchange of goods,
wares, merchandise, or services, or the maintenance or operation of offices,
recreational, agricultural, or amusement enterprises.
   BUSINESS/ RETAIL COMPLEX. A multi-tenant building or development, operating
under single ownership or unified control, which is operated principally for
retail, service or commercial uses.
   BZA. The Board of Zoning Appeals of the town.
   CEMETERY. Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead and
dedicated for CEMETERY purposes, including columbariums, crematories,
mausoleums, and mortuaries when operated in conjunction with and within the
boundaries of the CEMETERY.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate stating that the occupancy and use
of a building or structure complies with the provisions of this chapter and the
building regulations in
Chapter 151.
   CLINIC. An establishment in which patients are admitted for medical or
dental study or treatment and in which the services of at least two physicians
or dentists are provided.
   COMMERCIAL LODGING. Places that offer overnight accommodations for short-
term rental, including hotels and motels. COMMERCIAL LODGING also includes
hotels that offer convention facilities or meeting rooms.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION.
      (1)   Race tracks for stock cars, race cars, motorcyles, or any other
vehicles.
      (2)   Race tracks for dogs and horses or any other animals.
      (3)   Sports field or complex, batting cages, water parks, go-cart
tracks, miniature golf and driving ranges, etc.
   COMMERCIAL STORAGE FACILITY.  A storage building or lot that is for self-
lock, temporary, boat, auto, RV, or any other type of storage that is rented or
leased for use other than by the proprietor.
   COMMISSION. The Advisory Plan Commission of the town.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Inclusive physical, social, and economic plans and
policies in graphic statement forms for the development of the town and adopted
by the Commission pursuant to the I.C. 36-7-4-500 series and including any part
and/or policies separately adopted and any amendment to the plan and/or
policies, or parts thereof. It does not include the implementing ordinances
such as this chapter and
Chapter 155 of this code.
   CONDITIONAL USE. Special provisions or requirements applicable to specific
uses in certain zoning districts. If specified conditions are met as determined
in this chapter by the Building Administrator, no further approval is required.
   CONDOMINIUM. Real estate lawfully subject to I.C. 32-25, by the recordation
of a declaration under that chapter, in which undivided interests in the common
areas and facilities are vested in the CONDOMINIUM unit owners.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. Any retail establishment offering for sale prepackaged
food products, household items, and other goods commonly associated with the
same and having a gross floor area of less than 5,000 square feet.
   COUNTY. Lake County, Indiana.
   DAY CARE CENTER. Any institution operated for the care of children,
administered pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1108.
   DETACHED BUILDING. A building that has no structural connection with another
building.
   DRIVE-IN. An establishment selling foods, desserts, or beverages to
consumers, the establishment being designed, intended, or used for the
consumption of these items on the premises outside of the building in which
they are prepared.
   DRIVE-THROUGH. Any portion of a building or structure from which business is
transacted, or is capable of being transacted, directly with customers located
in a motor vehicle during the business transactions.
   DUPLEX. See DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY.
   DWELLING. A building or structure or portion thereof, conforming to all
requirements applicable to the residential use districts and Chapter 151 of
this code, used exclusively for residential occupancy, including single-family
DWELLING units, two-family DWELLING units, three-family DWELLING units, and
multiple-family DWELLING units, excluding hotels, boarding houses, and lodging
houses.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY.  A residential building designed for or occupied
by four or more families, with the number of families in residence not
exceeding the number of dwelling units provided, including what is commonly
known as an apartment building, but not including group, row, or townhouses.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached residential dwelling unit designed for
and occupied by one family.
   DWELLING, THREE-FAMILY. A detached residential dwelling unit containing
three dwelling units, designed for occupancy by not more than three families.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A detached residential dwelling unit containing two
dwelling units, designed for occupancy by not more than two families.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms physically arranged so as to create an
independent housekeeping establishment for occupancy by one family, with
permanently installed cooking and sanitary facilities.
   EARTH REMOVAL/EXCAVATION. Equipment storage area for non-agricultural earth
removal/ excavating and other heavy equipment such as cranes, hi-lifts,
backhoes, graders, etc.
   FAMILY. An individual, or two or more persons related by blood or marriage,
and/or a group of not more than ten persons (excluding servants) who need not
be related by blood or marriage, living together in a dwelling unit.
   FARM. An area of land at least five acres in size used for agricultural
operations, forestry, the operation of a tree or plant nursery, or the
production of livestock and poultry.
   FINAL DISPOSAL FACILITY. A landfill, an incinerator, or a waste-to-energy
facility.
   FLEA MARKET. The rental or lease of space for retail, wholesale and resale
activities undertaken by itinerant merchants.
   FOUNDATION. The supporting member of a wall or structure.
   FRONT LINE. With respect to a building, the foundation line that is nearest
the front lot line. The FRONT LINE of the building shall be the line of the
furthest projection of the main wall facing the street right-of-way, including
chimneys, sun parlors, and enclosed or screened porches, and excluding only
open steps and entrance ways, open porches and open terraces extending five
feet or less from the main wall of the building, and fences or walls not more
than three and one-half feet in height.
   FRONT LOT LINE:
      (1)   For an interior or through lot, the line marking the boundary
between the lot and the abutting street right-of-way or a lake or watercourse;
and
      (2)   For a corner lot, the line marking the boundary between the lot and
the shorter of the two abutting street right-of-way segments.
   FRONT YARD. The unoccupied open space required by this chapter between the
front line of a building and the street right-of-way line.
   FRONTAGE. All property of a lot fronting on a street right-of-way, as
measured between side lot lines.
   GARAGE. An attached or detached structure whose principal use is to house
motor vehicles or personal property for the accommodation of related dwelling
units or related business establishments.
   GROUP HOME.
      (1)   GROUP HOME FOR THE DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED. A residential facility
for the developmentally disabled, as defined and regulated under I.C. 12-28-4-
1 et seq.
      (2)   GROUP HOME FOR THE MENTALLY DISABLED. A residential facility for
the mentally disabled, as defined and regulated under I.C. 12-28-4-1 et seq.
      (3)   All GROUP HOMES shall be operated in compliance with I.C. 12-28-4-
1 et seq.
      (4)   No GROUP HOME for the mentally disabled may be located within 3,000
feet of another residential facility for the mentally disabled.
      (5)   All GROUP HOMES shall be required to meet the zoning requirements,
development standards, and building codes as applicable.
   HARDSHIP. The inability to improve or modify land or improvements located
thereon stemming from the strict application of this chapter.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical height measured from the lot ground level
to the highest point of the roof.
   HOBBY FARM. A parcel of land at least five acres used primarily as a
residential lot, whereon some crops may be raised and whereon some animals may
be kept for pleasure.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation, profession, activity, or use that is clearly
a customary, incidental, and secondary use of a residential dwelling unit,
which conforms to the provisions of this chapter, and which does not alter the
exterior of the property or affect the residential character of the
neighborhood.
   HOOKAH. A single or multi-stemmed instrument with long flexible tubes for
smoking tobacco in which the smoke is cooled and filtered by passing through
water.
   HOOKAH LOUNGE. An establishment where patrons share flavored tobacco from a
hookah.
   HOTEL. A building in which lodging or board and lodging are provided and
offered to the public for compensation and in which ingress and egress to and
from all rooms is made through an inside lobby or office supervised by a person
in charge at all hours. As such, it is open to the public. Compensation is
usually assessed on a day to day basis.
   JUNK. Old, dilapidated, scrap, or abandoned metal, paper, building material
and equipment, bottles, glass, appliances, furniture, beds and bedding, rags,
rubber, motor vehicles (as applicable under state law), and parts thereof.
   JUNK YARD. A place, usually outdoors, where waste or discarded used property
other than organic matter, including but not limited to automobiles, farm
implements, and trucks, is accumulated and is or may be salvaged for reuse or
resale; this shall not include any industrial scrap metal yard.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any premises where four or more animals over four months
of age are maintained, boarded, bred in return for compensation or offered for
sale.
   LODGING HOUSE. A building, not available to transients, in which lodgings
are regularly provided for compensation for at least four but less than 20
persons.
   LOT. Any piece or parcel of land or a portion of a subdivision, the
boundaries of which have been established by some legal instrument of record,
that is recognized and intended as a unit for the purpose of transfer of
ownership. LOT includes the words PLOT, PIECE, and PARCEL.
      (1)   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting on and at the intersection of two or
more streets.
      (2)   LOT, FLAG. A lot with access provided to the bulk of the lot by
means of a narrow corridor.
      (3)   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner or through lot.
      (4)   LOT, THROUGH. A lot fronting on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets; also a lot fronting on both a street and a watercourse or
lake.
   LOT COVERAGE. Determined by dividing that area of a lot which is occupied or
covered by the total horizontal projected surface of all buildings, including
covered porches and accessory structures, by the gross area of the lot.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance from the midpoint of the front lot line
to the midpoint of the rear lot line.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between side lot lines, measured at the
required building line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A single-family dwelling unit designed and built in a
factory, installed as a permanent residence, which bears a seal certifying that
it was built in compliance with the federal Manufactured Housing Construction
and Safety Standards Law (42 USC 5401 et seq.), and which also complies with
the following specifications:
      (1)   It shall have been constructed after January 1, 1981, and must
exceed 950 square feet of occupied space per I.C. 36-7-4-1106(d);
      (2)   It is attached to a permanent foundation of masonry construction
and has a permanent perimeter enclosure constructed in accordance with the One-
and Two-Family Dwelling Code;
      (3)   It has wheels, axles, and towing chassis removed;
      (4)   It has a pitch roof with a minimum rise of two-twelfths; and
      (5)   It consists of two or more sections which, when joined, have a
minimum dimension of 20 feet in both length and width.
   MANUFACTURING DISTRICT. An M-1 light manufacturing district.
   MARKER. A stake, pipe, rod, nail, or any other object which is not intended
to be a permanent point for record purposes.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable, factory-built home, designed to be used as a
year-round residential dwelling and built prior to the enactment of the federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, which
became effective June 15, 1976.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any site, lot, field, or tract of land upon which two or
more mobile homes to be used for human habitation are parked, either free of
charge or for revenue purposes, and shall include any street used or intended
for use as part of the facilities of the MOBILE HOME PARK. A MOBILE HOME PARK
does not include a mobile home sales area on which unoccupied mobile homes are
parked for inspection or sale.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. Any site, lot, field, or tract which is to be
divided into smaller sites, lots, fields, or tracts of land, which smaller
sites, lots, fields, or tracts of land are to be sold for use by the purchaser
to park the purchaser’s mobile home.
   MONUMENT, SURVEY. A permanent physical structure which marks the location of
a corner or other survey point.
   MOTEL. An establishment consisting of a group of attached or detached living
or sleeping accommodations with bathroom and closet space, located on a single
zoning lot, and designed for use by transient automobile travelers. A MOTEL
furnishes customary hotel services such as maid service and laundering of
linen, telephone, secretarial, and desk service, and the use and upkeep of
furniture.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING. A building existing at the effective date of this
chapter, or amendments thereto, and that does not conform to the provisions of
this chapter relative to height, bulk, area, or setbacks for the district in
which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use which lawfully occupied a building, or land, at the
effective date of this chapter or amendments thereto, and that does not conform
to the use regulations of the district in which it is located.
   NURSING HOME. A home for the aged or infirm in which three or more persons
not of the same immediate family are housed and provided with food, and/or care
for compensation in one or more congregate buildings; but not including
hospitals, clinics, or similar institutions devoted primarily to the diagnosis
and treatment of the sick or injured. A NURSING HOME includes, but is not
limited to, independent living, assisted living and memory care facilities.
   OFFICE BUILDING. A building or a portion of a building wherein services are
performed involving predominantly administrative, professional or clerical
operations not involving any equipment other than furniture and document
processing and storage facilities.
   PARCEL. A continuous quantity of land in the possession of or owned by, or
recorded as the property of, the same person, persons, or entity.
   PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE. Space within a public or private parking area for
the storage of one passenger automobile or commercial vehicle under a 1½-ton
capacity.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. A structural system for transposing loads from a
structure to the earth at a depth below the established frost line without
exceeding the safe bearing capacity of the supporting soil.
   PERMANENT PERIMETER ENCLOSURE. A permanent perimeter structural system
completely enclosing the space between the floor joists of the home and the
ground except for the necessary openings, constructed in accordance with the
One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, a corporation, a partnership, and an
unincorporated association or their agents.
   PET STORE/GROOMING. Retail sales of domestic and/or exotic animals and
accessory products, or bathing and trimming services conducted entirely within
an enclosed building with no outdoor use.
   PLAN COMMISSION. The Advisory Plan Commission of the town.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. A land development established under the regulations of
I.C. 36-7-4-1400 et seq., as amended from time to time, and §§
156.250 through
156.265 of this code.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. The building or structure in which the
principal use of the lot or premises is located or conducted; with respect to
residential uses, the PRINCIPAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE shall be the main
dwelling.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary use and chief purpose of a lot or structure, as
distinguished from an accessory use.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. This use includes business uses with little direct
contact with customers present at the premises, which engage in the processing,
manipulation, or application of business information or professional expertise.
This includes, but is not limited to, accounting, insurance, investment and
financial services, interior design, architecture, engineering, legal services,
real estate services, land surveyors, doctors or dentists offices, data
processing and analysis facilities, computer software and Internet-based
businesses, utility company business offices, license bureaus, and not-for-
profit agencies, but not medical clinics.
   REAR LOT LINE. The lot line that is opposite the front lot line and farthest
from it; except, for a triangular or irregularly shaped lot, it is the line a
minimum of ten feet long, parallel to the front lot line, and wholly within the
lot, that is farthest from the lot line.
   REAR YARD. A yard extending across the rear of the lot at the opposite end
from the front yard, measuring the full width between the side lot lines and
being the minimum distance between the rear lot line and the rear of the
principal building or any projection thereof, other than unenclosed steps or
entrance way.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A portable vehicular structure designed as a temporary
dwelling for travel and vacation uses, and which:
      (1)   Is identified on the unit by the manufacturer as a travel trailer;
      (2)   Is not more than eight feet in body width;
      (3)   Is of any weight provided its body length does not exceed 29 feet;
      (4)   Is a structure mounted on or towed by an automobile or truck; and
      (5)   Is designed to be used for sleeping and human habitation.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Any lot of land upon which one or more
recreational vehicle sites are located, established, or maintained for
occupancy by recreational vehicles as temporary living quarters.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. A flood having a peak discharge which can be equaled or
exceeded on the average of once in a 100-year period, as calculated by a method
and procedure which is acceptable to and approved by the state Department of
Natural Resources Commission; this flood is equivalent to a flood having a
probability of occurrence of 1% in any given year.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of
the floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to
efficiently carry and discharge peak flow of the regulatory flood of any river
or stream, and which is that area covered by flood waters in significant
downstream motion or covered by significant volumes of stored water during the
occurrence of the regulatory flood.
   RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT. Research, development, and testing related to such
fields as chemical, pharmaceutical, medical, electrical, transportation and
engineering. All research, testing, and development shall be carried on within
entirely enclosed buildings, and no noise, smoke, glare, vibration or odor
shall be detected outside of said building.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. Includes R-1, R-2, R-3, MF, or PD district.
   REST HOME or NURSING HOME. A private home for the care of the aged or
infirm, or any other person in need of nursing care, and which does not contain
equipment for surgical care or for treatment of disease or injury, and is not
primarily designed for mental patients, substance abuse patients, or
alcoholics.
   RESTAURANT. A lot upon which food or beverages are cooked or prepared and
offered for sale and where consumption is permitted on the premises. This does
not include restaurants that serve alcoholic beverages or use drive-thru
windows.
   RESTAURANT (BAR). A restaurant which serves alcoholic beverages.
   RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD/ DRIVE-THRU. A lot upon which food or beverages are
cooked or prepared and offered for sale and where consumption is permitted on
the premises, as well as for pick- up through the use of a drive-thru.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment, the primary purpose of which is the
sale of goods, products or materials directly to the consumer. This includes,
but is not limited to, establishments that sell clothing, electronics,
furniture, groceries, hardware, pets, toys, appliances, books, jewelry, office
supplies and computers. It does not include restaurants, tobacco sales, and
professional office uses.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT, BIG BOX. A single retail establishment containing
50,000 square feet or more.
   RETAIL GUN SALES. A business (or department within a store) which sells
firearms, has firearms on display and is open to the public. This is not
intended to regulate direct, occasional, private or personal sales of firearms.
Firearms must have a trigger lock, be secured in a locked room or case and the
premises must be alarmed when the business is not supervised.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline,
water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees, or other special use.
   SCHOOL. A public or private institution which offers instruction in any of
the branches of learning and study comparable to that taught in the public
SCHOOLS under the state school laws, including pre-kindergarten, kindergarten,
elementary SCHOOL, and junior and senior high SCHOOLS, but excluding trade,
business, or commercial schools.
   SCREENING. The method by which a view of one site from another adjacent site
is shielded, concealed, or hidden. SCREENING techniques include fences, walls,
hedges, berms, or other features.
   SETBACK. The required minimum horizontal distance between the building line
and the related front, side, or rear property line.
   SHALL. The act referred to is always mandatory and never discretionary.
   SHOULD. The act referred to is advisory.
   SIDE LOT LINE. A lot boundary line other than a front or rear lot line.
   SIDE YARD. The yard between the main building and the side lot line,
extending from the front yard, or front lot line where no front yard is
required, to the rear yard. The width of the required SIDE YARD shall be
measured horizontally from the nearest point of the side lot line toward the
nearest point of the main building.
   SIGN. As defined in §
156.078 of this code.
   SOCIAL CLUB . Halls, buildings, lodges or areas, which are intended for use
by organizations or clubs (such as but not limited to moose lodge, elk clubs,
religious organizations, Boy Scouts, VFW's, etc.) and not generally open to the
public.
   SOLAR ENERGY GENERATING SYSTEM. A system that generates electrical energy
from sunlight.
   SOLAR PANEL. A module or panel capable of converting sunlight into
electrical current.
   SPA—FULL SERVICE. A commercial establishment providing facilities devoted to
health, fitness, weight loss, beauty, and relaxation. Activities include
manicures, pedicures, facials, massage, microdermabrasion, body treatments,
slimming wraps, sauna, and similar activities. Employees performing massages
must be licensed by the Indiana State Board of Massage Therapy pursuant to I.C.
25-21.8-4-2, as amended from time to time. Establishments which only provide
massages are not included in this definition, and are not a permitted use.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION. The authorization of a use that is designated thus by
this chapter as being permitted in the district concerned if it meets special
conditions, and upon application, is specifically authorized by law.
   STABLE, COMMERCIAL. A building, structure, or portion thereof, in which
horses, ponies, or like animals are boarded, trained, or kept for others, or
are available to the public for riding, with or without remuneration.
   STABLE, PRIVATE. A building, structure, or portion thereof, in which horses,
ponies, or like animals are kept for the private use of the property owner or
tenant, but not for hire, remuneration, or sale.
   STORY. The space between the upper surface of any floor and the next upper
surface of any floor or roof above, except that the topmost STORY shall be that
portion of a building included between the upper surface of the topmost floor
and the ceiling or roof above. A cellar or basement with more than one-half its
height below the average surrounding grade shall not be considered a STORY. A
HALF-STORY is a portion of a building between the eaves and ridge line of a
sloping roof.
   STREET. A public or private thoroughfare used, or intended to be used, for
passage or travel by motor vehicles.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building
or structure, such as bearing walls, partitions, columns, beams, or girders, or
any substantial change in the footprint or size of living space.
   SWIMMING POOL. As defined in §
156.039 of this code.
   TAVERN. A business establishment where alcoholic beverages are sold to be
consumed on the premises, but where a minor cannot be within the use and where
food or packaged liquors may be served or sold only as accessory to the primary
use.
   TESTING LABORATORIES. A building or group of buildings in which are located
facilities for scientific research, investigation, testing, or experimentation,
but not facilities for the manufacture or sale of products.
   THEATRES . Indoor movie houses or stages. Adult entertainment is excluded
and is covered under the adult entertainment definition.
   TOBACCO SALES. A business establishment where the primary retail offering is
tobacco and tobacco-related products. This includes, but is not limited to, the
sale of traditional tobacco products like cigarettes, cigars, and loose
tobacco, as well as e-liquids, e-cigarettes, and vape-style products. Related
paraphernalia is also included with this classification. Those items include,
but are not limited to, water pipes, related glassware, vape device components,
and the like.
   TRANSFER STATION. A facility to which solid waste is transferred from a
vehicle or a container to another vehicle or container for transportation. The
term does not include the following:
      (1)   A facility where the solid waste has been generated by the
facility; or
      (2)   A recycling facility.
   TRIPLEX. See DWELLING, THREE-FAMILY.
   USE. The purposes for which land, or building or structure thereon is
designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied, maintained, let,
or leased.
   USED FOR. Includes the words DESIGNED FOR and OCCUPIED FOR.
   VARIANCE, DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS. A specific approval granted by the Board of
Zoning Appeals in the manner prescribed by this chapter, to deviate from the
development standards (such as height or bulk) that the chapter otherwise
prescribes.
   VARIANCE, USE. The approval of a use other than that prescribed by this
chapter, an act granted by I.C. 36-7-4-918.4.
   VEHICLE REPAIR. Repairs made to any motorized vehicle including but not
limited to boats, cars, RV's, vans, motorcycles, ATV's, snowmobiles or any
other mode of motorized transportation or vehicle.
   WAREHOUSE. A building or lot used for storage that is rented or leased for
use by the proprietor.
   WHOLESALE GUN SALES.  A business, which sells firearms to other businesses
on a regular basis, either in person or by mail order. Firearms must have a
trigger lock, be secured in a locked room or case and the premises must be
alarmed when the business is not supervised.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS), COMMERCIAL. Any system, with a
capacity of greater than ten kilowatts (10 KW), that converts and then stores
or transfers energy from the wind into usable forms of energy and includes any
base, blade, foundation, generator, nacelle, rotor, tower, transformer,
turbine, vane, wind farm collection system, or other component used in the
system.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS), HORIZONTAL. A wind energy conversion
system where the rotor blades turn on a horizontal axis, or parallel to the
ground. May also be referred to as HORIZONTAL AXIS WIND TURBINE.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS), NON-COMMERCIAL. Any system, with a
capacity not exceeding ten kilowatts (10 KW), that converts and then stores or
transfers energy from the wind into usable forms of energy and includes any
base, blade, foundation, generator, nacelle, rotor, wind tower, transformer,
turbine, vane, wire, or other component used in the system.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS), VERTICAL. A wind energy conversion
system where the rotor blades turn on a vertical axis, or perpendicular to the
ground. May also be referred to as VERTICAL AXIS WIND TURBINE.
   YARD. Any open space located on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground up, except for accessory buildings or those
projections as are expressly permitted by this chapter.
   ZONING MAP. The Official Zoning Map of the town.
(Ord. 23, § 1.20.20, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 45, passed 4-15-1998; Am. Ord.
111, passed 7-15-2004; Am. Ord. 210, passed 9-11-2012; Am. Ord. 234, passed 5-
13-2014; Am. Ord. 299, passed 8-27-2019; Am. Ord. 27-C, passed 12-8-2020)
ZONING MAPS AND DISTRICTS
§ 156.020 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The town is hereby divided into zones, or districts, as listed in this
chapter and shown on the Official Zoning Map of the town which is hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The Official
Zoning Map shall be on file with the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   No changes of any nature shall be made on the Zoning Map except in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter and I.C. 36-7-4-100 et seq.
(Ord. 23, § 1.30.10, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 208, passed 6-26-2012; Am. Ord.
39A, passed 11-15-2016; Am. Ord. 208-A, passed 4-24-2018; Am. Ord. 298, passed
5-28-2019; Am. Ord. 208-C, passed 12-8-2020; Am. Ord. 319, passed 6-22-2021;
Am. Ord. 321, passed 9-28-2021; Am. Ord. 322, passed 10-12-2021; Am. Ord. 325,
passed 3-8-2022; Am. Ord. 326, passed 3-8-2022; Am. Ord. 337, passed 7-26-2022;
Am. Ord. 341, passed 1-10-2023; Am. Ord. 346, passed 2-28-2023; Am. Ord. 347,
passed 4-25-2023)
§ 156.021 ZONING DISTRICTS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the town is hereby divided into the
following districts:
   (A)   FP: floodplain;
   (B)   AG: agricultural;
   (C)   AG-B: agricultural business;
   (D)   R-1: low density residential;
   (E)   R-2: medium density residential;
   (F)   R-3: high density residential;
   (G)   R-4: residential;
   (H)   MF: multi-family residential;
   (I)   PD: planned development;
   (J)   C-1: neighborhood commercial;
   (K)   C-2: office commercial;
   (L)   C-3: general commercial; and
   (M)   M-1: light manufacturing.
(Ord. 23, § 1.30.20, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.022 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   District boundaries on the Zoning Map shall meet the following standards.
   (A)   Zoning district boundaries are intended to follow lot lines, or be
parallel or perpendicular thereto, follow fractional section lines or town
corporation lines, or follow along the centerlines of alleys, street rights-of-
way, railroad rights-of-way, or watercourses, unless the boundary lines are
fixed by dimensions shown on the Zoning Map.
   (B)   Where zoning district boundary lines are so indicated that they
approximately follow lot lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be those
boundary lines.
   (C)   Where a zoning district boundary line divides a lot, the location of
that zoning district boundary line, unless indicated by dimensions shown on the
Official Zoning Map, shall be determined by the use of the map scale shown
thereon.
   (D)   Where, due to lack of scale, lack of detail, illegibility of the
Official Zoning Map, or any other reason not herein covered, there is any
uncertainty, contradiction, or conflict as to the intended location of any
zoning district boundary as shown thereon, the Plan Commission shall make a
written interpretation of the map. Any person aggrieved by the written
interpretation may appeal the interpretation of the Plan Commission to the
Board of Zoning Appeals according to the standard procedures set forth in this
chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 1.30.30, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.023 ANNEXED TERRITORY; DISTRICT CLASSIFICATION.
   All territory which may be hereinafter annexed to the town shall
automatically, upon annexation, acquire the classification of AG.
(Ord. 23, § 1.30.40, passed 3-19-1997)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 156.035 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Applicability of regulations. All buildings erected hereafter, all
uses of land or buildings established hereafter, and all structural alterations
or relocation of existing buildings occurring hereafter shall be subject to all
regulations of this chapter and other applicable town ordinances which are
applicable to the zoning districts in which those buildings, uses, or land
shall be located.
   (B)   Relocation of structures. Any building or structure which has been
wholly or partially erected on any premises located within the town shall not
be moved and/or be placed upon any premises in the town until a building permit
for the removal shall have been received from the Building Administrator. Any
thus relocated building or structure shall conform to all the provisions of
this chapter in the same manner as a new building or structure. No building or
structure shall be moved into the town from outside the town limits until all
applicable permits and bonds have been completed.
   (C)   Permits issued prior to chapter. Where a building permit for a
building or structure has been issued in accordance with law prior to the
effective date of this chapter, and provided that substantial construction is
begun within six months of the effective date and diligently prosecuted to
completion, that building or structure may be completed in accordance with the
approved plans on the basis of which the building permit has been issued, and
further, may upon completion be occupied under a certificate of occupancy by
the use for which originally designed, subject thereafter to the provisions of
§ 156.037, regarding nonconforming uses and structures.
   (D)   Expiration of permits. 
      (1)   Where the Building Administrator has issued a permit for a use
permit, that permit shall automatically expire without further notice unless
the work allowed by the permit is substantially underway within six months of
the date of issuance of the permit by the Building Administrator.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         SUBSTANTIALLY UNDERWAY. A required first inspection, for the permit,
shall have been made and approved by the town Building Department.
   (E)   Special use permit. A special use permit shall be deemed to authorize
only one special use.
   (F)   Scope. Whenever the requirements of this chapter are at variance with
the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations, ordinances,
deed restrictions, or covenants generally consistent with this chapter, the
most restrictive or that imposing the higher standards shall be considered
valid and shall govern.
(Ord. 23, § 2.10.10, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 93, passed 7-17-2001)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.036 HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Permitted height. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter all
principal structures shall meet the height requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   General requirements. The height of public buildings, churches,
hospitals, and schools may exceed the height allowed in the applicable
district, provided that the building be set back from all lot lines not less
than one foot in addition to the required yard dimensions for each foot the
buildings exceed the height allowed in the district concerned, and that the
buildings not exceed 55 feet in height in any event.
   (C)   Exceptions to height restrictions. Chimneys, church steeples, elevator
bulkheads, water towers, grain elevators, silos, penthouses, stacks, stage
towers, tanks, pumping towers, monuments, cupolas, and other mechanical
appurtenances pertaining to and necessary to the permitted uses of the district
in which they are located shall not be included in calculating the height of
the principal structure. However, none of this type of structure may be erected
to be more than 15 feet above the height limits of the district in which it is
located; nor shall the structure have a total area greater than 10% of the roof
area of the building, nor shall the structure be used for any residential,
commercial, or industrial purpose other than a use incidental to the main use
of the building.
   (D)   Additional exceptions to height restrictions. Accessory structures in
AG districts not referenced in division (C) of this section shall not exceed 35
feet in height.
(Ord. 23, § 2.10.20, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 45, passed 4-15-1998; Am. Ord.
145-B, passed 12-8-2020) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.037 NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Nonconforming use or structure. Any lawful use of land or building as
of the effective date of this chapter and located in a district in which it
would not be permitted as a new use under the regulations of this chapter, is
hereby declared to be a nonconforming use and not in violation of this chapter
at the date of adoption of the chapter; provided, however, that a nonconforming
use shall be subject to, and the owner shall comply with, the following
regulations.
   (B)   Change of use.  
      (1)   A nonconforming use in a building or structure may be changed to
another nonconforming use of the same or greater restriction provided no
structural changes are made to the building. For purposes of this division,
districts are arranged in the following order from most restrictive to least
restrictive: FP, AG, AG-B, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, PD, MF, C-1, C-2, C-3, and M-1.
      (2)   Whenever a nonconforming use has been changed to a conforming use,
it shall not be changed back to a nonconforming use.
   (C)   Expansion of nonconforming use prohibited.
      (1)   A nonconforming use of a building shall not be expanded, nor shall
it be relocated on the same parcel.
      (2)   If only a portion of a building or structure houses a nonconforming
use, that nonconforming use shall not be expanded or extended within the
building.
   (D)   Amortization of nonconforming uses or buildings.
      (1)   Whenever a nonconforming use has been discontinued for a period of
one year, that use shall not be reestablished and any future use shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter. A nonconforming use shall be
presumed to be abandoned when the intent of the owner or occupant to
discontinue the nonconforming use is apparent to the reasonable person.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (D)(3) of this section, whenever a
nonconforming structure has been destroyed or damaged by fire, explosion, act
of God, or public enemy, by more than 50% of the nonconforming structure’s area
in square feet at the time the damage was incurred, the structure may not be
reconstructed unless the structure is made to conform to this chapter.
      (3)   Nonconforming structures used for agricultural purposes, as defined
in § 156.010 of this code, in an agricultural district are exempt from division
(D)(2) above provided they meet all of the following conditions:
         (a)   A new building permit is obtained from the town for the new
structure within one year of the destruction of the old structure;
         (b)   The new structure must replace an existing structure damaged per
division (D)(2) of this section;
         (c)   There shall be no more than a 10% increase in square footage
between the old and replacement structures;
         (d)   The replacement structure shall be located approximately on the
same physical location upon the property as the destroyed structure unless, in
the opinion of the Building Administrator, physical conditions make the site
unacceptable; and
         (e)   The replacement structure may be used for agricultural uses
only.
(Ord. 23, §§ 2.20.10 - 2.20.40, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 45, passed 4-15-
1998) Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.038 OVERLAY ZONES; FP, FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. It is the purpose of this section to address areas which, due
to the unique characteristics of geography, transportation, neighborhood
character, or other factors, demonstrate a need to provide for rules and
regulations over and above those of the underlying zoning district. The rules
and regulations established by the overlay zone shall be applied in addition to
any other applicable regulations established by this chapter.
   (B)   FP, floodplain overlay zone. All land lying within the regulated
floodplains in the town as indicated on the most recent Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) established by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) shall
comply with this division. When the proposed use is allowed by the underlying
zoning district the following restrictions shall apply.
      (1)   All uses and activity shall comply with this chapter and
Chapter 155, Subdivision Control.
      (2)   All uses and activity shall comply with
Chapter 153, Flood Damage Prevention.
      (3)   In the event of a conflict in language between this chapter or
Chapter 155 and
Chapter 153, the language in
Chapter 153 shall prevail.
      (4)   Any structure, filling, excavating, or any change in the natural
grade of any property in an FP district requires a permit, and shall not be
detrimental to other properties or the characteristics of the floodplain.
      (5)   Where topographic data, engineering studies, or other studies are
requested by the town to determine the effects of flooding on a structure or
the effects of the structure on the flow of water, the applicant shall submit
the data or studies and shall be solely responsible for all costs incident
thereto.
(Ord. 23, §§ 2.30.10 and 2.30.20, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.039 SWIMMING POOLS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Swimming pools.  
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to construct, maintain, install, or enlarge
any swimming pool in the town except in compliance with all the provisions of
this section.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         PRIVATE POOLS. Pools restricted to occupants of the principal use of
the property and guests for whom no admission or membership fees are charged.
Only PRIVATE POOLS are permitted in residential districts.
         SWIMMING POOL. An outdoor structure designed as a receptacle for
water, or an artificial pool of water having a depth at any point of more than
two feet, intended for the purpose of immersion or partial immersion therein of
human beings, and including all appurtenant equipment, whether the structure is
built in-ground, aboveground, or a combination thereof. SWIMMING POOLS of a
smaller size shall be deemed to be WADING POOLS and are not regulated under
this section.
   (B)   Location. No portion of an outdoor swimming pool shall be located at a
distance of less than ten feet from any side or rear property line, any
principal structure, or building line and shall not encroach on a side or rear
yard setback, or a dedicated easement, without obtaining a variance from the
Board of Zoning Appeals. Swimming pools are prohibited in front yards. All pool
appurtenances, such as decks, filtering equipment, or concrete pavement shall
be similarly restricted to the requirements of this division, as it pertains to
side and rear property lines and setbacks.
   (C)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful to proceed with the
construction, installation, enlargement, or alteration of any swimming pool and
appurtenances within the town unless a permit has first been obtained in
accordance with the procedures set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 23, §§ 2.60.10 - 2.60.14, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 41I, passed 2-15-
2010; Am. Ord. 234, passed 5-13-2014) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.040 HOBBY FARMS.
   Where district regulations permit hobby farms, hobby farms shall be allowed,
provided that:
   (A)   No building or structure shall be allowed in a floodplain district;
   (B)   Minimum lot size for a hobby farm shall be five acres;
   (C)   Livestock harbored, raised, or bred is primarily for personal
enjoyment and not for commercial gain. Commercial stables shall not be
permitted except as a special exception in the AG-B district;
   (D)   Animals shall be limited as follows:
      (1)   Not more than two horses, ponies, steers, bulls, cows, or a
combination thereof shall be permitted on the first five acres. Two additional
horses, ponies, steers, bulls, or cows, or a combination thereof, may be
permitted on each additional five acres or portion thereof;
      (2)   Horses, ponies, bulls, cows, and steers shall not be permitted to
graze within 50 feet of a neighboring residence (house). No animal shelter
shall be permitted closer than 150 feet to a neighboring residence;
      (3)   Small animals such as sheep, goats, or swine shall be limited to a
maximum of one per acre, and shall not be permitted within 150 feet of a
neighboring residence (house); and
      (4)   Poultry, fowl, rabbits, and similar animals shall be limited to 100
total animals per five acres and kept in a shelter placed a minimum of 150 feet
from any neighboring residence (house).
   (E)   Keeping of more animals than permitted in division (D) above shall not
be permitted unless first approved by special exception as prescribed in this
chapter; and
   (F)   Hobby farms shall not be permitted in subdivisions unless 80% of the
platted lots are five acres or more in area.
(Ord. 23, § 2.60.20, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.041 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   General regulations.
      (1)   Detached accessory structures shall not be allowed in front yards.
      (2)   Accessory structures are not to be used for human occupancy.
      (3)   On corner lots, detached accessory structures shall meet front yard
setbacks on each street frontage.
      (4)   No detached accessory structure shall be placed within six feet of
any other principal or accessory structures.
      (5)   Accessory structures must be placed at least five feet from any lot
line and shall not encroach on a dedicated easement, without obtaining a
variance from the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (B)   Accessory structures in agricultural districts.
      (1)   No animals may be housed, stabled, or kenneled less than 150 feet
from any property line.
      (2)   Height restrictions shall comply with §
156.036 of this code.
   (C)   Accessory structures in residential districts.
      (1)   The accessory structure shall be located on the same lot as the
principal structure.
      (2)   The cumulative square footage of all detached accessory structures
shall not exceed the sum of 25% of the required rear yard plus 40% of the non-
required rear yard of the principal structure, but in no event shall the
cumulative square footage exceed the ground floor area of the principal
structure and any attached garage.
      (3)   Detached accessory structures shall be allowed only in rear yards.
      (4)   Detached accessory structures shall not be served by water or
sewer/septic services.
      (5)   Height of detached accessory structure shall not exceed 17 feet.
      (6)   Accessory structures shall be used only for those uses permitted in
the residential district in which they are located, except as otherwise
prohibited herein.
(Ord. 23, § 2.60.30, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 45, passed 4-15-1998; Am. Ord.
93, passed 7-17-2001; Am. Ord. 41I, passed 2-15-2010; Am. Ord. 234, passed 5-
13-2014) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.042 CHICKEN RAISING.
   For any property that is a nonconforming, agriculture (AG) zoned lot of one
to four acres and residential (R-l) zoned lots of one acre or greater, chicken
raising shall be permitted subject to the following criteria.
   (A)   No more than eight female chickens are permitted per lot improved with
a single-family dwelling.
   (B)   There must be at least four square feet per chicken of permeable land
area available for chickens, plus adequate, freestanding, enclosed shelter
space to protect the chickens from the elements, and to prevent wildlife or
other predators from gaining entry. Chickens shall not be allowed to roam
freely within the bounds of the property on which they are housed. Adequate
fencing shall be provided to prevent the chickens from escaping when not in
their shelters. The outside pen shall be completely enclosed on all sides and
topped with wire to prevent the escape of any chicken.
   (C)   Premises must be maintained in a sanitary condition, free from insects
and rodents, offensive odors, excessive noise, or any other conditions
constituting a public nuisance.
   (D)   At any one time, only one chicken shelter or pen is permitted on any
property.
   (E)   No roosters may be kept on any property under this section.
   (F)   Chickens permitted in this section are only for personal use. No
business, field trip, or tour activities related to the chickens are allowed.
   (G)   Structures constructed for chickens (coops, shelters, and the like)
shall be permitted through the town Building Department, and held to the same
construction and setback standards detailed in §
156.041.
   (H)   The limitations in this section shall not apply to properties
conforming to hobby farm standards as described in §
156.040.
(Ord. 23, § 2.60.20, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 23-B, passed 3-8-2022)
§ 156.043 COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN REVIEW/APPROVAL.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   Development plan review shall be required in all commercial zoning,
M4 Planned Development-Commercial (PD-C) Districts, Commercial uses in Planned
Development-Mixed (PD-M) Districts, and Agricultural Business (AG-B) Districts,
in accordance with I.C. §§ 36-7-4-1400 through 36-7-4-1406, inclusive, as
outlined hereafter.
      (2)   At any time a property owner seeks to apply for approval to begin
new construction or to modify an existing structure such that it results in
either an increase or decrease of total square footage of the structure of 25%
or more in a geographic area zoned or to be zoned as C-l, C-2, C-3, M-l, PD-C,
PD-M, or AG-B the property owner/petitioner shall prepare a preliminary
development plan for submission to the Plan Commission.
      (3)   No person or business entity shall be permitted to operate a
business on a location, subject to this chapter, without first obtaining
approval of a development plan by the Plan Commission.
   (B)   Development plan submission. To initiate the procedure for review and
approval of a preliminary development plan, the property owner/petitioner shall
submit the proposed plan to the Zoning Administrator. The initial submission
shall:
      (1)   Be made on forms available at the office of the Zoning
Administrator and be submitted with the fee as set forth in §
150.26.
      (2)   Be accompanied by ten hard copies and one PDF electronic copy of
the proposed preliminary development plan.
      (3)   Be accompanied by documentation indicating proof of an ownership
interest in the subject property, such as but not limited to a deed, purchase
contract, or a power of attorney, for review by the Commission's Attorney.
      (4)   Be filed by the first day of the month in which the petitioner will
be attending the Plan Commission study session required below.
   (C)   Review procedure. The procedure for review and approval of the
preliminary development plan shall he as follows:
      (1)   Petitioner shall attend a plan commission study session, as
scheduled by the zoning administrator. At that study session, the petitioner
shall provide sufficient individual copies of their proposed plan for all
members of the Plan Commission. The petitioner will briefly describe their plan
and receive comments from the Commission and staff.
      (2)   Petitioner shall then appear before the Technical Advisory
Committee (TAC) for the committee's review. After review, the TAC shall take
one of the following actions:
         (a)   Recommendation to Plan Commission for approval;
         (b)   Recommendation to Plan Commission for denial;
         (c)   Recommendation to submit additional information for review; or
         (d)   Recommendation to Plan Commission for approval with
modifications.
      (3)   The petitioner may appeal a decision of the TAC to the Plan
Commission.
      (4)   Following review by the TAC, petitioner shall appear at a regular
or special Plan Commission public meeting to describe and present the final
concepts, uses and intent of the proposed plan for consideration. After review,
the Plan Commission shall take one of the following actions:
         (a)   Approval;
         (b)   Denial;
         (c)   Carry over for further consideration at the next regularly
scheduled meeting;
         (d)   Request the petitioner to submit additional information for
review, either by the Plan Commission or the TAC;
         (e)   Approval with conditions, if the conditions are reasonably
necessary to satisfy the intent of this chapter; or
         (f)   Approval with written commitments, executed by the petitioner.
   (D)   Remedies. All remedies available to the Plan Commission shall be the
same as those contained in §
155.014 of the subdivision control ordinance. The review fee shall be that as
set forth in town code §
150.26 for development plan review.
   (E)   Plan requirements. The preliminary development plan shall include both
a map and written text and drawings in an electronic form containing the
following information. The drawing format must be in either the current or
previous version of the AutoDesk AutoCAD software. The submittal shall be
provided to the town in a standard form of magnetic or optical media that is
readable by the town information systems. Alternate drawing formats or means of
submittal may be accepted upon prior approval from the town.
      (1)   Elevation and perspective drawing or model of proposed structures.
      (2)   A development schedule indicating:
         (a)   The approximate date for beginning construction;
         (b)   If staged, the approximate date for beginning construction of
each stage;
         (c)   Agreements, provisions or covenants which govern the use,
maintenance and continued protection of the development and common space;
         (d)   Plans and diagrams as required to fully explain the development
proposal;
      (3)   Petitioner shall designate each lot's intensity of use on the plan;
      (4)   A detailed, written review of the following factors relevant to the
development:
         (a)   Availability and coordination of water, sanitary sewers, storm
water drainage, and other utilities;
         (b)   Management of vehicular and pedestrian traffic in a manner that
creates conditions favorable to health, safety, convenience, and the harmonious
development of the community;
         (c)   Building set back lines;
         (d)   Building coverage;
         (e)   Building separation;
         (f)   Parking;
         (g)   Landscaping;
         (h)   Height, scale, materials and style of improvements;
         (i)   Signage;
         (j)   Outdoor lighting; and
         (k)   Noise;
      (5)   The development factors specified in number subdivision (E)(4)(a)
above, concerning the availability and coordination of water, sanitary sewers,
storm water drainage and other utilities shall be in full compliance with the
subdivision control ordinance, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (6)   The development factors specified in subdivision (E)(4)(b) above,
concerning the management of vehicular and pedestrian traffic shall ensure the
following:
         (a)   That the design and location of proposed street and highway
access points minimize safety hazards and congestion;
         (b)   That the capacity of adjacent streets and highways is sufficient
to safely and efficiently accept traffic that will be generated by the new
development; and
         (c)   That the entrances, streets and internal traffic circulation
facilities in the development plan are compatible with existing and planned
streets and adjacent developments;
      (7)   The development factors specified in subdivision (E)(4)(c), (d),
(e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) concerning building setback liens, building
coverage, building separation, parking, landscaping, height and materials, and
signage shall be in full compliance with the requirements set forth in the
zoning ordinance, as it may be amended from time to time. Additionally, with
regard to subdivision (E)(4)(h), knox boxes shall be required to be installed
on businesses that are not occupied 24 hours a day;
      (8)   The development factors specified in subdivision (E)(4)(j) above
concerning outdoor lighting shall comply with §
156.048 of this Code;
      (9)   The development factors specified in subdivision (E)(4)(k)
concerning noise shall only apply to development in a Light Industrial (M-I)
District and shall ensure that the development complies with §
156.326; and
      (10)   The plan documentation and supporting information that must be
supplied shall include the following:
         (a)   The location and character of the following:
            1.   Existing and proposed primary structures and accessory
structures;
            2.   Utilities;
            3.   Signage; and
            4.   Landscaping.
         (b)   The nature and intensity of uses in the development;
         (c)   The condition and size of public thoroughfares and parking,
vehicles, and pedestrian facilities; and
         (d)   The location and capacity of drainage facilities and sewer
systems serving the development.
(Ord. 191, passed 6-15-2010; Am. Ord. 234, passed 5-13-2014; Am. Ord. 285,
passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.044 (RESERVED).
§ 156.045 BUILDING MATERIAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BRICK. Manufactured of clay and shale masonry units. Primary raw
materials include surface clays, fire clays, shales, or combinations of these.
Units are formed by extrusion, molding or dry-pressing and are fired in a kiln
at temperatures between 1800° Fahrenheit and 2100° Fahrenheit (980° Celsius and
1150° Celsius). Units include a range of colors, textures, sizes, and physical
properties. Material standards for brick and structural clay tile include: ASTM
C216 (facing brick), ASTM C62 (building brick), ASTM C652 (hollow brick), ASTM
C212 (structural clay facing tile), and ASTM C34 (structural clay load-bearing
tile).
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance on a building, measured from the
average elevation of the finished grade within 20 feet of the structure to the
highest point on the roof.
      CONCRETE MASONRY UNITS. Hollow and solid load bearing and non-load
bearing units made from Portland cement, water, and mineral aggregate. CONCRETE
MASONRY UNITS manufactured under this specification shall conform to the
specified density classifications and compressive strength requirements of ASTM
C90 standards.
      DECORATIVE CONCRETE MASONRY UNITS. Includes concrete masonry units with
finished surfaces, including burnished, split faced, indented, hammered,
fluted, ribbed or similar architectural finish; coloration shall be integral to
the masonry material and shall not be painted on; minimum thickness of three
and five-eighths inches when applied as a veneer; shall include light weight
and featherweight concrete block or cinder block units.
      MASONRY MATERIALS. Includes that form of construction defined below and
composed of clay brick, stone, decorative concrete block, rock or other
materials of equal characteristics laid up unit by unit set in mortar.
      NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS. Those buildings utilized for use other than
single-family, two-family and multiple family dwelling related to accessory use
as a primary non-residential building.
      POST FRAME BUILDING CONSTRUCTION.  A post frame building is characterized
by primary structural frames of posts as columns and trusses or rafters as roof
framing. Post framed construction shall include steel, light-gauge metal and
wood constructions. The roof framing is attached to the posts, either directly
or indirectly through structural headers. Posts are embedded in the soil and
supported by isolated footings, or are attached at the top of piers, concrete
or masonry walls, slabs-on-grade, or other suitable foundations. Secondary
framing members, purlins in the roof and girts in the walls, are attached to
the primary framing members to provide lateral support and to transfer
sheathing loads, both in-plane and out-of-plane, to the posts and roof framing.
Structures are sheathed with a wide variety of materials. See the below diagram
for this type of construction
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2049.jpg]
 
      PRECAST CONCRETE PANELS. Includes reinforced concrete systems, fabricated
off-site and installed on-site. Precast systems shall be structural systems and
shall be covered by defined masonry materials that can be laid up unit by unit
set in mortar and meet the required percentage of coverage as defined in this
chapter.
      RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS. Those buildings utilized for a single-family, two-
family, and multiple family dwelling, related to accessory use as a primary
residential unit.
      STONE. Includes naturally occurring granite, marble, limestone, slate,
river rock, and other similar hard and durable all weather stone that is
customarily used in exterior building construction; may also include cast or
manufactured stone product, provided that such product yields a highly textured
stonelike appearance, its coloration is integral to the masonry material and
shall not be painted on. and it is demonstrated to be highly durable and
maintenance free; natural or manmade stone shall have a minimum thickness of
two and five-eighths inches when applied as a veneer.
      UNACCEPTABLE EXTERIOR MATERIALS. The following materials shall not
qualify nor be defined as MASONRY CONSTRUCTION in meeting the minimum
requirements for exterior construction of buildings:
         (a)   Stucco, exterior plaster, adobe or mortar wash surface material;
         (b)   Exterior insulation and finish systems (EIFS) such as Dryvit,
acrylic matrix, synthetic plaster, or other similar synthetic material;
         (c)   Cementitious fiber board siding (such as "Hardy Plank" or "Hardy
Board").
   (B)   Exterior construction requirements.
      (1)   Residential construction standards.
         (a)   All principal and accessory buildings located in the multi-
family (MF) and R-4 residential zoning districts shall have at least 30% of the
total exterior walls, excluding doors and windows, constructed of brick, stone,
or a combination of both materials. Stucco and/or exceptions to the above
requirements may be considered by the Plan Commission on case-by-case basis.
            1.   The structure shall have a change of roof plane, gable, or
dormer on both the front and the rear for each dwelling unit. Units that are on
corners shall have same for all sides that face a public street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2051.jpg]
 
            2.    Sloped roof pitch shall not be less than 8/12 on the primary
roof and less than 3/12 on lesser roofs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2053.jpg]
 
         (b)   Single-family residential construction requirements.
            1.   Dwelling units/homes with 2,000 square feet of finished living
space or less must have masonry coverage of at least 25% on the front facade,
constructed of brick, stone, or a combination of both materials. Stucco and/or
exceptions to the above requirements may be considered by the Zoning
Administrator on a case-by-case basis.
            2.   Dwelling units/homes must have overhanging eaves of at least
12 inches in length.
            3.   Dwelling units/homes must have variation on the front facade
elevation via changes in roofline and bump-outs.
            4.   For dwelling units/homes on corner lots, each facade facing a
public or private street shall be treated as a front facade.
      (2)   Non-residential construction standards. The following standards
apply to all new non-residential building construction and any building
expansion of 25% or more in floor area or a significant change in use of the
building from one occupancy to another occupancy in accordance with the
established building codes:
         (a)   All non-residential buildings shall be constructed of exterior
fire-resistant construction having at least 80% of the total exterior walls
excluding doors and windows, constructed of severe weather rated brick, stone,
split faced concrete textured surface block or glass wall construction, in
accordance with the town's Building Code and Fire Prevention Code.
         (b)   Building front and side facades or any portion that has exposure
to a public or private street, residential zoning districts, or any public
exposure, including parking lot exposure for pad sites and freestanding
buildings, shall be constructed entirely 100% of severe weather rated stone,
brick, or glass wall construction. Strict adherence to this rule shall not be
such as to prevent architectural creativity. Other materials or a combination
of severe weather rated brick, stone and other materials may be considered
based on architectural creativity by the Plan Commission.
         (c)   Metal buildings and steel post frame or wood post frame building
construction is prohibited in all commercial zoning districts.
         (d)   Building materials.
            1.   Each building elevation shall provide architectural features
such as columns, reveals, articulations, or changes in building materials,
architectural styles or ornamentation and color to break up long facades
exceeding 20 feet.
            2.   All buildings shall be designed with a minimum of six external
corners, in order to eliminate the impact of box-looking design for the
buildings. Corners created as a result of the placement of doors and windows do
not count towards this total.
            3.   Building exteriors shall exhibit variation in design and view
of the structure. A minimum of three materials shall be used for building
exteriors.
            4.   Exposed concrete, smooth surface concrete block, or metal
finishes shall not be permitted in non-residential zoning districts unless
approved as part of the design by waiver approval.
            5.   EIFS may generally be used as accent material for window head,
sill or cornices around the building. EIFS shall not be permitted as a primary
building material.
         (e)   Roofs.
            1.   Sloped roofs shall be composed of standing rib (standing seam)
or dimensional shingles in a color that matches the building and surrounding
commercial district.
            2.    Sloped roof planes shall be broken up with changes of plane,
or gables or dormers.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2055.jpg]
            3.    Sloped roof pitch shall not be less than 6/12.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2057.jpg]
 
            4.    The roof shall be a key architectural element of the building
designed to express the building and to promote the overall scale and character
of the district.
            5.    The roof form of new construction shall have a recognizable
"top" and vary with modern expressions of parapets, gables, overhanging eaves,
chimneys, brackets, and cornices.
            6.   All rooftop mechanicals including, but not limited to HVAC
must be screened from view.
            7.   A waiver may be granted to correspond with the design theme
and overall aesthetics that a development/building is attempting to achieve by
the Plan Commission during the commercial development plan review/approval
process outlined in this chapter.
         (f)   Entryways. Entryways shall use creative entry treatments and
focal points such as canopies, awnings, cornice treatments, or atriums.
         (g)   Carports constructed entirely out of metal are not permitted.
Carports shall be compatible in design and material with the main structure.
         (h)   Parking lots.
            1.   Parking lots shall be designed to provide coordinated access
to parking areas on adjoined tracts or parcels.
            2.   New access points onto main thoroughfares shall be coordinated
with existing access points to the extent possible.
            3.   All parking areas and drives shall be paved with asphalt or
concrete. Brick pavers or other decorative pavements may be used as accents in
parking area design. Cast-in-place concrete curbs shall be installed.
         (i)   Requirements for large industrial buildings.
 
0 - 50,000 sq. ft.         75% brick or stone veneer on all sides of the
                           building(s)
50,001 - 100,000 sq. ft.   50% brick or stone veneer on all sides of the
                           building(s)
100,001 sq. ft. and larger 25% brick or stone veneer on front facade and side
                           facade if siding on a street.
 
      (3)   Waivers.
         (a)   Exceptions to these requirements may be considered by the Plan
Commission based upon the following:
            1.   Architectural design and creativity;
            2.   Compatibility with surrounding developed properties.
         (b)   The Plan Commission, upon application duly filed by the
applicant, may grant a waiver from the terms of this section, as amended from
time to time, and the requirements set forth herein during the commercial
development plan review/approval process upon affirmative vote of the Plan
Commission acting on such waiver application. The application for a waiver
shall set forth in specific language the grounds or reasons upon which such a
waiver request is being made.
         (c)   The terms and conditions of the waiver, if approved, shall be
set forth in the minutes of the meeting.
   (C)   Nonconforming buildings. Where a lawful building exist at the
effective date of the adoption or amendment of this chapter and said building
could not be built under the terms of this section, it may continue so long as
it remains lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   Such a building may not be enlarged by more than 25% of its
existing foundation footprint unless the entire building is brought into
conformance with the terms and requirements of this section.
      (2)   The exterior walls of such a building may not be modified, altered,
or enlarged in a way which increases its nonconformity unless the modification,
alteration, or enlargement is in conformance with the provisions of this
section.
      (3)   In the event that a building is destroyed by any means to an extent
more than 50% of its replacement cost at the time of destruction, it shall not
be reconstructed except in conformance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Penalties. Any person, firm or corporation that violates, disobeys,
omits, neglects, or refuses to comply with, or who resist in the enforcement of
any of the provisions of this section, as amended, shall be fined $250 for each
offense. Each day that a violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
The penalty should not be construed as exclusive, and the town hereby provides
that any other remedy available to it. in law or in equity, may be utilized and
implemented in the enforcement of this section.
(Ord. 210, passed 9-11-2012; Am. Ord. 210-A, passed 12-10-2015; Am. Ord. 191-A,
passed 12-8-2020)
§ 156.046 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS (WECS).
   (A)   Intended purpose. This section provides regulations for wind energy
conversion systems (WECS) as an alternative energy-providing source. These
regulations shall guide the safe and effective use and installation of WECS
throughout the town.
   (B)   All lots in all zoning districts shall be permitted to install
noncommercial WECS, provided they are in compliance with the applicable
requirements set forth in this chapter. A maximum of one noncommercial WECS may
be permitted on each lot after site plan review and approval of the town staff,
including the proposed location of the WECS.
   (C)   Roof mounted noncommercial WECS shall be permitted in all
nonresidential zoning districts, provided they do not exceed 15 feet in height
and only service the building or lot on which it is located.
   (D)   Roof mounted noncommercial WECS shall be permitted, subject to the
conditions below, in all residential zoning districts, provided that they do
not exceed six feet in height, measured from the peak of the roof to the center
of WECS. In addition, the roof-mounted WECS shall have a minimum clearance of
two feet from the roof peak to the blade tip at its lowest point. A roof-
mounted WECS is prohibited in any required setback and shall only be located in
an area bounded by the roof peak of the residence, the side yard setback and
rear yard setback. Roof-mounted WECSs are prohibited from being located on any
face of a residence facing any street from roof peak toward the street.
   (E)   All WECS towers shall require a building permit. The permit
application shall include the design of the tower and its components, as well
as the safety mechanisms to prevent uncontrolled rotation, overspeeding, and
excessive pressure of the structure. Towers shall also be subject to the
following provisions:
      (1)   The minimum required setback distance between each noncommercial
tower and all surrounding property lines, overhead utility lines, any dwellings
or other buildings for occupancy, and any other towers, shall be no less than
two times the proposed structure height plus the rotor radius. Horizontal WECS
shall be allowed a minimum setback equal to five rotor diameters, or the height
of the tower, whichever is greater.
      (2)   WECS non-commercial towers shall only be permitted in lots in
excess of five acres.
      (3)   The minimum required setback distance between each commercial tower
and all surrounding property lines, overhead utility lines, any dwellings or
other buildings shall be 1,000 feet.
      (4)   The maximum height of a WECS tower, measured from the ground to the
highest point of the structures, shall be as follows:
         (a)   Residential, Agricultural, and Commercial Zoning Districts: 45
feet when ground-mounted;
         (b)   Light Manufacturing Zoning Districts: 80 feet.
      (5)   No towers shall be placed as to interfere with or obstruct any
transmission of communication equipment or reception.
      (6)   All local, state, and federal regulations shall be followed in the
use, installation, and operation of such WECS.
      (7)   No towers shall be placed as to substantially interfere with any
view, be directly visible from any public right-of-way, or placed on the front
yard.
      (8)   The minimum vertical clearance from the ground to the rotor blade
tip at its lowest point shall be 25 feet.
      (9)   A minimum six-foot height security fence shall be required at the
base of all towers, unless the climbing apparatus for the tower is more than 12
feet from the ground or completely enclosed inside the apparatus.
      (10)   All power lines and other related wiring shall be underground.
   (F)   The noise level for all WECSs shall not exceed 55 dB when measured at
the property line.
   (G)   Noncommercial WECSs must have been approved under small wind
certification program recognized by the American Wind Energy Association and
the Small Wind Certification Council (SWCC).
   (H)   WECSs shall be painted a non-reflective, non-obtrusive color such as
the manufacturer’s default color option or a color that compliments the
building architecture.
   (I)   WECS towers shall maintain galvanized steel, brushed aluminum or white
finish, unless F.A.A. standards required otherwise. The town staff may require
a photo of WECS of the same model that is the subject of the landowner’s
application adjacent to a building or some other object illustrating scale
(e.g., manufacturer’s photo).
   (J)   Building permit applications for all WECS shall be accompanied by
standard drawings of the wind turbine structure, including the tower, base, and
footings. An engineering analysis of the tower showing compliance with the
Building Code and certified by a licensed professional engineer shall also be
submitted. This analysis is frequently supplied by the manufacturer. Wet stamps
shall not be required. An equipment package shall be considered certified for
interconnection operation if it has been tested and listed by a nationally
recognized testing and certification laboratory in compliance with the state
provisions.
   (K)   Building permit applications for all WECS shall be accompanied by a
line drawing of the electrical components in sufficient detail to allow for a
determination that the manner of installation conforms to the town’s Electrical
Code.
   (L)   In the event a WECS is intended to be interconnected with a utility,
no WECS shall be installed until evidence has been provided to the town that
the utility company has been informed of the customer’s intent to install an
interconnected customer-owned generator and an interconnection agreement
between the utility and the customer have been executed. Interconnection must
comply with Underwriters Laboratory (UL) standard 1741, as amended from time to
time.
   (M)   The owner shall install, operate, and maintain the WECSs in accordance
with the manufacturer’s suggested practices for safe, efficient, and reliable
operation in parallel to the utility’s system.
   (N)   WECS shall not be used for displaying any advertising except for
reasonable identification of the manufacturer or operator of the wind turbine.
   (O)   Unused or abandoned WECS shall be removed from any site within 180
days from the discontinuation of use.
   (P)   In addition to the applicable standards stated above, commercial WECSs
shall be allowed only in the Agricultural-Business (AG-B) Zoning District by
special exception, as found in § 156.357.
(Ord. 210, passed 9-11-2012; Am. Ord. 234, passed 5-13-2014)
§ 156.047 SOLAR ENERGY GENERATING SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Intended purpose. This section provides regulations for solar energy
generating systems as an alternative energy-providing source. These regulations
shall guide the safe and effective use and installation of solar energy
generating systems throughout the town.
   (B)   All buildings shall be allowed to incorporate solar energy systems in
their design, provided they are in compliance with the applicable requirements
set forth in this chapter, including all lot and setback requirements. A
building permit shall be required for all such systems.
   (C)   Solar energy generating systems shall comply with the following:
      (1)   Solar panels shall be roof-mounted or ground-mounted in the rear
yard only.
      (2)   Ground-mounted solar panels shall not exceed eight feet in height
at maximum tilt, and shall be sufficiently screened from public or private
streets.
      (3)   The total area of solar collectors on a residential lot shall not
exceed 600 square feet per dwelling unit.
   (D)   Unused or abandoned solar energy generating structures shall be
removed from any site within 180 days from the discontinuation of use.
   (E)   Building permit applications for all solar energy generating
structures shall be accompanied by a line drawing of the electrical components
in sufficient detail to allow for a determination that the manner of
installation conforms to the town’s Electrical Code.
   (F)   In the event, the solar energy system is intended to be interconnected
with a utility, no solar energy generating structure shall be installed until
evidence has been provided to the town that the utility company has been
informed of the customer’s intent to install an interconnected customer-owned
generator and an interconnection agreement between the utility and the customer
have been executed. Interconnection must comply with Underwriters Laboratory
(UL) standard 1741, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 210, passed 9-11-2012; Am. Ord. 317, passed 4-13-2021)
§ 156.048 OUTDOOR LIGHTING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Applicability. All zoning lots in all existing zoning districts and in
all zoning districts that may be created after the effective date of this
chapter shall comply with the provisions of this chapter unless specifically
exempted herein.
   (B)   Conformance.
      (1)   Compliance for all non-conforming uses. Any existing luminaire
installation used for outdoor lighting in any zoning district that does not
presently comply with the requirements of this chapter will be considered a
legal nonconforming use. Except as set forth in division (B)(2), such non-
conforming uses must comply with the current requirements or must be removed if
any of the following occur:
         (a)   The height or location of the luminaire is changed;
         (b)   The luminaire is changed or replaced (excluding routine
maintenance and bulb replacement of equal light output) except if it is part of
a parking lot lighting installation consisting of an array of three or more
identical luminaires and poles or supporting structures;
         (c)   The supporting structure for the luminaire is changed or
replaced except if it is part of a parking-lot lighting installation consisting
of an array of three or more identical luminaires and poles or supporting
structures; or
         (d)   The luminaire is producing glare that is deemed to create a
hazard or nuisance by the town.
      (2)   Criteria requiring full compliance or complete removal. In the
event that a cumulative total of 50% or more of the non-conforming luminaires
or their supporting structures are changed, replaced (excluding routine
maintenance and bulb replacement of equal light output), or relocated, then all
of the luminaire installations must be removed or comply with the current
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Illumination standards.
      (1)   Gross emission of light. The total light output from all luminaires
used for outdoor lighting on any zoning lot in a commercial lighting zone shall
not exceed 100,000 lumens per net acre. Lighting installations located under
canopies shall only contribute 50% toward this limit. This section shall not
apply to street lighting, outdoor display lots, lighting installations for non-
internally illuminated signage not exceeding 800 lumens, and outdoor lighting
of playing fields on public property.
      (2)   Light intensity and uniformity.
         (a)   Commercial and industrial lighting zones. During permitted hours
of operation as defined within this chapter, outdoor lighting on any zoning lot
in a commercial or industrial lighting zone shall comply with the following
requirements for light level as measured in the plane of the illuminated
surface:
Illuminated Surface Minimum Light Level Maximum Light Level
Illuminated Surface                    Minimum Light Level Maximum Light Level
Non-internally - illuminated signs,    - -                 5.0 footcandles
building, and ground - (light color)
Non-internally - illuminated signs,    - -                 10.0 footcandles
building, and ground - (medium color)
Non-internally - illuminated signs,    - -                 15.0 footcandles
building, and ground - (dark color)
Auto dealerships:                      - -                 20.0 footcandles
   Front row and feature displays   - -                 10.0 footcandles
   Other merchandise areas
Public parking areas*                  - -                 5.0 footcandles
Vehicular entrances from right-of-way* 0.2 footcandles     4.5 footcandles
Baseball/softball playing fields-
infield                                - -                 60.0 footcandles
Baseball/softball playing fields-      - -                 30.0 footcandles
outfield                               - -                 30.0 footcandles
All other fields or tennis courts
Automobile service station - pumping   10.0 footcandles    30.0 footcandles
area
Drive-in/drive-through canopies        - -                 15.0 footcandles
Building entrance and exit*            1.0 footcandles     5.0 footcandles
Stairways and steps*                   1.0 footcandles     5.0 footcandles
*Maximum to minimum light level ratio shall not exceed 15:1.
 
         (b)   Outdoor dynamic display (digital signage). The luminance for any
outdoor dynamic display (digital signage) shall not exceed 5000 Nits during
daylight hours or 150 Nits at all other times. Brightness must be measured from
the brightest element of the sign's face. The applicant shall provide written
certification from the sign manufacturer that the light intensity has been
factory pre-set so that it will not exceed the luminance levels for day and
night.
      (3)   Light direction and control.
         (a)   Residential, commercial, and industrial lighting zones. Any
luminaire which is used for uplighting on any zoning lot in a residential,
commercial, or industrial lighting zone shall have the necessary shielding and/
or beam-angle control and/or shall be aimed to substantially confine the
directed light to the object intending to be illuminated. Uplighting shall only
be permitted for landscape lighting, flag lighting, and lighting of ground-
mounted signs that are not internally illuminated. Uplighting applications
shall meet the following requirements:
 
Uplighting Application Maximum Inclination Maximum Light Output
Landscape lighting     60°                1100 lumens3 (up to 45°)
                                           800 lumens4 (up tp 60°)
Flag lighting1         60°                1100 lumens3 (up to 45°)
                                           800 lumens4 (up to 60°)
Sign lighting2         45°                1100 lumens3
1The tradition of lowering flags at sunset is encouraged to avoid the need
for lighting.
2Ground-mounted, non-internally-illuminated signs only.
3Typical 75W incandescent bulb or 50W low-voltage halogen landscape bulb.
4Typical 60W incandescent bulb or 35W low-voltage halogen landscape bulb.
 
         (b)   Residential lighting zones. Any luminaire with a light output
exceeding 1100 lumens or 75 watts, which is used for outdoor lighting on any
zoning lot in a residential lighting zone shall have the necessary shielding
and/or beam-angle control and/or shall be aimed so that the direction of all
directly emitted light is at or below horizontal. If a motion-activated sensor
that illuminates for no more than five minutes upon activation is used, then
such luminaire may have a light output of up to 2200 lumens or 150 watts. Any
luminaire with a light output exceeding 2200 lumens or 150 watts, which is used
for outdoor lighting on any zoning lot in a residential lighting zone shall
have the necessary shielding and/or beam-angle control and/or shall be aimed so
that the light source is not visible along any property line, as viewed at a
height of 60 inches above grade.
         (c)   Commercial or industrial lighting zones. Except as otherwise
stated herein, any luminaire on any zoning lot in a commercial or industrial
lighting zone which emits light directed at a building or outdoor feature shall
be located at or above the top of the object and aimed and controlled so that
the direction of all emitted light is at or below horizontal and the directed
light is angled downward substantially confined to the object intending to be
illuminated (example: flag, statue, and related).
      (4)   Light trespass.
         (a)   Except for street lighting, light emitted from outdoor lighting
on any zoning lot shall not cause the light level along any property line, as
measured at a height of 60 inches above grade in a plane at any angle of
inclination, to exceed the following limits:
 
Emitting Zoning Lot       Impacted Zoning Lot            Maximum Light Level
Residential Lighting Zone Residential Lighting Zone      0.0 footcandles
Residential Lighting Zone Commercial/Industrial Lighting 0.5 footcandles
                          Zone
Commercial/Industrial     Residential Lighting Zone      0.0 footcandles
Lighting Zone
Commercial/Industrial     Commercial/Industrial Lighting 0.5 footcandles
Lighting Zone             Zone
Public Lighting Zone      Commercial Lighting Zone       0.5 footcandles
Public Lighting Zone      Residential Lighting Zone      0.0 footcandles
 
         (b)   Any property used for governmental purposes shall be exempt from
the requirements of this section.
      (5)   Permitted hours for outdoor lighting.
         (a)   Commercial and industrial lighting zone. Except for street
lighting, outdoor lighting (including, but not limited to, parking lot, area,
architectural, landscape, and related) on any zoning lot in a commercial or
industrial lighting zone is permitted to be lighted between one-half hour
before sunset and 10:00 p.m. (CST) or one hour after the close of business
based on normal hours of operation of the business, whichever is later.
Thereafter, for safety and security purposes, security lighting is permissible
at a total light output not greater than 25% of the total light output from all
outdoor lighting located on the zoning lot during permitted outdoor lighting
hours. During security lighting hours, no luminaire may exceed its light output
exhibited during permitted outdoor lighting hours.
         (b)   Property used for governmental and public purposes. Any zoning
lot in any zoning district used for governmental or public purposes, except for
street lighting, shall comply with the permitted hours and security lighting
limitations for commercial lighting zones. In addition, outdoor lighting of the
playing field of an organized sporting event on public property that is in
progress at the close of permitted outdoor lighting hours shall be allowed to
remain illuminated until 30 minutes after the conclusion of the event but no
later than 11:00 p.m. (CST) No outdoor lighting of the playing field for any
sport or recreational purpose shall be initiated after 9:00 p.m. (CST).
   (D)   Luminaire standards.
      (1)   Full-cutoff requirement.
         (a)   Commercial and industrial lighting zones. Except for uplighting
applications permitted within this chapter, any luminaire used for outdoor
lighting in a commercial or industrial lighting zone shall be a full-cutoff
luminaire and shall be installed in the proper orientation to achieve full-
cutoff performance with respect to a horizontal plane.
         (b)   Street lighting. Any luminaire used for street lighting shall be
a full-cutoff 100 watt high pressure sodium (HPS) luminaire and shall be
installed in the proper orientation to achieve full-cutoff performance with
respect to a horizontal plane at intersections only. The luminaire, as well as
any poles, brackets, supports, and mounting hardware shall comply with current
town standards set forth in the Town Design Standard Manual.
      (2)   Installed height. The installed height of any luminaire used for
outdoor lighting on any zoning lot, except for street lighting, shall not
exceed 25 feet, including the luminaire.
   (E)   Prohibited outdoor lighting. The following outdoor lighting
applications are prohibited in all zoning districts:
      (1)   The use of a laser light source;
      (2)   The use of flickering, flashing, blinking, scrolling, or rotating
lights and any illumination that changes intensity;
      (3)   The use of upward directed lighting, except as otherwise permitted
herein;
      (4)   Architectural lighting of any portion of a building or structure
with a polished or glass exterior surface that uses uplighting;
      (5)   The use of searchlights;
      (6)   The use of neon light to accent buildings or architectural
features;
      (7)   The use of mercury vapor light source except for existing light
sources used in open space zoning districts; and
      (8)   Any luminaire creating glare that is deemed by the town to create a
hazard or nuisance.
   (F)   Exempt outdoor lighting. The following outdoor lighting applications
are exempt from all requirements of this chapter:
      (1)   Underwater lighting used for illumination of swimming pools and
fountains;
      (2)   Lighting required by county, state, or federal law;
      (3)   Temporary lighting used for holiday decorations;
      (4)   Decorative yard lighting characterized like a flame source;
      (5)   Portable lighting temporarily used for maintenance or repair that
is not deemed by the town or state to create a hazard or nuisance;
      (6)   Emergency lighting used by police, firefighting, emergency
management, or medical personnel at their discretion as long as the emergency
exists;
      (7)   Lighting approved by the town for temporary events such as
carnivals, circuses, festivals, picnics, fairs, civic events, and exhibitions;
and
      (8)   Temporary lighting required for road construction or other public
improvements.
   (G)   Procedural requirements.
      (1)   Plan submission. For subdivision and land-development applications
where outdoor lighting is required or proposed, lighting plans shall be
submitted to the Plan Commission for review and approval at a public meeting
and shall include:
         (a)   A site plan complete with all structures, parking spaces,
building entrances, traffic areas (both vehicular and pedestrian), vegetation
that might interfere with lighting, and all adjacent uses. The site plan shall
show, by location, and identify each existing and proposed luminaire and shall
specify its installed height, pole foundation details, and mounting methods;
         (b)   Iso-footcandle plots for individual lighting installations, or
10' x 10' illuminance-grid plots for multi-fixture lighting installations,
which demonstrate compliance with all applicable requirements as set forth in
this chapter. The plots shall indicate the location of each existing and
proposed luminaire, the installed height of said luminaires, and the overall
light levels in foot candles on the entire zoning lot and at the property
lines;
         (c)   A summary table identifying the maximum and minimum light levels
for all parking areas, entryways, signs, and walkways; and
         (d)   A description of each luminaire identified in the site plan
including the manufacturer, model number, a photograph or catalog cut,
photometric data verifying any compliance requirements specified within this
chapter, light output in initial lumens, shielding or glare reductions devices,
lamp type, and on/off control devices.
      (2)   Post - approval alterations. Post-approval alterations to lighting
plans or intended substitutions for approved lighting equipment shall be
submitted to the Plan Commission for review with all plan submission
requirements set forth within this chapter, prior to installation. Any Plan
Commission approval under this section shall be by a "waiver" as provided in
division (H).
      (3)   Right of inspection. The town shall have the right to conduct a
post-installation inspection to verify compliance with the requirements of this
chapter and, if appropriate, to require remedial action at the expense of the
applicant and/or owner for non-conformance with the approved plan.
   (H)   Waivers.
      (1)   Application. Request for a waiver from the requirements of this
chapter may be initiated by written application to the Plan Commission under
the same rules and filing deadlines as a request for a variance, with the
request specifically denoting what provisions of this chapter relief is being
sought.
      (2)   Application review and approval. The application for waiver will be
considered and approved by the Plan Commission upon the payment of the waiver
from subdivision design standards fee set forth under Town Code § 150.26. The
Plan Commission may grant waivers of the requirements of this chapter in cases
where the standards set forth under Town Code § 155.132 pertaining to waivers
from the subdivision control standards are met. The Plan Commission may impose
conditions, including request for written commitments when approving a waiver
request.
   (I)   Enforcement. Winfield Town Inspectors and such persons who are duly
appointment as Code Enforcement Officials are hereby authorized to inspect
luminaires and lighting installations in the zoning districts subject to this
chapter to determine compliance with the applicable provisions and, if
necessary, to issue notices of violation to the owner, operator or other person
(s) or entity responsible for maintenance of the luminaire or lighting
installation, if the luminaire or lighting installation fails to comply with
the provision of this chapter.
   (J)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   ARCHITECTURAL LIGHTING. Outdoor lighting directed at buildings, facades,
structures, monuments, and other architectural features.
   COMMERCIAL LIGHTING ZONE. Any zoning lot in any zoning district that does
not have as its primary use a single-family residential dwelling, a two-family
residential dwelling, land used for agriculture, or land used for industrial
purposes.
   CST. Central Standard Time, including the local change in time for daylight
savings time.
   FOOTCANDLE. A unit of measurement of luminous flux.
   FULL-CUTOFF. Light distribution from a luminaire (excluding not more than
0.5% incidental uplight from poles, mounting brackets, and other supporting
structures), as determined by photometric test and certified by the
manufacturer, such that no light is emitted at or above an angle of 90° above
nadir in any direction and the luminous flux emitted in the band between 80°
and 90° above nadir in all directions is no more than 10% of the total luminous
flux for the luminaire.
   GLARE. A visual disturbance produced by a distinct light source within the
visual field that is sufficiently brighter than the level to which the eyes are
adapted.
   HID LIGHTING. A high-intensity discharge family of lighting that includes
high-pressure sodium, fluorescent, mercury vapor, and metal halide type bulbs.
   ILLUMINANCE. The amount of luminous flux falling onto a unit of surface
area, correlating to the perception of brightness by the human eye. Illuminance
is typically measured in lumens per square foot (footcandles) or lumens per
square meter (lux).
   INDUSTRIAL LIGHTING ZONE. A lighting area on any zoning lot in an Industrial
zoning district that is used typically relating to, concerning or arising from
the manufacturing, assembling, fabrication, finishing, packaging, or processing
of goods.
   INSTALLED HEIGHT. The height above grade of the lowest point on an installed
luminaire.
   INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign illuminated by a light source internal
to the sign enclosure which is not directly visible externally, including neon-
light signs.
   LAMP. The source of light being emitted from a luminaire, such as a bulb.
   LANDSCAPE LIGHTING. Outdoor lighting directed at trees, shrubs, plants,
flower beds, fountains, gardens, and other natural or landscaped features.
   LIGHT. Electromagnetic radiation within a range of wavelengths sufficient
for visual perception by the normal unaided human eye.
   LIGHT LEVEL. The illuminance as measured in accordance with the practices
contained in the Illumination Engineering Society of North America Lighting
Handbook, Eight Edition.
   LIGHT OUTPUT. The initial lumen rating declared by the manufacturer, which
consists of the lumen rating of a lamp at the end of 100 hours of operation.
   LIGHTING INSTALLATION. An arrangement of one or more luminaires including
any mounting hardware, brackets, and supporting structures.
   LUMEN. A unit of measure of luminous flux. "Lumens" denotes initial lumens
for HID lighting applications.
   LUMINAIRE. An individual lighting assembly including the lamp and any
housings, reflectors, globes, lenses, shields or other components designed to
block or distribute light, but does not include internally illuminated signs.
   LUMINANCE. A measure of the brightness of a surface which is emitting light.
The unit of measurement most commonly used is candelas per square meter, often
referred to as nits in the USA (1 nit = 1 cd/m2). The nocturnal appearance and
environmental effect of objects such as internally lit signs may be analyzed
both by total light output (lumens) and by their surface brightness (nits).
   LUMINOUS FLUX. The power emitted from a source of electromagnetic radiation,
such as a light bulb, in the form of visible light. Luminous flux is measured
in lumens (or lux) and is typically specified by the manufacturer for a given
lamp or luminaire. Typical luminous flux values for incandescent bulbs are
100W: 1550 lumens, 75W: 1080 lumens, 60W: 780 lumens, and 40W: 450 lumens.
   MOTION-ACTIVATED SENSOR. A sensor which causes a luminaire to become
illuminated automatically upon the presence of motion or infrared radiation or
a combination thereof within its field of view.
   NADIR. The direction pointing directly downward from the light source of the
luminaire that originates from a horizontal plane at the lowest point on the
luminaire.
   NEON LIGHT. Brightly colored light generated by using electric current to
excite a gas or gas mixture (including neon, argon, helium, and other gases)
typically contained in a tube which can be bent into various forms or use as
decoration or signs. Fluorescent tubes are not considered a neon light.
   NIT(s). A unit of measure of luminance.
   ORGANIZED SPORTING EVENT. A prearranged sports or recreational event
involving at least one group or team with a published roster and schedule.
   OUTDOOR DISPLAY LOT. An outdoor area whose primary function is the sale of
displayed merchandise, often requiring accurate color perception by customers.
   OUTDOOR LIGHTING. Light generated from an indoor or outdoor source that
provides illumination to a surface, building, sign, structure, device, or other
outdoor feature which is visible to an observer located outdoors. Outdoor
lighting does not include the light source inside an internally illuminated
sign.
   PLAYING FIELD. An open outdoor field or court used for playing sports such
as baseball, soccer, football, tennis, skate park, volleyball, and basketball.
   PUBLIC PARKING AREAS. A drivable surface intended for use by the general
public for parking motorized vehicles.
   RESIDENTIAL LIGHTING ZONE. Any zoning lot in a residential or agricultural
zoning district that has as its primary use a single-family residential
dwelling or a two-family residential dwelling.
   SEARCHLIGHT. A lighting installation designed to project a high-intensity
beam of approximately parallel rays of light that is typically used to sweep
the sky for promotional purposes.
   SHIELDING. A luminaire which uses shielding, lenses, or other means to
provide distinct directional focused beam of emitted light.
   STREET LIGHTING. One or more luminaires or light installations designed to
illuminate a public roadway or intersection.
   UPLIGHTING. Lighting applications which direct light above a horizontal
plane.
(Ord. 219, passed 7-23-2013; Am. Ord. 219-A, passed 3-25-2014; Am. Ord. 350,
passed 4-25-2023)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 156.055 MINIMUM OFF-STREET PARKING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The minimum required off-street parking facilities as set forth in
this chapter shall be determined in accordance with the schedule of parking
facilities in Appendix C of this chapter.
   (B)   In no case, except for residential uses, shall there be permitted less
than five parking spaces in addition to parking required for employees.
(Ord. 23, § 2.40.10, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.056 CALCULATION OF REQUIRED PARKING SPACES.
   When units or measurements determining the number of required parking spaces
result in the requirement of a fractional space, any fraction up to and
including one-half shall be disregarded, and fractions over one-half shall
require one parking space.
(Ord. 23, § 2.40.20, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.057 LOCATION OF PARKING.
   (A)   Non-residential. Off-street parking for other than residential use
shall be either on the same lot or within 300 feet of the building it is
intended to serve, measured without crossing any major thoroughfare, from the
nearest point of the building to the nearest point of the off-street parking
facilities.
   (B)   Exception for church uses. Parking spaces already provided to meet
off-street parking requirements for non-residential uses and establishments
located within 500 feet of a church as measured along public right-of-way
lines, that are not normally used between the hours of 6:00 a.m. Sunday through
6:00 p.m. Sunday, and that are made available for other parking, may be used to
meet not more than 50% of the off-street parking requirements of a church.
There shall be a written agreement between all parties concerned where this
arrangement can be made.
(Ord. 23, § 2.40.30, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.058 EXPANSION OF NONCONFORMING USE.
   Whenever a nonconforming use requiring off-street parking is expanded,
additional parking space for the expansion shall be provided in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 2.40.40, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.059 COLLECTIVE USE OF PARKING FACILITIES.
   Nothing in this division shall be construed to prevent collective provision
of off-street parking facilities for two or more buildings or uses, provided
that collectively these facilities shall not be less than the sum of the
requirements for the various individual uses computed separately.
(Ord. 23, § 2.40.50, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.060 PARKING FACILITIES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PARKING FACILITY. A group of parking spaces or an open area not including
any part of a street or alley, designed or used for the temporary parking of
motor vehicles.
   (B)   All parking facilities for manufacturing, commercial, business, public
and private employee parking, offices, and places of assembly, and all interior
drives for commercial developments, must be paved. In addition, all parking
facilities must also conform to all the following requirements:
      (1)   They shall be striped so as to show each parking space;
      (2)   They shall meet all of the parking space requirements in § 156.055
and Appendix C of this chapter;
      (3)   They shall be constructed to allow proper drainage;
      (4)   They shall be designed so as to prevent vehicles from having to
back into public streets; and
      (5)   No point of ingress or egress shall be allowed closer than 25 feet
to any right-of-way line of any intersection street or alley.
   (C)   All parking facilities are encouraged to be located in the rear and
side yards for all uses of property. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear
requests for variations from this subchapter’s requirements only if parking
areas are located in the rear or side lots; front lot parking shall have no
flexibility.
   (D)   Unless otherwise specified herein, all parking facilities, including
approach aprons, entrances, exits, and loading spaces, shall be improved with
six inches of compacted No. 53 stone and two inches of HAC or equivalent dust
free, durable, and cohesive surface as approved by the Building Administrator.
(Ord. 23, § 2.40.60, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.061 PARKING FACILITY DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   For MF residential and all non-residential uses, the provisions of this
section shall apply as minimums.
   (A)   Each off-street parking space required by this subchapter shall
consist of a rectangular area not less than ten feet wide and 20 feet long,
except a parallel parking space (0 degrees) shall be no less than ten feet wide
and 22 feet long.
   (B)   Each required off-street parking space shall open directly on an
unobstructed aisle, the width of which is determined by the angle between the
centerline of the parking space and the centerline of the aisle, as described
in the table below.
 
Parking Angle   One-Way Aisle Width Two-Way Aisle Width
0 - 45 degrees  12 ft.              22 ft.
46 - 60 degrees 17 ft.              22 ft.
61 - 75 degrees 18 ft.              22 ft.
76 - 90 degrees 22 ft.              26 ft.
 
   (C)   Driveway width shall be a minimum of 24 feet for commercial and multi-
family housing.
   (D)   Lighting facilities provided for off-street parking areas shall be so
arranged as to reflect the light away from the adjacent properties and public
thoroughfares.
   (E)   All parking spaces prescribed under this section shall have a minimum
vertical clearance of not less than ten feet.
   (F)   Accessible parking standards.
      (1)   Parking spaces reserved for the disabled shall conform to design
standards in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
      (2)   The number of parking spaces reserved for the disabled shall comply
with the minimums established in the table below.
Total Number of Parking Spaces in Parking Minimum Number of Accessible Parking
Facility (Lot or Garage)                  Spaces Required
Total Number of Parking Spaces in Parking Minimum Number of Accessible Parking
Facility (Lot or Garage)                  Spaces Required
1 - 25                                    1
26-50                                     2
51-75                                     3
76 -100                                   4
101 -150                                  5
151-200                                   6
201 - 300                                 7
301-400                                   8
401-500                                   9
501 -1000                                 2% of total
1001 and over                             20, plus 1 for each 100, or fraction
                                          thereof, over 1000
 
      (3)   One of every six accessible parking spaces, or fraction thereof,
must be van-accessible.
      (4)   Where a parking facility serves multiple buildings or accessible
entrances, accessible parking spaces shall be dispersed to enable people to
park near as many accessible entrances as possible.
      (5)   Where separate parking facilities serve the same building or
entrance, accessible spaces may be grouped together, as long as the number of
spaces provided is determined according to each of the separate parking
facilities.
      (6)   Certain types of medical facilities need more accessible parking.
         (a)   Hospital outpatient facilities need 10% of patient/visitor
spaces to be accessible.
         (b)   Rehabilitation facilities that specialize in treating mobility
related conditions, and outpatient physical therapy families need 20% of
patient/visitor spaces to be accessible.
      (7)   Exceptions. Parking facilities that are used exclusively for buses,
trucks, delivery vehicles, law enforcement vehicles, and vehicular impound are
not required to include accessible spaces, but if such lots are accessed by the
public (e.g. impounded vehicle retrieval), then an accessible passenger loading
zone must be provided.
      (8)   Dimensions and design (all dimensions are minimums).
         (a)   Accessible parking spaces are eight feet wide; van-accessible
spaces are eleven feet wide. Access aisles for either type of space are five
feet wide. These adjacent aisles, which can be shared between two spaces,
provide room for individuals to deploy vehicle-mounted wheelchair lifts and/or
unload and use mobility devices such as wheelchairs, walkers, etc. An alternate
design allows a van-accessible space to be eight feet wide if the adjacent
access aisle is also eight feet wide.
         (b)   Access aisles must be marked (e.g., painted with hatch marks) to
discourage parking in them.
         (c)   The surface of accessible spaces and access aisles must be
smooth, stable, and virtually level in all directions to ensure safe use for
people with disabilities, including those who must load, unload, and use
wheeled mobility devices.
      (9)   Signs.
         (a)   Accessible parking spaces must be identified by signs that
include the international symbol of accessibility. Signs are van-accessible
spaces must include the additional phrase “van-accessible.”
         (b)   Signs must be mounted so that the lower edge of the sign is at
least five feet above the ground.
(Ord. 23, § 2.40.70, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 282, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 156.062 RESIDENTIAL PARKING; DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   For any one-, two-, and three-family dwellings (plus any authorized home
occupation therein), regardless of district, the provisions of this section
shall apply as minimum requirements.
   (A)   The parking spaces required by this section shall be located on the
premises, but shall not be located in a required front yard. However, parking
in addition to the required spaces is not permitted in a required front yard,
except in driveways and turnarounds.
   (B)   The maximum width of a driveway at the road cut, curb, and/or
municipal sidewalk is to be no wider than 24 feet.
   (C)   The parking spaces and associated driveway required for residential
uses with zoning classifications of R-l, R-2, R-3, R-4, PDR, and PDM, and other
residential uses with driveway lengths less than 50 feet, measured from the
street, for front load garages, and driveway lengths less than 75 feet,
measured from the street, for side load garages shall be improved with a
minimum of six inches of compacted No. 53 stone and a minimum of four inches of
high-performance, air-entrained concrete, sealed, with stress joints at
appropriate intervals.
   (D)   The parking spaces and associated driveway required for residential
uses in AG zoning districts and residential districts with driveway lengths
greater than 50 feet, measured from the street, for front load garages, and 75
feet, measured from the street, for side load garages, as an alternative to
(C), may be improved with a minimum of six inches of compacted No. 53 stone and
five inches of asphalt. However, should the length of the driveway in this
situation be over 200 feet, a stone driveway is allowed, provided that the
street frontage is not improved with municipal sidewalk.
   (E)   Exceptions for brick or concrete paver driveways shall be granted. See
standard detail for same.
(Ord. 23, § 2.40.120, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 281, passed 3-13-2018)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.063 OFF-STREET LOADING; REQUIRED FACILITIES.
   (A)   Loading facilities required.  
      (1)   For any building or premises used for commercial or manufacturing
purposes, off-street indoor or outdoor space for loading and/or unloading of
goods and materials shall be provided on the premises in accordance with
division (B) of this section.
      (2)   No berth for vehicles over two tons capacity shall be closer than
50 feet to any property in a residential district unless enclosed by building
walls or a uniformly painted solid fence or wall or any combination thereof at
a height of six feet and approved by the Building Administrator. No permitted
or required berth shall be located within 50 feet of the nearest intersection
of any two streets. No off-street loading berth shall be located in a required
front yard, or side yard adjoining a street.
   (B)   Off-street loading schedule.
      (1)   For every building, structure, or part thereof, hereafter erected,
established, or enlarged and occupied for manufacturing, storage, warehouse,
goods display, department store, wholesale store, market, hotel, mortuary,
laundry, dry cleaning, institutional use, or other uses involving the receipt
or distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise, there shall be provided
and maintained adequate space for standing, loading, and unloading in order to
avoid undue interference with public use of the street or alley.
      (2)   The space, unless otherwise adequately provided for, shall include
a loading space for every 20,000 square feet or fraction thereof in excess of
3,000 square feet of floor area used for the aforementioned purposes, or for
every 20,000 square feet or fraction thereof in excess of 3,000 square feet of
land used for the aforementioned purposes. These requirements may, upon appeal,
be increased, modified, or waived by the Board where the conditions or
circumstances justify that action.
(Ord. 23, §§ 2.40.80 and 2.40.90, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.064 OFF-STREET LOADING SPACES; MINIMUM SIZE.
   Unless otherwise specified, a required off-street loading space shall be at
least 12 feet in width by at least 50 feet in length, exclusive of aisle and
maneuvering space, and enclosed loading spaces shall have a vertical clearance
of at least 14 feet.
(Ord. 23, § 2.40.100, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.065 OFF-STREET LOADING; SURFACING.
   Unless otherwise specified herein, all areas for off-street loading berths
shall be improved with a minimum of six inches of compacted No. 53 stone and
two inches of HAC or equivalent dust free, durable, and cohesive surface as
approved by the Building Administrator.
(Ord. 23, § 2.40.110, passed 3-19-1997)
SIGN REGULATIONS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.075 PURPOSE.
   (A)   (1)   It is the intent of these provisions to establish a
comprehensive system for the regulation of all signs within the town.
      (2)   It is the purpose of these regulations to enhance the aesthetic
nature of the town by eliminating visual clutter, while permitting effective
communication by owners and occupants of property. In so doing, it is
anticipated that these regulations will contribute to the economic stability of
the town and its overall attractiveness to residents, visitors, and businesses.
   (B)   Specifically, the purposes of these regulations are to:
      (1)   Protect the general public health, safety and welfare of the town;
      (2)   Reduce possible traffic and safety hazards through reduced sign
clutter, and elimination of unauthorized signs in the public right-of-way;
      (3)   Maximize public convenience through appropriate identification and
directional signs;
      (4)   Minimize the visual and lighting impacts of business signs to
adjacent residential neighborhoods;
      (5)   Encourage signs and graphics which are well designed, aesthetically
pleasing and appropriate to their intended context;
      (6)   Ensure that permitted signs contribute to a high quality visual
environment constituent with town community values;
      (7)   Protect and enhance the visual quality of designated scenic
highways and other areas located within the scenic area overlay zone; and
      (8)   Enhance the economic value of the town.
   (C)   These sign regulations are adopted in the furtherance of the more
general purposes set forth in §
156.002 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 2.50.10, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 2003-109A, passed 10-8-2004;
Am. Ord. 210-A, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 156.076 APPLICATION.
   Hereafter, all construction, relocation, enlargement, or alteration of signs
within the town shall conform to the requirements of this chapter, all state
and federal regulations concerning signs and advertising, the Uniform Building
Code, and the National Electrical Code.
(Ord. 23, § 2.50.20, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 2003-109A, passed 10-8-2004)
§ 156.077 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The Building Administrator shall have the power to administer and enforce
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 2.50.30, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 2003-109A, passed 10-8-2004)
§ 156.078 DEFINITIONS; USAGE.
   (A)   Principles for computing sign area and sign height are contained in §
156.079.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words and
phrases not defined in this section but defined elsewhere in this chapter shall
be given the meanings set forth in that section. All other words and phrases
shall be given their common, ordinary meaning, unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign which includes action, motion, the optical
illusion of action or motion or color changes of all or any part of the sign
facing, requiring electrical energy or set in motion by movement of the
atmosphere or a sign made up of a series of sections that turn and stop to show
two or more pictures or messages in the copy area, except time and temperature
signs. ANIMATED SIGNS shall include electronic reader boards and any sign that
uses movement or change of lighting to depict action or create a special effect
or scene.
      AWNING. A roof-like protective cover constructed of metal, wood, or other
rigid material extending from all or a portion of a building such as a door,
entrance, window or outdoor service area. For the purposes of this chapter, a
sign on an awning shall be considered to be a wall sign.
      BANNER. Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material that is
permanently mounted to a pole or a building by a permanent frame at one or more
edges. National flags, state or municipal flags, or the official flag of any
institution or business shall not be considered BANNERS.
      BEACON. Any light with one or more beams of illumination directed into
the atmosphere or directed at one or more points not on the same zone lot as
the light source; also, any light with one or more beams that rotate or move.
      BENCH SIGN. Any sign attached to or painted upon a bench or seat which is
located outside a building or structure.
      BUILDING MARKER. Any sign indicating the name of a building and date and
incidental information about its construction, which sign is cut into a masonry
surface or applied to the building facade. Marker construction, not original to
the building, to be made of bronze or other acceptable material.
      BUILDING SIGN. Any sign attached to any part of a building, as contrasted
to a FREESTANDING SIGN.
      CANOPY SIGN. Any sign that is a part of or attached to an awning, canopy,
or other fabric, or structural protective cover over a door, entrance, window,
or outdoor service area. A marquee is not a canopy.
      CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters,
or illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the face or
the surface of the sign. A sign on which the message changes more than six
times per day shall be considered an ANIMATED SIGN and not a CHANGEABLE COPY
SIGN for the purposes of this chapter. A sign on which the only copy that
changes is an electronic or mechanical indication of time and/or temperature
shall be considered a time and temperature portion of a sign and not a
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN for purposes of this chapter.
      COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Any sign wording, logo, or other representation that
directly or indirectly names, advertises, or calls attention to a business,
product, service, or other commercial activity.
      FLAG. Any fabric, banner, or bunting containing distinctive colors,
patterns, or symbols, used as a symbol of a government, political subdivision,
business or other entity.
      FREESTANDING SIGN. Any sign supported by structures or supports that are
placed on, or anchored in, the ground and that are independent from any
building or other structure.
      HEIGHT OF SIGN. The greatest vertical distance measured from the finished
grade to the top of the sign, including any accompanying architectural features
of the sign.
      ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign designed to give forth artificial light or
reflect the light from an artificial light source.
      INCIDENTAL SIGN. A sign, generally informational, that has a purpose
secondary to the use of the zone lot on which it is located, such as "No
Parking", "Entrance", "Visitor Entry", "No Smoking", "Loading Area" and other
similar directives, including text and symbol depictions. No sign with a
commercial message legible from a position off the zone lot on which the sign
is located shall be considered INCIDENTAL.
      LOT. Any piece or parcel of land or a portion of a subdivision, the
boundaries of which have been established by some legal instrument of record,
that is recognized and intended as a unit for the purpose of transfer of
ownership and publicly recorded.
      MARQUEE. Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building
or extending along and projecting beyond the wall of the building, generally
designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
      MARQUEE SIGN. Any sign attached to, in any manner, or made a part of a
marquee.
      MONUMENT SIGN. A type of freestanding sign which has a low profile with a
continuous base resting on the ground and incorporating the design and building
materials complementary to the architectural theme of the building on the same
property.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/6945685234c4ef21a9dbff87ed220cd7f7449e33/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2059.jpg]
 
      NAMEPLATE. Any sign which displays only the name and address of the
occupant.
      NONCONFORMING SIGN. Any sign that does not conform to the requirements of
this chapter.
      NON-ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign which is not designed to give forth
artificial light or reflect the light from an artificial light source.
      OFF-PREMISE SIGN: BILLBOARD, POSTERBOARD, PANEL. Any single or double
faced structure permanently affixed to the surface of the land or to any
building, tower, or other structure, designed, arranged, used, or intended to
be used for outdoor advertising, or where display space is purchased or
rendered for general advertising purposes, and not associated with the
establishment located on the same zone lot as the sign. For the purposes of
this chapter, a political sign shall not be considered as an OFF-PREMISE SIGN,
and the location of political signs is regulated by § 156.099 of this code.
      PENNANT. Any lightweight, fabric, or other material, whether or not
containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire, or string,
usually in series, designed to move in the wind. A PENNANT sign is a temporary
sign.
      PERMANENT SIGN. Any sign not intended for temporary display.
      PERSON. Any association, company, corporation, entity, firm,
organization, or partnership,  singular or plural, of any kind.
      POLE SIGN. A type of freestanding sign which is permanently supported by
one or more poles or uprights.
      PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported, including but not
limited to signs designed to be transported by means of wheels, signs converted
to A or T frames, menu and sandwich board signs, balloons used as signs,
umbrellas used for advertising, and signs attached to or painted on vehicles
parked and visible from the public right-of-way, unless that vehicle is used in
the normal day to day operations of the business.
      PRINCIPAL BUILDING. The building in which is conducted the principal use
of the zone lot in which it is located. Zone lots with multiple principal uses
may have multiple PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS, but storage buildings, garages, and
other clearly accessory uses shall not be considered PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS.
      PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign affixed to a building or wall in a manner so
that its leading edge extends more than 12 inches beyond the surface of that
building or wall.
      PUBLIC SIGN. Any sign, either permanent or temporary, which is authorized
and erected by public officials of the state, town, or township for the public
safety, health, and welfare, including traffic signs, other municipal signs,
railroad crossing signs, and danger and other non-advertising signs.
      RESIDENTIAL SIGN. Any sign located in a district zoned for residential
use that contains no commercial message except advertising for goods or
services legally offered on the premises where the sign is located, if offering
that service at that location conforms with all requirements of this zoning
chapter.
      ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and above the roof
of a building, supported by the roof structure, and extending vertically above
the roof plane.
      ROOF SIGN, INTEGRAL. Any sign erected or constructed as an integral or
essentially integral part of a normal roof structure of any design, so that no
part of the sign extends vertically above the highest portion of the roof and
so that no part of the sign is separated from the rest of the roof by a space
of more than six inches.
      SETBACK. The distance from the property line to the nearest part of the
applicable building, structure, or sign, measured perpendicularly to the
property line.
      SIGN. Any device, fixture, placard, or structure that uses any color,
form, graphic, illumination, symbol, or writing to advertise, announce the
purpose of, or identify the purpose of a person or entity, or to communicate
information of any kind to the public.
      STREET. A strip of land or right-of-way subject to vehicular traffic (as
well as pedestrian traffic) that provides direct or indirect access to
property, including but not limited to alleys, avenues, boulevards, courts,
drives, highways, lanes, places, roads, terraces, trails, or other
thoroughfares.
      STREET FRONTAGE. The distance for which a lot line of a zone lot adjoins
a public street, from one lot line intersecting the street to the furthest
distant lot line intersecting the same street.
      SUSPENDED SIGN. A sign that is suspended from the underside of a
horizontal plane surface and is supported by that surface.
      TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign that is used only temporarily and is not
permanently mounted.
      WALL SIGN. Any sign attached parallel to, but projecting not more than
four inches from a wall, painted on the wall surface of, or erected and
confined within the limits of, an outside wall of any building or structure,
which is supported by that wall or building, and which displays only one sign
surface.
      WINDOW SIGN. Any sign, pictures, symbols, or combination thereof,
designed to communicate information about an activity, business, commodity,
event, sale, or service, that is placed inside a window or upon the window
panes or glass and is visible from the exterior of the window.
      ZONING LOT. A parcel of land in single ownership that is of sufficient
size to meet minimum zoning requirements for area, coverage, and use, and that
can provide yards and other open spaces as required by the zoning regulations.
(Ord. 23, § 2.50.40, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 45, passed 4-15-1998; Am. Ord.
2003-109A, passed 10-8-2004; Am. Ord. 210-A, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 156.079 COMPUTATIONS.
   The following principles shall control the computation of sign area and sign
height:
   (A)   Computation of area of individual signs. The area of a sign face
(which is also the sign area of a wall sign or other sign with only one face)
shall be computed by means of the smallest square, circle, rectangle, triangle,
or combination thereof that will encompass the extreme limits of the writing,
representation, emblem, or other display, together with any material or color
forming an integral part of the background of the display or used to
differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is
placed, but not including any supporting framework, bracing, or decorative
fence or wall when the fence or wall otherwise meets zoning regulations and is
clearly incidental to the display itself.
   (B)   Computation of area of multi-faced signs. The sign area for a sign
with more than one face shall be computed by adding together the area of all
sign faces visible from any one point. When two identical sign faces are placed
back to back, so that both faces cannot be viewed from any one point at the
same time, and when those sign faces are part of the same sign structure and
are not more than 42 inches apart, the sign area shall be computed by the
measurement of one of the faces.
   (C)   Computation of height. The height of a sign shall be computed as the
distance from the base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the highest
attached component of the sign. Normal grade shall be construed to be the lower
of: the existing grade prior to construction; or the newly established grade
after construction, exclusive of any filling, berming, mounding, or excavating
solely for the purpose of locating the sign. In cases in which the normal grade
cannot reasonably be determined, sign height shall be computed on the
assumption that the elevation of the normal grade at the base of the sign is
equal to the elevation of the nearest point of the crown of a public street or
the grade of the land at the principal entrance to the principal structure on
the zone lot, whichever is greater.
   (D)   Computation of maximum total permitted sign area for a zone lot. The
permitted sum of the area of all individual signs on a zone lot shall be as
indicated in Appendix E of this chapter to the lot frontage, building frontage,
or wall area, as appropriate, for the zoning district in which the lot is
located. Lots fronting on two or more streets are allowed the permitted sign
area for each street frontage. However, the total sign area that is oriented
toward a particular street may not exceed the portion of the lot’s total sign
area allocation that is derived from the lot, building, or wall area frontage
on that street.
(Ord. 23, § 2.50.90, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 2003-109A, passed 10-8-2004)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.080 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, alter, construct, or relocate
any sign or structure subject to the terms of this chapter without first
obtaining a sign erection permit from the Building Administrator and making
payment of the appropriate fee as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 2.50.50, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 2003-109A, passed 10-8-2004)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.081 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No permit shall be required for signs or displays covered by this
section. These exceptions, however, shall not be construed to relieve the owner
of the sign from responsibility for its erection and maintenance in a safe
manner, or from other provisions of this chapter relating to size, lighting, or
location.
   (B)   Exceptions are as follows:
      (1)   Building markers provided they are not larger than six square feet
for each display surface;
      (2)   Necessary traffic and/or directional signs erected by a
governmental unit;
      (3)   Flags of governmental units, accredited schools, and churches. The
height of flag poles shall not exceed 40 feet. Flags shall be in proper
proportion to the pole so as to ensure the safe display of the flag;
      (4)   Private informational signs necessary to inform the public, such as
“no trespassing,” “no dumping,” “beware of dog,” “buried cable,” and the like.
These signs shall be exempt so long as they do not exceed two square feet in
gross area each;
      (5)   Construction signs, when authorized by the Building Administrator
in connection with construction operating for a specific project; these signs
shall not exceed 36 square feet in area, and shall be removed within 15 days
after completion of construction operations;
      (6)   Signs advertising private garage sales, as discussed in §
156.158 of this code;
      (7)   Posters advertising special programs or events;
      (8)   Political campaign signs, as discussed in §
156.099;
      (9)   Window signs, except a sign which is permanently affixed to the
interior or exterior of a window or is within three feet of the interior of the
window and exceeds 25% of the window area. The sign shall then meet the
requirements of §
156.080 regarding permits, and all other requirements of this chapter; and
      (10)   Newspaper dispensing machines shall be permitted in any commercial
district, provided that there shall be no advertising posted other than the
name of the newspaper and the price.
(Ord. 23, § 2.50.60, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 2003-109A, passed 10-8-2004)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.082 DESIGN RESTRICTIONS.
   In addition to all other provisions and restrictions of this section and
chapter, the signs shall conform as follows:
   (A)   All freestanding identification signs, general business signs and
multipurpose signs shall be monument signs. This division refers to
freestanding monument signs in AG, AG-B, C-1, C-2, C-3, MF, PDC, PDM and
industrial/manufacturing districts. The maximum height of a single occupant
business monument sign shall be five feet, maximum length shall be eight feet
and display area, not including architectural details, shall not exceed 24
square feet. The entire sign must be located a minimum of ten feet behind a
right-of-way line, property line or easement line.
      (1)   All monument signs shall provide the numerical designation of the
building served, with minimum three-inch text.
      (2)   Changeable copy shall not be incorporated into monument signs in
this division with the exception of gasoline service stations.
   (B)   A freestanding monument sign shall be securely built and constructed
to comply with §
156.076.
   (C)   All signs and other advertising devices shall be designed and
constructed to withstand a wind pressure of not less than 20 pounds per square
foot of surface area.
   (D)   The owner of any sign as defined and regulated by this chapter shall
properly maintain all parts and supports of that sign.
   (E)   For internally illuminated signs:
      (1)   In no case shall the medium of illumination be visible; and
      (2)   In no case shall the lighting intensity exceed the limit of 70 foot
candles measured with a standard light meter perpendicular to the face of the
sign at a distance equal to the narrower dimension of the sign, whether it be
the height or the width.
   (F)   For externally illuminated signs:
      (1)   Lighting shall be uniformly distributed over the area of the sign;
      (2)   The lighting shall not reflect or be directed toward dwellings,
toward roadways, or create a hazard to traffic; and
      (3)   The light reflectance as measured with a standard light meter held
one foot perpendicular from the surface of the sign shall not exceed 50 foot
candles at its brightest area.
   (G)   A wall mounted sign shall be safely and securely attached to the
building wall by means of metal anchors, bolts, or expansion screws. In no case
shall any wall mounted sign be secured with wire, strips of wood, or nails.
   (H)   Sight triangle and distance calculations for sign placement across all
applications shall be submitted as required by the Plan Commission upon
advisory review recommendation of the Town Engineer.
(Ord. 23, § 2.50.180, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 2003-109A, passed 10-8-2004;
Am. Ord. 210-A, passed 12-10-2015) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.083 MASTER OR COMMON SIGNAGE PLAN.
   (A)   Plan required. No permit shall be issued for an individual sign
requiring a permit unless and until a Master Signage Plan or Common Signage
Plan for the zoning lot on which the sign will be erected has been submitted to
the Building Administrator and approved in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Master Signage Plan. For any zoning lot on which the owner proposes to
erect one or more signs requiring a permit, unless that zoning lot is included
in a Common Signage Plan, the owner shall submit to the Building Administrator
a Master Signage Plan containing the following:
      (1)   An accurate plot plan of the zoning lot, at a scale as the
Administrator may reasonably require;
      (2)   Location of buildings, parking lots, driveways, and landscaped
areas on the zoning lot;
      (3)   Computation of the maximum total sign area, the maximum area for
individual signs, the height of signs, and the number of freestanding monument
signs allowed on the zoning lot; and
      (4)   An accurate indication of the plot plan of the proposed location of
each present and future sign of any type, whether requiring a permit or not,
except that the incidental signs need not be shown.
   (C)   Common Signage Plan.
      (1)   A Common Signage Plan may be filed with the Planning and Zoning
Administrator in situations where owners of two or more contiguous lots, which
are not separated by a public street, seek to share a common monument sign in
lieu of installing individual single occupant business monument signs. The plan
must conform to the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   A Common Signage Plan must be filed with the Planning and Zoning
Administrator by the owner of a single lot with more than one tenant (not
including any accessory building). The sign must allow for the maximum amount
of tenants of the lot to be displayed. The plan must conform to the provisions
of this chapter.
      (3)   The Common Signage Plan shall contain all of the information
required for a Master Signage Plan and shall also specify standards for
consistency among all signs on the zone lots affected by the plan with regard
to:
         (a)   Color scheme;
         (b)   Lettering or graphic style;
         (c)   Lighting;
         (d)   Location of each sign on the buildings;
         (e)   Material; and
         (f)   Sign proportions.
      (4)   Design. All freestanding identification signs, general business
signs, and multipurpose signs which are part of a Common Signage Plan shall be
monument signs. This division refers to freestanding monument signs in an AG,
AG-B or C-3 districts, C-l, C-2, C-3, MF, PDC, PDM, and industrial/
manufacturing districts. The maximum height of a sign used in a common signage
plan shall be seven feet, maximum length shall be eight feet and display area,
not including architectural details, shall not exceed 32 square feet. The
entire sign must be located a minimum of ten feet behind a right of way line,
property line, or easement line.
         (a)   All monument signs shall provide the numerical designation of
the building served, with minimum three-inch text.
         (b)   Changeable copy shall not be incorporated into monument signs in
this section.
   (D)   Showing window signs on Common or Master Signage Plan. A Common
Signage Plan or Master Signage Plan including window signs may simply indicate
the areas of the windows to be covered by window signs and the general type of
the window signs (such as, paper affixed to window, painted, or material hung
outside window) and need not specify the exact dimensions or nature of every
window sign.
   (E)   Limit on the number of freestanding monument signs under Common
Signage Plan. The Common Signage Plan, for all zoning lots with multiple uses
or multiple users, shall limit the number of freestanding monument signs to a
total of one for each street on which the zoning lots included in the plan have
frontage and shall provide for shared or common usage of these signs.
   (F)   Consent. The Master or Common Signage Plan shall be signed by all
owners or their authorized agents in such form as the Planning and Zoning
Administrator shall require.
   (G)   Procedures. A Master or Common Signage Plan shall be included in any
development plan submitted under §§
156.250 through
156.265 of this code, regarding planned developments.
   (H)   Amendment. A Master or Common Signage Plan may be amended by filing a
new Master or Common Signage Plan that conforms with all of the procedures and
requirements of this chapter and town ordinances then in effect.
(Ord. 23, § 2.50.195, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 2003-109A, passed 10-8-2004;
Am. Ord. 210-A, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 156.084 PERMIT APPLICATION; FEES.
   (A)   Application procedures. Application for a sign permit shall be made
upon forms provided by the Building Administrator and shall contain or have
attached thereto the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   The location of the building, structure, or lot to which or upon
which the sign or other advertising structure is to be attached or erected;
      (3)   Position of the sign or advertising structure in relation to nearby
buildings or structures;
      (4)   Two blueprints or ink drawings to scale of the plans and
specifications and method of construction, attachment to the building or other
structure, or placement on the ground;
      (5)   If required by the Building Administrator, a copy of the stress
sheets and calculations showing that the structure is designed for deadload and
wind pressure in any direction and in the amount required by this chapter;
      (6)   Master or Common Signage Plan;
      (7)   Name of person erecting the sign;
      (8)   Written consent or other proof of authorization of the owner of the
building, structure, or land to which or on which the sign is to be erected;
and
      (9)   Other information as the Building Administrator shall require to
show full compliance with this chapter and any other ordinance of the town.
   (B)   Fees. Fees to be charged for permits issued for the erection,
construction, or alteration of any sign or other advertising structure shall be
determined by §
156.372 of this code.
(Ord. 23, §§ 2.50.200 and 2.50.210, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 2003-109A,
passed 10-8-2004)
§ 156.085 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person who violates or fails to comply with this subchapter, or §§
156.095 through
156.100, or any part thereof, shall be punished by fines as allowed by
applicable laws and ordinances. Every day any violation shall continue shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In the event erection of a sign is commenced prior to the issuance of
a permit, the Building Administrator shall issue a citation to the party
erecting the sign and a fine shall be assessed for commencing erection without
a permit, which fine shall be payable at the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office and
deposited in the town General Fund. Upon payment of the citation, if the party
is in compliance in all other respects of this chapter, a permit for the sign
shall be issued.
   (C)   Failure to obtain a permit within 48 hours following the issuance of a
citation shall be deemed continuous violation of this chapter, and shall be
punishable by a fine, assessed by a court of competent jurisdiction, in
addition to penalties listed in division (B).
   (D)   All other violations shall be punishable by a fine.
(Ord. 23, § 2.50.220, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 2003-109A, passed 10-8-2004)
Penalty, see § 156.999
PERMITTED AND RESTRICTED SIGNS
§ 156.095 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are hereby expressly prohibited for erection,
construction, maintenance, repair, alteration, location, or relocation within
the town, except as may otherwise be exempt in this chapter:
   (A)   Off-premise signs: billboards, posterboards, panels, except as
permitted in §
156.096(J);
   (B)   Portable signs;
   (C)   Bench signs;
   (D)   Obsolete signs which advertise a business no longer conducted or a
product no longer offered for sale on a premise where the sign is located;
however, a sign indicating a move of the business is permitted for a period of
time not exceeding 90 days from the date of discontinuance of the business at
the location;
   (E)   Exterior banners, pennants, spinners, and streamers, other than a
banner or pennant used as a permitted sign as allowed in other provisions of
this chapter;
   (F)   Any sign, sign structure, or flag which is determined by the Building
Administrator to:
      (1)   Be structurally unsafe;
      (2)   Constitute a hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate
maintenance, dilapidation, or abandonment; or
      (3)   Be capable of causing electrical shocks to persons likely to come
in contact with it.
   (G)   Any sign which obstructs the vision of drivers or obstructs or
detracts from the visibility of any traffic sign or traffic-control device on
public streets and roads by reason of the size, coloring, or illumination of
the sign;
   (H)   Any sign which obstructs free ingress to or egress from a required
door, window, fire escape, or other required exitway. Signs prohibited by the
building regulations in
Chapter 151 are also prohibited by this chapter;
   (I)   Signs which make use of a word such as stop, danger, or other similar
words, phrases, symbols, or other characters in a manner so as to imply the
need or requirement of stopping or the existence of danger;
   (J)   Any sign unlawfully installed, maintained, or erected;
   (K)   Any sign which is constructed or installed in a manner so as to
overhang a public street, easement, or road right-of-way line as established by
the official thoroughfare plan;
   (L)   Any sign which obstructs vision between a height of two and one-half
feet and ten feet, measured from the established street grades, within the
triangular area formed by intersection of any street right-of-way lines by a
straight line drawn between those right-of-way lines extended along each line
25 feet from their intersection, excluding frontage roads;
   (M)   Any sign on a motor vehicle, semi-trailer with or without a tractor,
which can be seen from the street with the primary use for the vehicle being
the advertisement of a business, product, or service of a business located on
the premises where the vehicle is parked. Trailers used for construction
purposes during the course of construction on site are exempt from this
section; and
   (N)   Any sign with moving parts or flashing lights.
   (O)   Pole signs:
   (P)   Signs that emit audible sound, odor or visible matter;
   (Q)   Inflatable signs and advertising structures;
   (R)   Signs using reflective material, except governmental signs and name
plate signs displaying the address of the occupant;
   (S)   Signs on fences, street lights, utility poles, trees, or flag poles,
included painted signs;
   (T)   Signs in the public right-of-way;
   (U)   Signs on any property without the consent of the owner;
   (V)   Animated signs, except in the case of educational institution use; and
   (W)   Roof signs.
(Ord. 23, § 2.50.80, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 2003-109A, passed 10-8-2004;
Am. Ord. 41I, passed 2-15-2010; Am. Ord. 210-A, passed 12-10-2015) Penalty, see
§
156.999
§ 156.096 PERMITTED SIGNS IN ALL DISTRICTS.
   The following types of signs shall be permitted in all zoning districts
subject to the provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Nameplate signs for residential housing units (one per housing unit)
identifying the occupancy and address of the premises, not to exceed two square
feet in surface area and six feet in height;
   (B)   Building markers;
   (C)   Permanent signs on vending machines, gas pumps, or ice containers
indicating only the contents of those devices. The sign area of each device may
not exceed six square feet each and the signs shall not be computed in the
total allowance of sign area determined in this chapter;
   (D)   Business signs not exceeding four square feet per sign face containing
information on credit cards, operating hours, or business affiliations,
excluding home occupations;
   (E)   Permanent subdivision signs having an area of not more than 50 square
feet total and not more than two in number. A permanent subdivision sign shall
have a minimum setback of 25 feet;
   (F)   Garage sale signs, as discussed in §§
156.098(B) and
156.158;
   (G)   Banner signs may be displayed for uses permitted in this chapter no
more than two times per year for a combined total display period of 30 days or
less; and
   (H)   Signs approved by the Building Administrator announcing special
programs or events, provided that an application for the sign is filed with the
Building Department prior to display of the sign. Such approved signs shall be
displayed not more than two weeks before the event and shall be removed within
two working days after the event being advertised.
(Ord. 23, § 2.50.70, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 2003-109A, passed 10-8-2004;
Am. Ord. 41I, passed 2-15-2010; Am. Ord. 210-A, passed 12-10-2015) Penalty, see
§
156.999
§ 156.097 PERMITTED SIGNS IN SPECIFIC ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Agricultural zoning district (AG) permitted signs and provisions. In
AG zoning districts only the following signs shall be permitted:
      (1)   Permanent signs.
         (a)   All signs permitted in §
156.096, except: (C) Permanent signs on vending machines, gas pumps, or ice
containers indicating only the contents of those devices. The sign area of each
device may not exceed six square feet each and the signs shall not be computed
in the total allowance of sign area determined in this chapter; and (D)
Business signs not exceeding four square feet per sign face containing
information on credit cars, operating hours, or business affiliations;
         (b)   All permanent signs permitted in §
156.082(A).
      (2)   Temporary signs. One non-illuminated temporary sign pertaining to
the lease or sale of the premises upon which it is placed and not exceeding 16
square feet in gross surface area, provided that the sign shall be removed
within seven days after the consummation of the sale or lease or the
termination of the agent's authority.
   (B)   Agricultural business zoning district (AG-B) permitted signs and
provisions. In AG-B zoning districts only the following signs shall be
permitted:
      (1)   Permanent signs.
         (a)   All signs permitted in §
156.096 except: (C) Permanent signs on vending machines, gas pumps, or ice
containers indicating only the contents of those devices. The sign area of each
device may not exceed six square feet each and the signs shall not be computed
in the total allowance of sign area determined in this chapter;
         (b)   All permanent signs permitted in §
156.082(A).
      (2)   Temporary signs. One non-illuminated temporary sign pertaining to
the lease or sale of the premises upon which it is placed and not exceeding 16
square feet in gross surface area, provided that the sign shall be removed
within seven days after the consummation of the sale or lease or the
termination of the agent's authority.
   (C)   Residential zoning districts (R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4) permitted signs and
provisions. In R-1, R-2, R-3, and R-4 zoning districts only the following signs
shall be permitted:
      (1)   Permanent signs.
         (a)   All signs permitted in §
156.096 except: (C) Permanent signs on vending machines, gas pumps, or ice
containers indicating only the contents of those devices. The sign area of each
device may not exceed six square feet each and the signs shall not be computed
in the total allowance of sign area determined in this chapter; and (D)
Business signs not exceeding four square feet per sign face containing
information on credit cards, operating hours, or business affiliations; and
         (b)   One freestanding sign per zone lot.
      (2)   Temporary signs.
         (a)   One non-illuminated temporary sign pertaining to the lease or
sale of the premises upon which it is placed and not exceeding four square feet
in gross surface area, provided that the sign shall be removed within seven
days after the consummation of the sale or lease or the termination of the
agent’s authority;
         (b)   Special signage for open houses associated with the sale or
lease of property in AG, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, PD, and MF zoning districts. A
salesperson shall be permitted to place a maximum of three directional signs on
public property to inform the public of the location of an open house. Each
sign shall not exceed six square feet in gross area, shall be placed within
reasonable distance of the open house, and may only be displayed from dawn to
dusk on the day of the open house. The salesperson shall be responsible for the
prompt removal of these signs. No permit shall be required;
         (c)   One non-illuminated temporary sign bearing only the street
number of a new or remodeled structure and the name or names of the general
contractor, subcontractors, owner, and/or tenant, during construction work on
the premises upon which they are placed, not exceeding 12 square feet in total
gross surface area. This sign shall be removed within seven days after
substantial completion of the construction work and in no event shall this type
of sign be exhibited for more than 12 months. It shall be the responsibility of
the general contractor to see that the signage conforms with this code section;
         (d)   Temporary political sign in accordance with §
156.099 of this code;
         (e)   Temporary sign for the sale of motorized vehicles by other than
a commercial dealer of new/used vehicles in accordance with §
156.098(C); and
         (f)   Garage sale signs in accordance with §
156.098(B).
   (D)   Residential zoning district (MF) permitted signs and provisions. In
the MF zoning district, the restrictions, prohibitions, and regulations for
signs in residential zoning district MF shall be the same as given in division
(C) for the residence districts, with the following additions.
      (1)   Apartment or condominium complexes of one to three buildings shall
be permitted a single nameplate sign on each building displaying only the
building name or management name. The gross area of each sign shall not exceed
two square feet.
      (2)   Apartment or condominium complexes of four or more buildings shall
be allowed one freestanding sign displaying only the name of the complex in
lieu of individual building nameplate signs, and to be constructed to the
specifications listed in §
156.082(A).
      (3)   Temporary signs. One non-illuminated temporary sign pertaining to
the lease or sale of the premises upon which it is placed and not exceeding
four square feet in gross surface area, provided that the sign shall be removed
within seven days after the consummation of the sale or lease or the
termination of the agent's authority.
   (E)   Commercial zoning district (C-1) permitted signs and provisions. In
the C-1 zoning district, the following signs shall be permitted:
      (1)   Permanent signs.
         (a)   All signs permitted in R-1, R-2, R-3, and R-4 zoning districts,
except that freestanding signs shall not be allowed in a C-1 zoning district;
         (b)   Businesses located in a C-1 zoning district shall be allowed one
principal sign for each business with frontage. These signs may be wall signs,
monument signs, canopy signs, marquee signs, or mansard signs; and
         (c)   Drive-in or drive-through merchandising businesses shall be
allowed one informational (menu, price, and the like) sign not exceeding 15
square feet in gross area.
      (2)   Temporary signs. One non-illuminated temporary sign pertaining to
the lease or sale of the premises upon which it is placed and not exceeding 16
square feet in gross surface area, provided that the sign shall be removed
within seven days after the consummation of the sale or lease or the
termination of the agent's authority.
   (F)   Commercial zoning district (C-2) permitted signs and provisions. In
the C-2 zoning district, the following signs shall be permitted:
      (1)   Permanent signs.
         (a)   All signs permitted in R-1, R-2, R-3, and R-4 zoning districts,
except that freestanding signs shall not be allowed in a C-2 zoning district;
         (b)   Businesses located in a C-2 zoning district shall be allowed one
principal sign for each business with frontage. These signs may be wall signs,
monument signs, canopy signs, marquee signs, or mansard signs; and
         (c)   Drive-in or drive-through merchandising businesses shall be
allowed one informational (menu, price, or the like) sign not exceeding 15
square feet in gross area.
      (2)   Temporary signs. One non-illuminated temporary sign pertaining to
the lease or sale of the premises upon which it is placed and not exceeding 16
square feet in gross surface area, provided that the sign shall be removed
within seven days after the consummation of the sale or lease or the
termination of the agent's authority.
   (G)   Commercial zoning district (C-3) permitted signs and provisions. In
the C-3 zoning district, the following signs shall be permitted:
      (1)   Permanent signs.
         (a)   All signs permitted in R-1, R-2, R-3, and R-4 zoning districts;
         (b)   Businesses located in a C-3 district shall be allowed one
principal sign for each business with frontage. These signs may be wall signs,
monument signs, canopy signs, marquee signs, or mansard signs; and
         (c)   Drive-in or drive-through merchandising businesses shall be
allowed one informational (menu, price, and the like) sign not exceeding 15
square feet in gross area.
      (2)   Temporary signs. One non-illuminated temporary sign pertaining to
the lease or sale of the premises upon which it is placed and not exceeding 16
square feet in gross surface area, provided that the sign shall be removed
within seven days after the consummation of the sale or lease or the
termination of the agent's authority.
(Ord. 23, §§ 2.50.100 - 2.50.160, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 2003-109A, passed
10-8-2004; Am. Ord. 210-A, passed 12-10-2015) Penalty, see §
156.999
Cross-reference:
   Permitted signs, see
Appendix D
§ 156.098 SPECIFIC TYPES OF SIGNS.
   (A)   Gasoline service station signs.
      (1)   Each service station may select two of the following three types of
principal signage:
         (a)   One freestanding monument sign advertising the name of the
station and/or principal products sold on the premises, and may include the
product brand name, logo, insignia or emblem. This sign shall not exceed five
feet in height, eight feet in length, or be more than 24 square feet in gross
surface area, and must be contained completely within the vertical projection
of the property lines. Display surface area does not include architectural
details included in the construction of the sign;
         (b)   Signs attached to a canopy (not the vertical supports of the
canopy) constructed to shelter areas of the service station. The sign shall not
exceed 24 square feet in gross surface area. Two of these signs shall be
allowed on a canopy so long as the angle between the extension of the planes of
the two signs is 60 degrees or less. The sign may contain only the information
allowed in division (A)(1)(a) above; or
         (c)   A wall mounted sign attached to the principal frontage of the
service station building. The sign shall not exceed 24 square feet in gross
surface area and may contain only the information allowed in division (A)(1)(a)
above.
      (2)   A service station abutting a second street may also have one of the
following signs:
         (a)   A sign attached to an additional face of a canopy as set forth
in division (A)(1)(b) above. This sign may be selected regardless of any other
canopy signs; or
         (b)   An additional wall mounted sign attached to the side of the
service station building most nearly facing the abutting street. This sign
shall not exceed 20 square feet in gross surface area and may contain only the
information allowed in division (A)(1) above.
      (3)   The following signs shall be allowed to advertise the price of
fuels available. These signs may also advertise the price of one other product
offered for sale so long as the area of the sign for that purpose does not
exceed one-third of the sign area displaying fuel prices.
         (a)   One sign displayed along the principal frontage of the station
property. This sign shall be integrated with a freestanding monument sign, but
that integration shall not be more than 24 feet in gross display area.
      (4)   If other items, such as groceries, sandwiches, and the like, are
sold from a specific area of the station, then up to 40% of a wall mounted sign
on the station building may be used as changeable copy area to advertise the
availability and price of those items. No changeable copy sign of this type
shall be allowed on canopy signs or freestanding monument signs. In addition,
one wall mounted sign attached to the building where these other items are sold
shall be permitted identifying this service by name only. This sign shall not
exceed six square feet in gross surface area.
      (5)   When multiple corporations share one site, the corporate logos
shall be located together on the same sign.
      (6)   Signs related to safety, operations, and products are allowable at
pump islands but shall be scaled for the visibility of the user.
   (B)   Garage sale signs.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         GARAGE SALE SIGN. A temporary sign announcing a private garage,
basement, or yard sale of property owned by the property owner on which
property the sale is to be conducted.
      (2)   Any of this type of sign shall be removed on the last day of the
sale. These signs shall be limited to a total gross aggregate area of six
square feet. In addition, pennant signs may be placed on the site of the garage
sale for the duration of the sale. A resident or permitted institution in a
district shall be allowed to hold no more than two sales of used or unwanted
personal property on the premises for no more than three consecutive days, per
each event, in a calendar year, not to exceed three consecutive days in any
six-month period.
   (C)   Signs for the sale of motorized vehicles.
      (1)   This section applies to signs offering any type of motorized
vehicle for sale by other than a dealer of new and/or used vehicles and applies
to all zoning districts.
      (2)   For sale signs or any signage implying that a vehicle is for sale
shall be limited to two signs, each a maximum of two square feet in size, and
must be securely attached to the vehicle offered for sale.
      (3)   A vehicle when not in use, with for sale signs attached, may only
be displayed at the address to which it is currently registered and licensed.
      (4)   For sale signs for motorized vehicles shall not require a sign
permit.
   (D)   Wall-mounted signs. Wall-mounted signs shall be safely and securely
attached to the building wall by means of metal anchors, bolts, or expansion
screws. In no case shall any wall-mounted sign be secured with wire, strips of
wood or nails.
      (1)   For single occupant buildings, locate wall-mounted signs at the
first floor level only.
      (2)   Wall signs shall identify the individual business, building or
building complex by name or trademark only.
      (3)   Changeable copy shall not be incorporated into signs in this
division with the exception of gasoline service stations.
   (E)   Educational institution use signage.
      (1)   One monument sign at each vehicular entrance to the property, but
not to exceed two such signs for the entire property, and one wall-mounted sign
above the primary entrance to the building shall be allowed. All monument signs
shall be placed in the front yard of the property;
      (2)   All monument signs shall be limited to five feet in height, ten
feet in length, and have a display area of 36 square feet, not including
architectural details. All signs shall be constructed of materials that are
architecturally compatible with the property they are located on;
      (3)   Signs with interchangeable letters are permitted, provided that
they do not exceed 12 inches in height and not more than 20% of the total sign
area;
      (4)   An animated sign may be incorporated within the body of the signs,
provided that they do not exceed 12 inches in height and not more than 20% of
the total sign area.
      (5)   This section does not apply to daycare facilities and schools
within churches.
   (F)   Other institutional use signage.
      (1)   Institutions for the purpose of this section shall include
churches, hospitals, and nursing homes;
      (2)   One monument sign at each vehicular entrance to the property, but
not to exceed two such signs for the entire property, and one wall-mounted sign
above the primary entrance to the building shall be allowed. All monument signs
shall be placed in the front year of the property;
      (3)   All monument signs shall be limited to five feet in height, ten
feet in length, and have a display area of 36 square feet, not including
architectural details. All signs shall be constructed of materials that are
architecturally compatible with the property they are located on;
      (4)   Signs with interchangeable letters are permitted, provided that
they do not exceed 12 inches in height and not more than 20% of the total sign
area.
(Ord. 23, § 2.50.170, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 86, passed 11-21-2000; Am.
Ord. 2003-109A, passed 10-8-2004; Am. Ord. 210-A, passed 12-10-2015) Penalty,
see §
156.999
§ 156.099 POLITICAL SIGNS.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the political sign regulations.
   (B)   The enforcement of this section can be by any town official or his or
her agent.
   (C)   Political signs shall be permitted to be placed on premises 30 days
prior to a primary or general election and shall be removed within three days
after that primary or general election. Political banners are subject to the
same time limitations as political signs.
   (D)   Political campaign signs announcing the candidates seeking public
offices and other data pertinent thereto, up to a total area of eight square
feet for each premises, will not be required to obtain a permit. All signs
larger than eight square feet will be required to obtain a permit. Signs of
this nature shall not exceed 32 square feet in size, nor eight feet in height.
These signs shall be confined within private property and not within the street
right-of-way and shall be removed within three days after the election for
which they apply. No signs shall be attached to utility poles, trees, or any
public or private sign standards.
(Ord. 86, passed 11-21-2000; Am. Ord. 2003-109A, passed 10-8-2004)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.100 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Any lawfully erected sign which is rendered nonconforming by this
chapter may continue to be maintained exactly as it exists at the time, subject
to the terms and provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   All signs made nonconforming by this provision of this chapter shall
be removed not later than seven years from the effective date of this
ordinance.
   (C)    No nonconforming sign shall:
      (1)   Be changed to another nonconforming sign;
      (2)   Have any changes made in the words or symbols used or the message
displayed on the sign unless the sign is specifically designed for periodic
changes of message;
      (3)   Be structurally altered or repaired to prolong the life of the sign
or so as to change the shape, size, type, or design of the sign;
      (4)   Be established after the activity, business, or usage to which it
relates has been discontinued for 30 days or longer;
      (5)   Be reestablished after the damage or reconstruction exceeds 25% of
the reproduction cost; or
      (6)   Expanded, moved or relocated.
(Ord. 23, § 2.50.190, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 2003-109A, passed 10-8-2004;
Am. Ord. 210-A, passed 12-10-2015) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.101 DESIGN REVIEW STANDARDS.
   The following design standards shall be used in reviewing signs and sign
plans for consistency with the purpose and intent of this chapter.
   (A)   Items of information.
      (1)   Items of information should be limited to reduce sign clutter and
ensure sign legibility.
      (2)   Items of information shall include: words, initials, logos,
abbreviations, groups of numbers, symbols, pictures, photographs, emblems or
geometric shapes.
   (B)   Relationship to buildings.
      (1)   Signs located upon a lot with only one main building shall be
designed to be compatible with the predominant visual elements of the building.
Such visual elements include architectural style, construction materials, color
and other design details.
      (2)   Signs located upon a lot with more than one main building or
tenant, such as a shopping center or other commercial or industrial area
developed in accordance with a common development plan, shall be designed to be
compatible with the predominant visual design elements common to all such
buildings.
   (C)   Relationship to other signs. Where more than one freestanding monument
sign is to be located on a lot, all such signs shall have designs which are
complementary to each other by either identical or similar treatment of two or
more of the following design elements:
      (1)   Type of construction materials for sign and support structures;
      (2)   Style of letters;
      (3)   Background color of sign;
      (4)   Shape of entire sign and its several components.
   (D)   Landscaping. Freestanding monument signs shall be located in a planted
landscaped area which is of a shape, design and size that will provide a
compatible setting and ground definition to the sign. The planted landscaped
area shall be maintained in a neat and healthy condition.
   (E)   Illumination. Illumination, if any, shall be provided by artificial
light which is constant in intensity and color. External illumination of
freestanding monument signs is encouraged. Internally illuminated signs are
acceptable; provided background and copy are coordinated to avoid excessive
light output.
   (F)   Compatibility with residential areas. Signs located on commercial,
office and industrial use properties adjacent to residential areas or civic use
properties within residential areas shall be designed to minimize visual
impacts upon adjacent residential neighborhoods.
   (G)   Relationship to street. Signs shall be designed or placed so as not to
obstruct right-of-way views for pedestrians, bicyclists or automobile drivers.
(Ord. 210-A, passed 12-10-2015)
AG, AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
§ 156.110 INTENT.
   The principal use of this land is for agricultural purposes, including
farming, dairying, pasturage, apiculture, horticulture, floriculture,
viticulture, and animal and poultry husbandry, and including farm dwellings and
lodging for permanent or seasonal workers. It is the intent of this district to
allow agriculture use and preserve prime agricultural land. It is not the
intent of this district to allow residential subdivisions and developments or
commercial uses, except those commercial uses allowed by the table in Appendix
A of this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 3.10.10, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.111 PERMITTED USES.
   Uses permitted by right, permitted by special exception, and uses excluded
from this district are as listed in the table in Appendix A of this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 3.10.20, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.112 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations are permitted in AG districts under the requirements of §
156.152 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.10.30, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.113 AREA AND BULK REQUIREMENTS.
   Area and bulk requirements are required as set forth in the table in
Appendix B of this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 3.10.40, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.114 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking shall be provided as set forth in §§
156.055 through
156.065 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.10.50, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.115 PRIVATE GARAGES AND OTHER ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Private garages and other accessory buildings are discussed in §
156.041 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.10.60, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.116 FRONTAGE.
   All buildings and structures in this use district shall be so constructed or
located upon the lot as to have unobstructed frontage upon a public street or a
private street of record.
(Ord. 23, § 3.10.70, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.117 STORAGE RESTRICTIONS.
   All rolling stock except properly licensed vehicles for personal use are to
be stored in the rear yard. All personal property must be stored in the rear
yard.
(Ord. 23, § 3.10.80, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.118 GARAGE SALES, YARD SALES, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Garage sales, yard sales, and sales of used or unwanted items. A
resident or permitted institution in an agricultural district shall be allowed
to hold no more than two sales of used or unwanted personal property on the
premises, for no more than three consecutive days per each event, in a calendar
year. Any garage sale, yard sale, or other sale or public marketing on the
premises in excess of this limitation, or any sale of property which was
purchased or acquired for resale, is prohibited.
   (B)   Signage for sales. Sign regulations are discussed in §§
156.075 through
156.085 and
156.095 through
156.100 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.10.90, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
AG-B, AGRICULTURAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 156.130 INTENT.
   The intended use of this district is to allow certain commercial uses
related to agriculture to be placed in a fashion which does not negatively
impact surrounding property owners.
(Ord. 23, § 3.20.10, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.131 PERMITTED USES.
   Uses permitted by right, permitted by special exception, and uses excluded
from this district are as listed in the table in Appendix A of this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 3.20.20, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.132 AREA AND BULK REQUIREMENTS.
   Area and bulk requirements are required as set forth in the table in
Appendix B of this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 3.20.30, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.133 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking shall be provided as set forth in §§
156.055 through
156.065 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.20.40, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.134 PRIVATE GARAGES AND OTHER ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Private garages and other accessory buildings are discussed in §
156.041 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.20.50, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.135 FRONTAGE.
   All buildings and structures in this use district shall be so constructed or
located upon the lot as to have unobstructed frontage upon a public street or a
private street of record.
(Ord. 23, § 3.20.60, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.136 STORAGE RESTRICTIONS.
   No outside storage is permitted in this district.
(Ord. 23, § 3.20.70, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.137 GARAGE SALES, YARD SALES, AND THE LIKE.
   Garage sales, yard sales, and sales of used or unwanted items are not
permitted in this district.
(Ord. 23, § 3.20.90, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
R-1, LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.150 INTENT.
   This district is established for areas in the town where the principal use
of the land is for large, single-family dwellings on medium to large sized
lots. It is the intent of this district to prohibit business, commercial, or
industrial use of the land, and to prohibit any other use which would
substantially interfere with development or continuation of single-family
dwellings in this district.
(Ord. 23, § 3.30.10, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.151 PERMITTED USES.
   Uses permitted by right, permitted by special exception, and uses excluded
from this district are as listed in the table in Appendix A of this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 3.30.20, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.152 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   A home occupation which is accessory to the residential use of the property
shall be permitted subject to the following conditions.
   (A)   No home occupation shall be operated in manner that creates excessive
noise, odor, or other nuisances, creates traffic, fire, or any other safety
hazard, or is operated in violation of any and all applicable federal, state,
and local laws, rules, and regulations.
   (B)   No walk-in retail sales shall be conducted on premise.
   (C)   There shall be no bulk storage of stock or materials.
   (D)   A home occupation may only employ resident family members and one non-
resident person.
   (E)   The gross floor area for home occupation use shall be less than 20% of
gross floor area of the structure, but in no event shall gross floor area for
home occupation use exceed 500 square feet.
   (F)   All parking shall be off-street.
   (G)   All business shall be conducted by appointment only.
   (H)   No home occupation shall use signs, lighting, or any other visible
display to indicate the presence of a business in the dwelling unit.
   (I)   If the home occupation is a child day care facility, the
administration of this chapter shall be in compliance with I.C. 36-7-4-1108. A
child care home will be responsible for meeting the zoning requirements,
developmental standards, and building codes as applicable.
   (J)   All activities of the home occupation, including storage, shall be
conducted within the dwelling or accessory building.
   (K)   All pickups and delivery of materials used in the home occupation
shall be carried out between 9:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
   (L)   The Building Administrator may review any home occupation with the
provisions of this chapter. In the event he or she determines a home occupation
fails to comply with this chapter, the operator may request a review of that
decision by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (M)   Should a majority (50% +1) of the adjacent residents file written
complaints regarding the conduct of the home occupation, the Building
Administrator shall investigate the complaints and forward the complaint to the
Board of Zoning Appeals for review and appropriate action up to and including
ordering the home occupation to cease operations.
(Ord. 23, § 3.30.30, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.153 AREA AND BULK REQUIREMENTS.
   Area and bulk requirements are required as set forth in the table in
Appendix B of this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 3.30.40, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.154 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking shall be provided as set forth in §§
156.055 through
156.065 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.30.50, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.155 PRIVATE GARAGES AND OTHER ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Private garages and other accessory buildings are discussed in §
156.041 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.30.60, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.156 FRONTAGE.
   All buildings and structures in this use district shall be so constructed or
located upon the lot as to have unobstructed frontage upon a public street or a
private street of record.
(Ord. 23, § 3.30.70, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.157 STORAGE RESTRICTIONS.
   All personal property must be stored in the rear yard and may not be visible
from surrounding property.
(Ord. 23, § 3.30.80, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.158 GARAGE SALES, YARD SALES, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Garage sales, yard sales, and sales of used or unwanted items. A
resident or permitted institution in a residential district shall be allowed to
hold no more than two sales of used or unwanted personal property on the
premises for no more than three consecutive days, per each event, in a calendar
year. Any garage sale, yard sale, or other sale or public marketing on the
premises in excess of this limitation, or any sale of property which was
purchased or acquired for resale, is prohibited.
   (B)   Signage for sales. Sign regulations are discussed in §§
156.075 through
156.085 and
156.095 through
156.100 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.30.90, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
R-2, MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.170 INTENT.
   This district is established for areas in the town where the principal use
of the land is for medium sized single-family dwellings on medium sized lots.
It is the intent of this district to prohibit business, commercial, or
industrial use of the land, and to prohibit any other use which would
substantially interfere with development or continuation of single-family
dwellings in this district.
(Ord. 23, § 3.40.10, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.171 PERMITTED USES.
   Uses permitted by right, permitted by special exception, and uses excluded
from this district are as listed in the table in Appendix A of this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 3.40.20, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.172 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations are permitted in this district under the requirements of §
156.152 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.40.30, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.173 AREA AND BULK REQUIREMENTS.
   Area and bulk requirements are required as set forth in the table in
Appendix B of this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 3.40.40, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.174 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking shall be provided as set forth in §§
156.055 through
156.065 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.40.50, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.175 PRIVATE GARAGES AND OTHER ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Private garages and other accessory buildings are discussed in §
156.041 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.40.60, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.176 FRONTAGE.
   All buildings and structures in this use district shall be so constructed or
located upon the lot as to have unobstructed frontage upon a public street or a
private street of record.
(Ord. 23, § 3.40.70, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.177 STORAGE RESTRICTIONS.
   All personal property must be stored in the rear yard and may not be visible
from surrounding property.
(Ord. 23, § 3.40.80, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.178 GARAGE SALES, YARD SALES, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Garage sales, yard sales, and sales of used or unwanted items. A
resident or permitted institution in a residential district shall be allowed to
hold no more than two sales of used or unwanted personal property on the
premises for no more than three consecutive days, per each event, in a calendar
year. Any garage sale, yard sale, or other sale or public marketing on the
premises in excess of this limitation, or any sale of property which was
purchased or acquired for resale, is prohibited.
   (B)   Signage for sales. Sign regulations are discussed in §§
156.075 through
156.085 and
156.095 through
156.100 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.40.90, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
R-3, HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.190 INTENT.
   This district is established for those areas in the town where the principal
use of the land is for smaller sized single-family dwelling units on smaller
sized lots. All development will be on a central sewage system in this
district. It is the intent of this district to prohibit business, commercial,
or industrial use of the land, and to prohibit any other use which would
substantially interfere with development or continuation of single-family
dwellings in this district.
(Ord. 23, § 3.50.10, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.191 PERMITTED USES.
   Uses permitted by right, permitted by special exception, and uses excluded
from this district are as listed in the table in Appendix A of this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 3.50.20, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.192 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations are permitted in this district under the requirements of §
156.152 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.50.30, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.193 AREA AND BULK REQUIREMENTS.
   Area and bulk requirements are required as set forth in the table in
Appendix B of this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 3.50.40, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.194 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking shall be provided as set forth in §§
156.055 through
156.065 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.50.50, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.195 PRIVATE GARAGES AND OTHER ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Private garages and other accessory buildings are discussed in §
156.041 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.50.60, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.196 FRONTAGE.
   All buildings and structures in this use district shall be so constructed or
located upon the lot as to have unobstructed frontage upon a public street or a
private street of record.
(Ord. 23, § 3.50.70, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.197 STORAGE RESTRICTIONS.
   All personal property must be stored in the rear yard and may not be visible
from surrounding property.
(Ord. 23, § 3.50.80, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.198 GARAGE SALES, YARD SALES, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Garage sales, yard sales, and sales of used or unwanted items. A
resident or permitted institution in a residential district shall be allowed to
hold no more than two sales of used or unwanted personal property on the
premises for not more than three consecutive days, per each event, in a
calendar year. Any garage sale, yard sale, or other sale or public marketing on
the premises in excess of this limitation, or any sale of property which was
purchased or acquired for resale, is prohibited.
   (B)   Signage for sales. Sign regulations are discussed in §§
156.075 through
156.085 and
156.095 through
156.100 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.50.90, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
R-4, RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.210 INTENT.
   (A)   This district is established for those areas in the town where the
principal use of the land is for smaller sized dwelling units on smaller sized
lots. This district allows duplex and triplex residential buildings. All
development will be on a central sewage system in this district.
   (B)   It is the intent of this district to prohibit business, commercial, or
industrial use of the land, and to prohibit any other use which would
substantially interfere with development or continuation of residential
dwellings in this district.
(Ord. 23, § 3.60.10, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.211 PERMITTED USES.
   Uses permitted by right, permitted by special exception, and uses excluded
from this district are as listed in the table in Appendix A of this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 3.60.20, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.212 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations are permitted in this district under the requirements of §
156.152 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.60.30, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.213 AREA AND BULK REQUIREMENTS.
   Area and bulk requirements are required as set forth in the table in
Appendix B of this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 3.60.40, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.214 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking shall be provided as set forth in §§
156.055 through
156.065 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.60.50, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.215 PRIVATE GARAGES AND OTHER ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Private garages and other accessory buildings are discussed in §
156.041 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.60.60, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.216 FRONTAGE.
   All buildings and structures in this use district shall be so constructed or
located upon the lot as to have unobstructed frontage upon a public street or a
private street of record.
(Ord. 23, § 3.60.70, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.217 STORAGE RESTRICTIONS.
   All personal property must be stored in the rear yard and may not be visible
from surrounding property.
(Ord. 23, § 3.60.80, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.218 GARAGE SALES, YARD SALES, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Garage sales, yard sales, and sales of used or unwanted items. A
resident or permitted institution in a residential district shall be allowed to
hold no more than two sales of used or unwanted personal property on the
premises for no more than three consecutive days, per each event, in a calendar
year. Any garage sale, yard sale, or other sale or public marketing on the
premises in excess of this limitation, or any sale of property which was
purchased or acquired for resale, is prohibited.
   (B)   Signage for sales. Sign regulations are discussed in §§
156.075 through
156.085 and
156.095 through
156.100 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.60.90, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
MF, MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.230 INTENT.
   This district is established for those areas in the town where the principal
use of the land is for residential development in excess of three dwelling
units per building. All development in this district will be on central sewage
and water systems. It is the intent of this district to prohibit business,
commercial, or industrial use of the land, and to prohibit any other use which
would substantially interfere with development or continuation of residential
dwellings in this district.
(Ord. 23, § 3.70.10, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.231 PERMITTED USES.
   Uses permitted by right, permitted by special exception, and uses excluded
from this district are as listed in the table in Appendix A of this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 3.70.20, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.232 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations are permitted in this district under the requirements of §
156.112 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.70.30, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.233 AREA AND BULK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Area and bulk requirements are required as set forth in the table in
Appendix B of this chapter.
   (B)   The minimum floor area per dwelling unit is as follows:
      (1)   One bedroom unit: 1,050 sq. ft.;
      (2)   Two bedroom unit: 1,250 sq. ft.;
      (3)   Three bedroom unit: 1,550 sq. ft.; and
      (4)   Add 100 additional square feet for each bedroom in excess of three
bedrooms in a multiple family dwelling unit.
   (C)   Development in this district will be on central sewage and water
systems.
(Ord. 23, § 3.70.40, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 139, passed 12-20-2005)
§ 156.234 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking shall be provided as set forth in §§
156.055 through
156.065 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.70.50, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.235 PRIVATE GARAGES AND OTHER ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Private garages and other accessory buildings are discussed in §
156.041 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.70.60, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.236 FRONTAGE.
   All buildings and structures in this use district shall be so constructed or
located upon the lot as to have unobstructed frontage upon a public street or a
private street of record.
(Ord. 23, § 3.70.70, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.237 STORAGE RESTRICTIONS.
   Storage of personal property is not allowed in this district.
(Ord. 23, § 3.70.80, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.238 GARAGE SALES, YARD SALES, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Garage sales, yard sales, and sales of used or unwanted items. A
resident or permitted institution in a residential district shall be allowed to
hold no more than two sales of used or unwanted personal property on the
premises for no more than three consecutive days, per each event, in a calendar
year. Any garage sale, yard sale, or other sale or public marketing on the
premises in excess of this limitation, or any sale of property which was
purchased or acquired for resale, is prohibited.
   (B)   Signage for sales. Sign regulations are discussed in §§
156.075 through
156.085 and
156.095 through
156.100 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.70.90, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
PD, PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS
§ 156.250 INTENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of this district to foster innovative and diverse
design in land development that is still consistent with both the adopted
Comprehensive Plan and the intent of this chapter and
Chapter 155 of this code. To achieve this, the Commission does not apply any
provisions of §§
156.110 through
156.330 of this code regarding setbacks, lot size, dwelling unit size,
frontage, or minimum lot coverage. Instead, the Commission, assisted by staff
and representatives of the Technical Advisory Committee, negotiates a specific
development plan with the petitioner for PD zoning. The combined elements of
this negotiated plan, rather than district regulations, then become the subject
of the rezoning process. All restrictions and regulations for a specific
planned development are thus contained within the approved and recorded plan
itself, having been arrived at prior to rezoning. PD zoning may be applied to
existing development or to open land, provided the area of the development or
parcel is at least 20 acres in size.
   (B)   The Commission’s goal is to provide a widening variety of
environmentally appropriate residential, commercial, and mixed use developments
to meet the needs of this community. To help create attractive, healthful,
efficient, and stable places to live, shop, and work, the Commission encourages
use of PD zoning within the following contexts:
      (1)   To accommodate compatible development in environmentally sensitive
locations;
      (2)   To enhance compatibility with surrounding land uses;
      (3)   To permit a harmonious variety of uses within a single development;
      (4)   To promote efficiency and thus economy by clustering structures
and/or by using shared facilities or services; and
      (5)   To foster new site treatments not contemplated in other kinds of
zoning districts.
   (C)   In administration of this subchapter, the following development
requirements must be satisfied:
      (1)   Compliance with the Comprehensive Plan;
      (2)   Compatibility of the development with surrounding land uses;
      (3)   Availability and coordination of water, sanitary sewers, stormwater
drainage, and other utilities;
      (4)   Management of traffic in a manner that creates conditions favorable
to health, safety, convenience, and the harmonious development of the
community:
         (a)   The design and location of proposed street and highway access
points are to minimize safety hazards and congestion;
         (b)   The capacity of adjacent streets and highways is to be
sufficient to safely and efficiently accept traffic that will be generated by
the new development;
         (c)   The entrances, streets, and internal traffic circulation
facilities in the development plan are to be compatible with existing and
planned streets and adjacent developments; and
         (d)   In the event a formal traffic study is required for the proper
evaluation of this division (C)(4), the developer shall be responsible for all
costs related to that traffic study.
      (5)   Building setback lines;
      (6)   Building coverage;
      (7)   Building separation;
      (8)   Vehicle and pedestrian circulation;
      (9)   Parking;
      (10)   Landscaping;
      (11)   Signage;
      (12)   Open space;
      (13)   Park land;
      (14)   Outdoor lighting; and
      (15)   Design standards as set forth in
Chapter 155 of this code.
   (D)   If, in the interests of achieving the goals established in divisions
(A) and (B) above, it is necessary to waive one or more of the development
requirements set forth in division (C) above, then the development requirements
in divisions (C)(5) through (C)(14), inclusive, may be relaxed or waived.
(Ord. 23, § 3.80.10, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 45, passed 4-15-1998; Am. Ord.
23-A, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 156.251 ORIGINATION OF PROPOSALS.
   (A)   A request to rezone from any other zoning classification to PD may be
initiated by:
      (1)   All owners of the property in question; or
      (2)   Any group of owners united in interest, acting jointly in pursuance
to an agreement to carry out the proposal in separate ownership.
   (B)   Because of the unified design of a planned development and because the
combined elements of the negotiated plan are the substance of the district
itself, this chapter requires that a request to reclassify from PD to PD shall
include among the petitioners either:
      (1)   All owners of the property within the current planned development;
or
      (2)   The owners’ association acting on behalf of a majority of property
owners in the current planned development, as constituted in the recorded
bylaws.
   (C)   PD zoning is mandatory for any new condominium construction or
condominium conversion.
(Ord. 23, § 3.80.20, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 23-A, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 156.252 CLASSIFICATION OF PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   To identify the nature of planned developments on zoning maps, they
shall be classified as one of these three districts:
      (1)   PDR, in which all buildings and land are developed for residential
use and those activities customarily accessory to residential use;
      (2)   PDC, in which no buildings or land are developed for residential
use, but rather for commercial uses allowed in C-1, C-2, or C-3 districts; or
      (3)   PDM, in which buildings and land are developed as a mix of both
residential and commercial uses.
   (B)   Those PD districts and overlays approved prior to the adoption of this
chapter shall be reclassified as one of the above three zoning categories.
(Ord. 23, § 3.80.30, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 23-A, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 156.253 PRE-SUBMISSION CONFERENCE.
   (A)   Before submitting any of the materials required for a rezoning request
to either PDR, PDC, or PDM, the petitioner shall arrange a meeting with staff
and the appropriate administrative officer.
   (B)   The petitioner shall bring to this meeting a drawing or sketch of the
proposed planned development that:
      (1)   Is at least approximately scaled;
      (2)   Includes the entire tract;
      (3)   Shows, in at least schematic detail, the location of proposed uses
and major buildings, layout and classification of roads, all entrances and
exits, proposed building types and densities, and any common open space;
      (4)   Proposes treatment of environmentally sensitive areas; and
      (5)   Indicates phasing and a time frame for development.
   (C)   Discussion at this meeting shall include:
      (1)   The intent and requirements of PD zoning;
      (2)   The petitioner’s intentions and objectives regarding land use,
street improvements, utilities, and similar matters;
      (3)   The petitioner’s intentions assuring compatibility between uses
proposed for the perimeter of the PD and surrounding land uses and zoning
classifications;
      (4)   General availability of utilities to the site;
      (5)   The area’s current zoning pattern and all elements of the
Comprehensive Plan;
      (6)   Specific materials and documents required in §
156.254 below to be included with the submission, and a list of checkpoint
agencies to be involved;
      (7)   Classification of the proposed rezoning, as PDR, PDC, or PDM, as
per § 156.252; and
      (8)   A proposed schedule for the rezoning process.
   (D)   The Commission discourages use of PD zoning as a way to circumvent the
rezoning and/or subdivision process or to avoid requirements and standards
found in
Chapter 155 of this code and/or elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 3.80.40, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 23-A, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 156.254 PD REZONING REQUEST; FILING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   After a pre-submission meeting the petitioner may file a rezoning
request to one of the PD classifications. The last working day of each month is
the deadline for a petitioner to make a complete submission intended to be
heard as a rezoning request no sooner than the Commission’s public meeting
about one and one-half months later.
   (B)   This submission shall contain the following:
      (1)   A non-refundable processing fee as set by the Commission;
      (2)   A signed and notarized petition to rezone, with metes and bounds
legal description, indicating the PD classification being sought, signed by the
owner or owners of all property involved, or with a notarized affidavit of
consent of all owners attached;
      (3)   A list of names, addresses, and auditor’s key numbers of all
property owners located 300 feet adjacent to and directly across the street,
alley, or railroad right-of-way from the property described in division (B)(2)
above;
      (4)   One notice of public hearing, with a metes and bounds or other
proper legal description and the common address or location of the property;
      (5)   A letter notifying the staff of the petitioner’s intent to submit
notices of public hearings to the designated newspaper;
      (6)   A typed original and an amount of copies as determined by the
Zoning Administrator, including a PDF submittal, of the proposed ordinance to
rezone the property, using the sample format provided by the staff;
      (7)   Two sets of drawings, including a PDF submittal, labeled Draft
Plan, using the format described in
Chapter 155 of this code; to include a published and recorded boundary survey
meeting the requirements of 865 I.A.C. 1 through 12 or its successor; and
      (8)   Two copies, including a PDF submittal, of any proposed covenants
and horizontal property ownership and owners’ association documents, including
amendment provisions that conform to §
156.263. These shall include a table of contents, and be written in plain
language easily understood by most readers.
   (C)   List of Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) members:
      (1)   Zoning Administrator;
      (2)   Town Building Administrator;
      (3)   Town Engineer;
      (4)   Designee of Indiana American Water;
      (5)   Designee of the Winfield Sewer Board;
      (6)   Plan Commission Attorney;
      (7)   Three Members of the Plan Commission;
      (8)   County Highway Department;
      (9)   County Drainage Board (County Surveyor);
      (10)   Volunteer Fire Department;
      (11)   Any additional agencies as requested by staff;
      (12)   Soil and Water Conservation District; and
      (13)   Designee of town Stormwater Board.
   (D)   If the petitioner fails to meet the filing requirements of this
section within six months of the pre- submission meeting date, the petitioner
shall schedule a new pre-submission meeting, as per §
156.253 of this code, in order to continue the project.
(Ord. 23, § 3.80.50, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 191, passed 6-15-2010; Am. Ord.
23-A, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 156.255 REQUIRED REVIEW MEETING.
   (A)   The Commission’s staff shall determine if the petitioner’s submission
is complete.
      (1)   If it is complete, written notices shall be sent to the petitioner,
the petitioner’s representatives, the Technical Advisory Committee, and the
staff, scheduling a required review meeting to be held at a date and time as
determined by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   If the submission is found to be incomplete, the Technical Advisory
Committee shall provide the petitioner feedback verbally, or in writing, during
the TAC meeting.
   (B)   At the required review meeting, the staff and Technical Advisory
Committee will have an opportunity to recommend revisions to the draft or
preliminary plan submission and discuss them with the petitioner and
petitioner’s representatives. Technical Advisory Committee members may provide
written comments to the administrative official instead of being present.
(Ord. 23, § 3.80.60, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 23-A, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 156.256 PETITION TO REZONE TO A PD DISTRICT.
   (A)   The procedure for rezoning to a PD district shall be as established in
§
156.375 of this code, regarding amendments. In the zoning petition, the
petitioner shall state whether the zoning is sought for PDR, PDC, or PDM.
   (B)   In order for the Plan Commission and Town Council to best evaluate the
petition in accordance with §
156.375(D), regarding deliberations, the petitioner should be advised that §
156.250, regarding intent, shall be an important part of the deliberations of
these bodies.
(Ord. 23, § 3.80.70, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 23-A, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 156.257 PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN; SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Following rezoning to a PD classification, the petitioner shall submit
a preliminary development plan reflecting the draft plan put forward during the
rezoning process and any changes thereto. Following the required review meeting
of §
156.255 above, the petitioner shall submit a preliminary plan no later than the
last Wednesday of the month preceding the intended public hearing. A complete
preliminary plan submission shall contain the following:
      (1)   Two copies, including a PDF submittal, of drawings, labeled
Preliminary Plan, containing all the elements of the draft plan reflecting
changes resulting from the required review;
      (2)   If dividing land, two copies, including a PDF submittal, of the
preliminary plat, prepared by a registered land surveyor as per
Chapter 155 of this code, included within the preliminary plans;
      (3)   Two copies, including a PDF submittal, of any covenants and
horizontal property ownership and owners’ association documents, including
amendment provisions that conform to §
156.263 of this code. These shall include a table of contents, and be written
in plain language easily understood by most readers; and
      (4)   Two copies, including a PDF submittal, of sets of drawings, labeled
Construction Plans, plus a full and detailed site analysis and proposed site
plan, utilities plan, sign plan, and landscape plan, prepared in conformance
with
Chapter 155 of this code, for all public and private improvements to be
installed by the developer.
   (B)   If the petitioner fails to meet the preliminary plan submission
requirement within six months of the date of the required review meeting, his
or her draft plan shall be void. If the petitioner wishes to continue with the
project, he or she shall schedule a new pre-submission meeting, as per §
156.253.
(Ord. 23, § 3.80.80, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 23-A, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 156.258 PRELIMINARY PLAN; HEARING AND DISPOSITION.
   (A)   The preliminary plan shall then be heard by the Commission in a public
hearing. The petitioner shall provide notice following the procedures
established in the Commission’s rules of procedure and this chapter. Upon
hearing the request, the Commission may either approve, amend, or disapprove
the preliminary plan.
   (B)   The Commission may impose reasonable conditions with its
determination. Such items include, but are not limited to, being granted
additional approval by another governmental agency such as the Drainage Board,
or obtaining permission to attach to an existing utility.
   (C)   If the Commission requires changes in design regarding the proposed
site, sign, utilities, or landscape plans, then the Commission shall vote to
recommend amendment. Should this happen, the petitioner may resubmit a second
preliminary plan, as per §
156.257 above, for a later rehearing by the Commission.
   (D)   If the Commission determines approval, disapproval, or amendment, a
minimum of three sets of preliminary plans (including drawings, plats, and
covenants) shall be stamped with that determination and signed by the President
and Secretary of the Commission. The distribution of these sets shall be as
follows:
      (1)   One set shall be permanently retained in the office of the
Commission; and
      (2)   A minimum of two sets shall be returned to the petitioner.
(Ord. 23, § 3.80.90, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 23-A, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 156.259 FINAL DETAILED PLANS; APPROVAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Following a successful determination of the preliminary plan, the
petitioner may file final detailed plans. The petitioner can neither seek
location improvement permits nor begin any development activity until the
Commission approves these final detailed plans and the petitioner records them.
To be complete, final detailed plans shall have already been approved and
signed by the appropriate administrative officer, any applicable sanitary sewer
and water provider, public or private, the Superintendent of the County Highway
Department, and the Director of the County Health Department, if applicable.
Final detailed plans may be submitted for the entire project or any part of it.
   (B)   A complete PDR, PDC, or PDM final detailed plans submission shall
contain the following:
      (1)   Evidence that any conditions imposed by the Commission at the time
of its hearing have been met. If final detailed plans for only part of the
project are being submitted, only those conditions bearing on that part need be
met;
      (2)   An amount of copies as determined by the Zoning Administrator,
including a PDF submittal, of sets of drawings, labeled Final Detailed Plans,
consisting of all the elements of the approved preliminary plan, plus full
construction plans, prepared in conformance with the requirements of
Chapter 155 of this code, for all public improvements to be installed by the
developer. The number of sets shall be determined by the staff;
      (3)   If dividing land, an amount of copies as determined by the Zoning
Administrator, including a PDF submittal, and a reproducible mylar of the
signed final plat, prepared by a registered land surveyor in conformance with
Chapter 155, with a planned development dedication certificate appended;
      (4)   An amount of copies as determined by the Zoning Administrator,
including a PDF submittal, of any covenants and horizontal property ownership
and owners’ association documents. These documents shall include a table of
contents, and be written in plain language to be easily understood by most
readers; and
      (5)   A release from the mortgage company, if any, covering the necessary
right-of-way, where right-of-way is to be dedicated.
   (C)   If public improvements or improvements for common usage are to be
installed by the petitioner, he or she shall either post bond for these
improvements, or submit a certified check, or irrevocable letter of credit or
certificate of deposit, as per
Chapter 155. Improvements for common usage include landscaping, recreational
components, utilities, and all other facilities either located in common areas
or designated for common use.
   (D)   If the Commission finds the complete submission of final detailed
plans to conform to the approved preliminary, the Commission shall conduct a
finding of fact and adopt a resolution. After this resolution is adopted, the
petitioner shall not submit an alternate or revised set of final detailed plans
for the same legal description, except under the circumstance described in §
156.260(C) below.
   (E)   The adopted resolution shall be signed and dated by the President and
Secretary of the Commission, and a copy shall be attached to the front of each
set of approved final detailed plans.
   (F)   Adoption of a resolution shall neither constitute nor imply a
participating jurisdiction’s acceptance of any street, easement, or park shown
in final detailed plans. Acceptance is only that of real property itself. The
Commission may require notes to this effect.
(Ord. 23, § 3.80.100, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 23-A, passed 2-8-2022)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.260 APPROVED FINAL DETAILED PLANS; RECORDING.
   (A)   Before performing any development, construction, or earth moving
activity, or applying for location improvement permits, or filing any required
condominium documents, the petitioner shall record approved final detailed
plans in the office of the County Recorder.
   (B)   Final detailed plans shall first be stamped and dated at the County
Auditor’s office, with one set of plans given the County Auditor. The remaining
sets of final detailed plans shall then be stamped, numbered, and recorded at
the County Recorder’s office, and then distributed by the petitioner. The staff
shall provide the petitioner a list of agencies to which the petitioner shall
distribute sets of approved and recorded plans. The petitioner shall keep at
least one set.
   (C)   If the petitioner fails to record final detailed plans for all or any
part of the entire project within six months of the date of their approval,
that approval expires. In order to continue, the petitioner then shall resubmit
final detailed plans for approval, as per §
156.259 above.
   (D)   Any construction that does not fully comply with recorded final
detailed plans will be subject to appropriate enforcement action as provided
for in this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 3.80.110, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 23-A, passed 2-8-2022)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.261 AMENDING RECORDED FINAL DETAILED PLANS.
   (A)   A property owner may wish to make changes to a PDR, PDC, or PDM
project after final detailed plans have been recorded. If these changes are
determined to generally conform to the approved preliminary planned
development, and to constitute a minor modification only, then the changes
shall be recorded as an amended final detailed plan, as per §
156.260 above.
      (1)   This written determination of conformance and minor modification
shall be made and signed by the appropriate administrative officer, and
attached to each copy of the amended final detailed plans before recording.
      (2)   A minor modification cannot include: any increase in residential
density; any decrease in residential density of 10% or more; any major change
in landscaping as determined by the Planning Administrator at their sole
discretion other than substitution of species or redesign with the same
materials; any change in type of land use; or any change in restrictive
covenants, or horizontal property ownership and owners’ association documents
regarding these items.
      (3)   Submission requirements and a timetable for seeking a determination
of conformance and minor modification shall be set by each administrative
officer.
      (4)   Changes beyond the scope of minor modification require rezoning.
   (B)   For any newly constructed condominium project or attached zero-lot-
line project, the property owners shall provide exact measurements locating
buildings and common lot lines after foundations have been put in place. The
revised plat reflecting exact locations needs to be approved and signed by the
appropriate administrative officer as amended final detailed plans, and
recorded as per §
156.260.
(Ord. 23, § 3.80.120, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 23-A, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 156.262 ABANDONED PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Parts or phases of a planned development have been abandoned if ten
years have passed since the date on which rezoning to PDR, PDC, or PDM was
granted, and only final detailed plans for other parts or phases have been
approved and recorded as per §§
156.259 and
156.260 above, unless an extension has been granted by the Town Council, upon
recommendation at a public meeting by the Plan Commission.
   (B)   An administrative officer cannot issue a location improvement permit
for an abandoned planned development or an abandoned part or phase of a planned
development. An abandoned planned development or abandoned part or phase shall
be rezoned (and if to a PD classification, shall comply with §
156.260 above) before the property’s owner once more becomes eligible to
receive a location improvement permit at that location.
   (C)   Neither the Commission nor any legislative body shall initiate a
petition to rezone any PD zoned property unless it has either lapsed or been
abandoned.
(Ord. 23, § 3.80.130, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 93, passed 7-17-2001; Am. Ord.
234, passed 5-13-2014; Am. Ord. 23-A, passed 2-8-2022) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.263 COVENANTS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   To assure property owners that all aspects of a planned development
remain in conformance with plans adopted by the legislative body at the time of
rezoning, restrictive covenants and any horizontal property ownership and
owners’ association documents can only be changed through the procedures
detailed in §
156.261 above.
   (B)   These changes may be initiated only by a majority of property owners
within the planned development. Multiple owners of a single property shall be
considered a single owner. The developer shall be considered a single owner
until all property is sold for purposes of this section only. Multiple lots
owned by one person or entity will be considered one vote in total for purposes
of this section only.
   (C)   The administrative officer may determine that these changes constitute
a minor modification if they meet the requirements of §
156.261(A)(2) above. Changes to these documents which would alter design
aspects of the project, or which are determined by the administrative officer
to be beyond the scope of minor modification, require rezoning. Covenants and
any horizontal property ownership and owners’ association documents must
reflect the provisions of this section.
   (D)   A planned development containing common facilities shall be provided
with an owners’ association or other private organization responsible to and
controlled by the property owners. This organization’s purpose is to ensure
adequate operation and maintenance of these common facilities, which may
include, but are not limited to, private streets, common areas, landscaping,
and amenities such as a clubhouse, playground, pool, or tennis courts. Recorded
legal assurance shall be provided which shows this or any organization to be
self-perpetuating. The rules and procedures governing these associations or
organizations shall have language included that allows the town to maintain
common facilities after letter notice by the town to the organization that they
are not in compliance. Any such costs and fees related to the town’s
intervention shall be assessed to each property owner within the development on
a pro rata/per- lot-owned basis.
   (E)   All streets and roadways not dedicated to nor accepted by a public
agency, and all other common facilities not dedicated to the public, shall be
operated and maintained at no expense to any governmental unit.
(Ord. 23, § 3.80.140, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 23-A, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 156.264 SURETY REQUIREMENTS.
   Surety requirements for planned developments shall comply with those
requirements for surety specified in
Chapter 155 of this code, including forms of surety, performance surety,
maintenance surety, and administrative procedures for failure to complete
improvements.
(Ord. 23, § 3.80.150, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 23-A, passed 2-8-2022)
§ 156.265 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals from a decision made by staff shall be by written appeal to
the Plan Commission.
   (B)   A decision by the Town Council on a rezoning petition is a legislative
act and as such is not subject to review by certiorari.
   (C)   A decision by the Plan Commission regarding a development plan is
subject to review as outlined in I.C. 36-7-4-1016.
(Ord. 23, § 3.80.160, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 23-A, passed 2-8-2022)
C-1, NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.275 INTENT.
   This district is established for those areas in the town where the principal
use of the land is retail, office, and service uses limited in intensity and
scale and needed to serve nearby residential areas and which may act as a
buffer between other commercial uses and residential uses.
(Ord. 23, § 3.90.10, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.276 PERMITTED USES.
   Uses permitted by right, permitted by special exception, and uses excluded
from this district are as listed in the table in Appendix A of this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 3.90.20, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.277 AREA AND BULK REQUIREMENTS.
   Area and bulk requirements are required as set forth in the table in
Appendix B of this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 3.90.30, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.278 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking shall be provided as set forth in §§
156.055 through
156.065 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.90.40, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.279 PRIVATE GARAGES AND OTHER ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   No private garages or other accessory buildings are allowed.
(Ord. 23, § 3.90.50, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.280 FRONTAGE.
   All buildings and structures in this use district shall be so constructed or
located upon the lot as to have unobstructed frontage upon a public street or a
private street of record.
(Ord. 23, § 3.90.60, passed 3-19-1997)
C-2, OFFICE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.290 INTENT.
   This district is established for those areas in the town where the principal
use of the land is for offices and business having a lesser impact on traffic,
lighting, parking, and noise than the general commercial district, C-3. The C-
2 district may be used as a transition from more intensive commercial uses to
residential uses.
(Ord. 23, § 3.100.10, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.291 PERMITTED USES.
   Uses permitted by right, permitted by special exception, and uses excluded
from this district are as listed in the table in Appendix A of this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 3.100.20, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.292 AREA AND BULK REQUIREMENTS.
   Area and bulk requirements are required as set forth in the table in
Appendix B of this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 3.100.30, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.293 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking shall be provided as set forth in §§
156.055 through
156.065 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.100.40, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.294 PRIVATE GARAGES AND OTHER ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   No private garages or other accessory buildings are allowed.
(Ord. 23, § 3.100.50, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.295 FRONTAGE.
   All buildings and structures in this use district shall be so constructed or
located upon the lot as to have unobstructed frontage upon a public street or a
private street of record.
(Ord. 23, § 3.100.60, passed 3-19-1997)
C-3, GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.305 INTENT.
   This district is established for those areas in the town where the principal
use of the land is for those businesses which serve a larger area than those
permitted in office and neighborhood commercial districts, C-1 and C-2, and
whose range of business uses is broader than those allowed in the office and
neighborhood commercial districts. Uses in C-3 are more intensive and less
suitable for location adjacent to most residential neighborhoods.
(Ord. 23, § 3.110.10, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.306 PERMITTED USES.
   Uses permitted by right, permitted by special exception, and uses excluded
from this district are as listed in the table in Appendix A of this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 3.110.20, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.307 AREA AND BULK REQUIREMENTS.
   Area and bulk requirements are required as set forth in the table in
Appendix B of this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 3.110.30, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.308 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking shall be provided as set forth in §§
156.055 through
156.065 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.110.40, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.309 PRIVATE GARAGES AND OTHER ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   No private garages or other accessory buildings are allowed.
(Ord. 23, § 3.110.50, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.310 FRONTAGE.
   All buildings and structures in this use district shall be so constructed or
located upon the lot as to have unobstructed frontage upon a public street or a
private street of record.
(Ord. 23, § 3.110.60, passed 3-19-1997)
M-1, LIGHT MANUFACTURING DISTRICT
§ 156.320 INTENT.
   The M-1 manufacturing district is limited in area and herein controlled by
various restrictions and regulations to assure industrial development
compatible with a restricted residential community and is intended to encourage
development with suitable space, landscaping, and parking area.
(Ord. 23, § 3.120.10, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.321 PERMITTED USES.
   Uses permitted by right, permitted by special exception, and uses excluded
from this district are as listed in the table in Appendix A of this chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 3.120.20, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.322 AREA AND BULK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Area and bulk requirements are required as set forth in the table in
Appendix B of this chapter.
   (B)   Unless authorized as a variance, no building or structure shall be
erected closer than 100 feet to any agricultural, commercial, or residential
district, nor shall any parking area be closer than 40 feet to any
agricultural, residential, or commercial district, which 40-foot area between
the parking lot and that district must be maintained as a greenbelt and/or
green strip, entirely covered in grass, shrubs, and/or trees, as required.
   (C)   Public water and sewers are required for all development in this
district.
(Ord. 23, § 3.120.30, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.323 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   Off-street parking shall be provided as set forth in §§
156.055 through
156.065 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 3.120.40, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.324 PRIVATE GARAGES AND OTHER ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   No private garages or other accessory buildings are allowed.
(Ord. 23, § 3.120.50, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.325 FRONTAGE.
   All buildings and structures in this use district shall be so constructed or
located upon the lot as to have unobstructed frontage upon a public street or a
private street of record.
(Ord. 23, § 3.120.60, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.326 NOISE RESTRICTIONS; VIBRATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Noise. 
      (1)   (a)   Sound levels shall be measured with a sound level meter and
associated octave band filter manufactured according to standards prescribed by
the IOSHA. The flat network and the slow meter response shall be used. Sounds
of short duration which cannot be measured accurately with the sound level
meter shall be measured with the impact noise analyzer, as manufactured by the
General Radio Company or its equivalent, in order to determine the peak value
of the impact.
         (b)   For sounds so measured, the peak values shall not exceed by six
decibels the values given in the table in division (A)(2) below.
      (2)   At no point on the boundary of a residential, commercial, or M-
1 district shall the sound pressure level of any operation or plant (other than
background noises not directly under the control of the manufacturer) exceed
the decibel limits in the octave bands designated in the following table.
Octave Band Frequency, in Cycles per Second (CPS) Decibel Limits
Octave Band Frequency, in Cycles per Decibel Limits
Second (CPS)                         AG and R Boundaries C and M-1 Boundaries
0 to 75                              72                  79
75 to 150                            67                  74
150 to 300                           59                  66
300 to 600                           52                  59
600 to 1,200                         46                  53
1,200 to 2,400                       40                  47
2,400 to 4,800                       34                  41
Over 4,800                           32                  39
 
   (B)   Vibration.  
      (1)   No industrial operation or activity, except those not under the
direct control of the manufacturer, shall cause at any time ground-transmitted
vibrations in excess of the limits set forth below.
      (2)   Vibrations shall be measured at any point along an agricultural,
residential, or commercial zoning district boundary line with a three-component
measuring instrument approved by national recognized standards, and shall be
expressed as displacement in inches.
 
Frequency, in Cycles per Second Vibration Limits Along District Boundary Line,
                                Displacement in Inches
0 to 10                         .0004
10 to 20                        .0002
20 to 30                        .0001
30 to 40                        .0001
40 and over                     .0001
 
(Ord. 23, §§ 3.120.70 and 3.120.80, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.327 SMOKE AND PARTICULATES; TOXIC, NOXIOUS, OR ODOROUS MATTER;
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Smoke and particulate matter.
      (1)   Any use already established on the effective date of this chapter
shall be permitted to be altered, enlarged, expanded, or modified, provided
that new sources of smoke and/or particulate matter conform to the performance
standards established hereinafter for the zoning districts in which the use is
located. The total emission particulate matter from all sources within the
boundaries of the lot shall not exceed the net amount permitted in the zoning
district in which the use is located after any alteration, enlargement,
expansion, or modification.
      (2)   For the purpose of grading the density of smoke, the Ringlemann
Chart, published by the U.S. Bureau of Mines, shall be employed. The emission
of smoke or particulate matter of a density greater than No. 2 on the
Ringlemann Chart is prohibited at all times, except as otherwise provided
hereinafter.
      (3)   The emission, from all sources within any lot area, of particulate
matter containing more than 5% by weight of particles having a particle
diameter larger than 44 microns is prohibited.
      (4)   Dust and other types of air pollution, borne by the wind from such
sources as storage areas, yards, roads, and so forth, within lot boundaries,
shall be kept to a minimum by appropriate landscaping, paving, or other
acceptable means. Emissions of particulate matter from these sources in excess
of the weight limitations specified hereinafter for the zoning district in
which the use shall be located is prohibited.
      (5)   (a)   The emission of more than 12 smoke units per stack in any 30-
minute period is prohibited, including smoke in excess of Ringlemann No. 2.
However, once during any three-hour period, each stack shall be permitted up to
20 smoke units (not to exceed Ringlemann No. 3) in 30 minutes for blowing and
fire.
         (b)   The rate of particulate matter emission from all sources within
the boundaries of any lot shall not exceed a net figure of one point per acre
of lot area during any one-hour period, after deducting from the gross hourly
emission per acre the correction put forth in the following table.
Allowance for Height of Emission
Height of Emission Above Grade (Feet) Correction (Pound/Hour/Acre)
Allowance for Height of Emission
Height of Emission Above Grade (Feet) Correction (Pound/Hour/Acre)
50                                    0.01
100                                   0.06
150                                   0.10
200                                   0.16
300                                   0.30
400                                   0.50
 
         (c)   Interpolate for intermediate values not shown in the above
table.
      (6)   Determination of the total net rate of emission of particulate
matter within the lot boundaries of any lot shall be made as follows.
         (a)   Determine the maximum emission in pounds per hour from each
source of emission and divide this figure by the number of acres of lot area,
thereby obtaining the gross hourly rate of emission in pounds per acre.
         (b)   From each gross hourly rate of emission derived in the above
item, deduct the correction factor (interpolating as required) for height of
emission set forth in the table, thereby obtaining the net rate of emission in
pounds per acre per hour from each source of emission.
         (c)   Add together the individual net rates of emission derived in the
above item, to obtain the total net rate of emission from all sources of
emission within the boundaries of the lot. This total shall not exceed one
pound per acre of lot area during any one hour.
   (B)   Toxic matter. No activity or operation shall cause, at any time, the
discharge of toxic or noxious matter across lot lines in concentrations so as
to be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, comfort, or
welfare, or cause injury or damage to property or business.
   (C)   Noxious or odorous matter. No activity or operations shall cause at
any time the discharge of matter across lot lines in a concentration so as to
be noxious. The emission of odorous matter in quantities so as to be readily
detectable as an odor at any point along a lot line is prohibited.
(Ord. 23, §§ 3.120.90 - 3.120.110, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.328 FIRE AND EXPLOSIVE HAZARDS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Activities involving the manufacture of materials or products which
decompose by detonation are not permitted.
   (B)   The manufacture, utilization, or storage of pyrophoric and explosive
dusts shall be in accordance with safety codes of the National Fire Protection
Association. These dusts include, but are not limited to, aluminum, bronze, or
manganese powder, powdered coal, powdered plastics, flour and feed, spices,
starches, sugar, cocoa, sulfur, grain (storage), and sawdust.
   (C)   The storage, utilization, or manufacture of solid materials or
products ranging from incombustible to moderate burning is permitted.
   (D)   The storage, utilization, or manufacture of solid materials or
products ranging from free or active burning to intense burning is permitted,
provided the following condition is met:
      (1)   These materials shall be stored, utilized, or manufactured within
completely enclosed buildings having incombustible exterior walls, and
protected throughout by an automatic fire extinguishing system; or
      (2)   These materials may be stored outdoors in conformance with the
town’s burning regulations in Chapter 91 of this code and the rules and
regulations of the State Department of Fire Prevention.
(Ord. 23, § 3.120.120, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.329 GLARE AND HEAT RESTRICTED.
   Any operation producing intense glare or heat shall be performed within a
completely enclosed building in a manner so as not to create a public nuisance
or hazard along lot lines. Exposed sources of light from operations producing
intense glare or heat shall be shielded so as not to create a nuisance across
lot lines.
(Ord. 23, § 3.120.130, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.330 ADULT ENTERTAINMENT; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. Any use, activity, business, or
secondary or ancillary use that engages in or permits adult entertainment as
defined in this chapter. Any of this type of enterprise or use shall be deemed
to be an ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT regardless of the frequency of the
adult entertainment offered.
   (B)   No adult entertainment establishment shall be located or permitted to
remain within 1,000 feet of a church, park, school (public or private), any
residential zoning district, or any other adult entertainment establishment.
   (C)   No adult entertainment establishment shall serve or allow its patrons,
visitors, or guests to consume alcoholic beverages of any kind.
(Ord. 23, § 3.120.140, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 156.340 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby established in accordance with I.C. 36-
7-4-900 series - Board of Zoning Appeals, as amended from time to time, and
this Board shall be called the Town Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 23, § 4.20.10, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.341 ORGANIZATION.
   Membership of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be as follows:
   (A)   Number and appointment.
      (1)   Three citizen members appointed by the executive of the Town
Council, of whom one must be a member of the Plan Commission and two must not
be members of the Plan Commission;
      (2)   One citizen member appointed by the Town Council, who must not be a
member of the Plan Commission; and
      (3)   One member appointed by the Plan Commission, who must be a citizen
member of the Plan Commission other than the member appointed under division
(A)(1) above.
   (B)   Membership terms.
      (1)   When an initial term of office expires, each new appointment is for
a term of four years.
      (2)   The members shall initially be appointed for the following terms of
office:
         (a)   One for a term of one year;
         (b)   One for a term of two years;
         (c)   One for a term of three years; and
         (d)   Two for a term of four years.
      (3)   Under division (B)(2) above, each term expires on the first Monday
of January of the first, second, third, or fourth year, respectively, after the
year of the member’s appointment.
(Ord. 23, § 4.20.30, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.342 JURISDICTION.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have territorial jurisdiction over all the
land subject to this zoning chapter.
(Ord. 23, § 4.20.20, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.343 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the following powers and duties
in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-900 et seq., as may be amended from time to
time:
      (1)   To hear and determine appeals from and review any order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative official,
hearing officer, or staff member under this chapter;
      (2)   To hear and determine appeals from and review any order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative board or
other body except the Plan Commission, in relation to the enforcement of this
chapter;
      (3)   To hear and determine appeals from and review any order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative board or
other body except the Plan Commission, in relation to the enforcement of an
ordinance adopted under this chapter requiring the procurement of a location
improvement permit or occupancy permit;
      (4)   To hear and forward a recommendation to the Town Council regarding
use variances from the terms of this chapter;
      (5)   To approve or deny variances from the development standards, such
as height, bulk, or area, of this chapter;
      (6)   To hear and forward a recommendation to the Town Council regarding
special exceptions, special uses, contingent uses, and/or conditional uses, as
they may be provided for or by this chapter; and
      (7)   Other duties as may be allowed under the I.C. 36-7-4-900 series -
Board of Zoning Appeals, as may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may adopt rules and procedures for the
utilization of a written commitment concerning the use or development of a
parcel of property in conjunction with a petition for a special exception,
special use, contingent use, conditional use, or variance.
(Ord. 23, § 4.20.40, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 45, passed 4-15-1998)
§ 156.344 RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall adopt rules, which shall not
conflict with this chapter, concerning:
      (1)   The filing of appeals;
      (2)   The application for variances, special exceptions, special uses,
contingent uses, and conditional uses;
      (3)   The giving of notice;
      (4)   The conduct of hearings; and
      (5)   The determination of whether a variance application is for a
variance of use or for a variance from the development standards (such as
height, bulk, or area).
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may also adopt rules providing for:
      (1)   The allocation of cases filed among the divisions of the Board of
Zoning Appeals;
      (2)   The fixing of dates for hearings; and
      (3)   The general conduct of the business of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 23, § 4.20.50, passed 3-19-1997)
VARIANCES, USE VARIANCES, AND SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS; APPEALS
§ 156.355 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall approve or deny variances from the
development standards (such as height, bulk, or area) of this zoning chapter.
Conditions may be imposed as a part of the approval of the variance.
   (B)   A variance may be approved under this section only upon a
determination in writing that:
      (1)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the community;
      (2)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included in
the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner; and
      (3)   The strict application of the terms of this chapter will result in
practical difficulties in the use of the property.
(Ord. 23, § 4.20.60, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.356 USE VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear, deliberate, and forward a
recommendation to the Town Council regarding use variances pursuant to §
156.358 of this code. Conditions may be imposed as part of the approval of the
use variance. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall make a written recommendation
to the Town Council.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may forward a favorable recommendation
only upon a determination in writing that:
      (1)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the community;
      (2)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included in
the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner;
      (3)   The need for the variance arises from some conditions peculiar to
the property involved;
      (4)   The strict application of the terms of this chapter will constitute
an unnecessary hardship if applied to the property for which the variance is
sought; and
      (5)   The approval does not interfere substantially with the
Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 23, § 4.20.70, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.357 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear, deliberate, and forward a
recommendation to the Town Council regarding special exceptions pursuant to §
156.358 of this code. Conditions may be imposed as part of the approval of the
special exception. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall make a written
recommendation to the Town Council.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may forward a favorable recommendation
only upon a determination in writing that:
      (1)   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the community;
      (2)   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included in
the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner;
      (3)   The need for the variance arises from some conditions peculiar to
the property involved;
      (4)   The strict application of the terms of this chapter will constitute
an unnecessary hardship if applied to the property for which the variance is
sought; and
      (5)   The approval does not interfere substantially with the
Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 23, § 4.20.80, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.358 REVIEW BY TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall submit any of the following
petitions to the legislative body for approval or disapproval:
      (1)   Special exceptions;
      (2)   Special uses; and
      (3)   Use variances.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall file a petition under this section
with the Clerk-Treasurer with:
      (1)   A favorable recommendation;
      (2)   An unfavorable recommendation; or
      (3)   No recommendation.
   (C)   The Town Council shall give notice under I.C. 5-14-1.5-5 of its
intention to consider the petition at its first regular meeting after the Board
of Zoning Appeals files its recommendation.
   (D)   (1)   The Town Council shall vote to grant or deny the petition within
90 days after the Board of Zoning Appeals makes its recommendation to the
Council.
      (2)   If the Town Council does not vote to deny the petition within 90
days, the petition is approved.
   (E)   If the Town Council approves a petition, it must make the
determination in writing as required under §§
156.356 or
156.357 of this code, as applicable. The Council may adopt the written
determination of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 23, § 4.20.90, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.359 RESTRICTIONS ON VARIANCES, USE VARIANCES, AND SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      VARIANCE. Includes VARIANCES, use variances, and special exceptions.
   (B)   A nonconforming use of neighboring lands, buildings, or structures in
the same zoning district, and a permitted use of lands, buildings, or
structures in other zoning districts shall not be considered grounds for
approval of a variance. Any other variance granted in the same general area
shall not constitute grounds for approval of another similar variance.
   (C)   The variance will be the minimum variance that will make possible a
reasonable use of the land, building, or structure, equivalent to but not
exceeding the use of similar lands, buildings, or structures permitted
generally in the same zoning district.
(Ord. 23, § 4.20.100, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 93, passed 7-17-2001; Am. Ord.
210-A, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 156.360 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals to the Board.
      (1)   An appeal filed with the Board of Zoning Appeals must specify the
grounds of the appeal and must be filed within ten days from the date of the
action appealed from. In the event appeal is not taken as specified herein, the
right of appeal shall be terminated.
      (2)   The administrative official or other body from whom the appeal is
taken shall, on the request of the Board of Zoning Appeals, transmit all
documents, plans, and papers constituting the record of the action from which
an appeal was taken.
      (3)   Upon appeal, the Board of Zoning Appeals may reverse, affirm, or
modify the order, determination, requirement, or decision appealed. For this
purpose, the Board of Zoning Appeals has all the powers of the official,
officer, board, or body from whom the appeal is taken.
      (4)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall make a decision on any matter
that it is required to hear, as specified in §§
156.340 through
156.344 and
156.355 through
156.360 of this code, either:
         (a)   At the meeting at which the matter is first presented; or
         (b)   At the conclusion of the hearing on that matter, if it is
continued.
      (5)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall file in the office of the Board
of Zoning Appeals, a copy of its decision, within five days after making any
decision.
   (B)   Appeals to court. Each decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals and/or
Town Council under §§
156.340 through
156.344 and
156.355 through
156.360 of this code is subject to review by certiorari. Each person aggrieved
by a decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals may present to the circuit or
superior court of the county, a verified petition setting forth that the
decision is illegal in whole or in part, and specifying the grounds of the
illegality. The aggrieved person shall present the petition to the court within
30 days after the date of that decision.
(Ord. 23, §§ 4.20.110 and 4.20.120, passed 3-19-1997)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 156.370 AUTHORITY; BUILDING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by
the Building Administrator. It is the intent of this chapter that all questions
of interpretation and enforcement shall be first presented to the Building
Administrator, and that these questions shall be presented to the Board of
Zoning Appeals only on appeal from the decision of the Building Administrator,
and that recourse from the decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be
directly to the courts, as provided by law and particularly I.C. 36-7-4 et
seq., as amended.
   (B)   If the Building Administrator shall find that any of the provisions of
this chapter are being violated, the Building Administrator shall notify in
writing the person responsible for the violations, indicating the nature of the
violation and ordering the action necessary for correction. The Building
Administrator shall order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings, or
structures; removal of illegal buildings or structures or of additions,
alterations, or structural changes thereto; discontinuance of any illegal work
being done; or shall take any action authorized by this chapter to insure
compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions.
(Ord. 23, § 4.10.10, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.371 COMPLAINTS OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have occurred,
any person may file a written complaint. The complaint, stating fully the
causes and basis of the complaint, shall be filed with the Building
Administrator. The Building Administrator shall then record properly this
complaint, investigate promptly, and take action thereon as provided by §
156.999 of this code.
(Ord. 23, § 4.10.20, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.372 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   No building, structure, certain signs, or use of land may hereinafter
be erected or located on platted or unplatted land unless the structure,
improvement, or use in this location conforms to the building codes adopted by
the town and all the ordinances of the town, and a building permit has been
issued for each structure, improvement, or use. In addition, no lot shall be
elevated by filling or lowered by removal of soil unless a permit has been
obtained.
   (B)   All fees for building permits and other zoning matters shall be
established by separate ordinance enacted by the Town Council.
   (C)   Before a permit is issued for the erection, moving, alteration,
enlargement, or occupancy of any building or structure or use of premises, the
plans and intended use shall indicate conformity in all respects to the zoning
provisions of this chapter. The permit shall not be issued until after review
by the Building Administrator and finding by the Building Administrator that:
      (1)   There is adequate frontage on an improved street maintained by the
authorized agency of the town;
      (2)   State and county health requirements are met;
      (3)   There is adequate means present to handle satisfactorily stormwater
runoff from proposed improvements; and
      (4)   There will be no interference with the town’s Comprehensive Plan
regarding street and public facilities.
   (D)   Any permit issued in accordance with this chapter shall be valid for a
period of one year from the date of issuance. The permit shall be revoked and
be rendered null and void if construction is not commenced within six months of
issuance. Any structure or building not completed within one year from issuance
of that permit shall necessitate a renewal of the permit by action of the
Commission staff.
   (E)   Every application for a building or zoning permit submitted to the
Building Administrator shall be accompanied by a site plan, required under §
151.32, drawn to scale, showing the lot and the building site and the location
of existing buildings on the lot, accurate dimensions of the lot, yards, and
buildings, together with the locations, size, and use of any land and all
buildings not on the lot but within 50 feet from the boundaries thereof, unless
separated therefrom by a street, together with other information, including
elevations, as found in §
151.32(D), as may be necessary to the enforcement of this chapter and the
building codes of the town. In addition to the site plan, the Building
Administrator shall require a Spot Footing Survey (Pre-Pour Walls), a written
document, signed and sealed by a registered Indiana land surveyor, certifying
the top of footing elevations, a Spot Foundation Survey (Post-Pour) and a Final
As-Built Survey, prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy, which shall
include elevations of the top of footings, foundation, and final grading.
   (F)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of health,
safety, morals, convenience, and the general welfare. The lot or yard areas
required by this chapter shall not be diminished and shall not be included as
part of the required lot or yard areas of any other building. The lot or yard
areas of buildings existing at the time this chapter became effective shall not
be diminished below the requirements herein provided for buildings hereafter
erected, and those required areas shall not be included as a part of the
required areas of any building hereafter erected.
   (G)   Nothing in this chapter shall require any change in the plans,
construction, or intended use of a building, the construction of which shall
have been diligently prosecuted within six months preceding the date of this
ordinance, and that entire building shall be completed within two years from
the date of this ordinance becoming effective. Nothing herein shall prevent the
reconstruction of a wall or other structural part of a building declared unsafe
by the State Fire Marshal or the Administrative Building Council of the state.
(Ord. 23, § 4.10.30, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 115, passed 4-1-2004; Am. Ord.
234, passed 5-13-2014) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.373 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   A certificate of occupancy to be issued by the Building Administrator,
or his or her authorized agent, shall be required prior to occupying any new
structure, except buildings incidental to agricultural operations other than
residences, in accordance with
Chapter 151 of this code and the provisions of this chapter, and in the
following instances. None of the following occupancies, uses, or changes of
use, shall take place until a certificate of occupancy therefor shall have been
issued:
      (1)   Occupancy and use of a building hereafter erected or enlarged;
      (2)   Change in use of an existing building;
      (3)   Occupancy and use of vacant land, except for the raising of crops;
      (4)   Change in the use of land to a use of a different classification,
except for the raising of crops; or
      (5)   Any change in the use of a nonconforming use.
   (B)   Written application for a certificate of occupancy for a new building
or for an existing building which has been enlarged shall be made at the same
time as the application for the building and zoning permit for that building.
For all other certificates, or for copies of any original certificate, there
shall be a charge of $1 each. The certificate shall be acted upon within five
business days after a written request for the same has been made to the
Building Administrator after the erection or enlargement of the building or
part thereof has been completed in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter and the building codes of the town.
   (C)   Pending the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, a temporary
certificate of occupancy may be issued by the Building Administrator for a
period of not more than six months during the completion of the construction of
the building or of alterations which are required under the terms of any law or
ordinance. The temporary certificate may be renewed, but it shall not be
construed in any way to alter the respective rights, duties, or obligations of
the owner or of the town relating to the use or occupancy of the land or
building, or any other matter covered by this chapter and
Chapter 151 of this code. The temporary certificate shall not be issued except
under restrictions and provisions as will adequately ensure the safety of the
occupants.
   (D)   (1)   Written application for a certificate of occupancy for use of
vacant land, or for a change in the use of land or of a building, or for a
change in a nonconforming use, as herein provided shall be made to the Building
Administrator.
      (2)   If the proposed use is in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter and
Chapter 151, the certificate of occupancy therefor shall be issued within three
working days after the application for the same has been made.
      (3)   Each certificate of occupancy shall state that the building or
proposed use of a building or land complies with the provisions of this chapter
and all building regulations and provisions of
Chapter 151.
      (4)   A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file in
the office of the Building Administrator and a copy shall be forwarded, on
request, to any person having proprietary or tenancy interest in the building
or land affected.
      (5)   No permit for erection of any building shall be issued before
application has been made for a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 23, § 4.10.40, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 45, passed 4-15-1998)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.374 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   All departments, officials, and public employees of the town which are
vested with the duty or authority to issue or license shall conform to the
provisions of this chapter and shall issue no permit or license for any use,
building, or purpose if same would be in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any permit or license issued in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter shall be null and void.
(Ord. 23, § 4.10.50, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
§ 156.375 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Power of amendment. The Town Council may, from time to time, amend,
supplement, change, modify, or repeal this zoning chapter, including the Zoning
Map.
   (B)   Initiation of amendment. A zoning chapter text amendment may be
initiated by the Town Council or the Plan Commission. An amendment to change
the Zoning Map may be initiated by the Town Council, Plan Commission, or by a
petition signed by property owners who own at least 50% of the land under
petition.
   (C)   Form of application.
      (1)   Any request for a Zoning Map change shall be in compliance with
I.C. 36-7-4-600 et seq., as may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   A petition for a Zoning Map change shall be submitted in writing in
the manner prescribed by the Plan Commission in its rules of procedure.
      (3)   Any proposal for an amendment to the text of the zoning chapter
shall be in compliance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-600 et seq., as may
be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Deliberations. The Plan Commission and Town Council shall study
proposals for text and Zoning Map changes to determine:
      (1)   The general conformity and consistency with the various elements of
the Comprehensive Plan;
      (2)   Current conditions and the character of current structures and uses
in each district;
      (3)   The most desirable use for which the land in each district is
adapted;
      (4)   The conservation of property values throughout the jurisdiction;
and
      (5)   Responsible development and growth.
   (E)   Public hearing and Commission action.
      (1)   Before acting on any proposed amendment, the Commission shall hold
a public hearing, as required by I.C. 36-7-4-600 et seq., as amended from time
to time. The rules of procedure of the Plan Commission shall govern the
petition process, public hearing, and meeting.
      (2)   Any action of the Commission relative to amendments shall be
advisory only. Action by a full majority of the Commission membership shall be
necessary for a recommendation.
   (F)   Action by Town Council on text amendment or Zoning Map amendment. The
Town Council shall be guided by the advice of its Plan Commission when
considering a text or map amendment. It shall not, however, be bound to
recommendations of the Plan Commission.
   (G)   Questionable zoning districts. If any property is judicially
determined or otherwise determined to be without zoning, or exists without a
clearly designated zoning district classification, then in that case, the
property shall be zoned AG agricultural.
(Ord. 23, §§ 4.30.10 - 4.30.70, passed 3-19-1997)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   In the event construction or excavation is commenced or continued in
violation of this chapter (except for signs, which are controlled by §
156.085 herein), the Building Administrator shall issue a citation to the
responsible parties involved, and a fine equal to two times the building permit
fee shall be assessed against the responsible parties for commencing work in
violation of this chapter, which fine shall be payable at the Town Clerk-
Treasurer’s office and deposited in the town’s General Fund. Upon payment of
the citation fine, if the responsible parties are in compliance in all other
respects with this chapter, work may be recommenced as ordered by the Building
Administrator.
   (B)   Any person or corporation, whether as principal, agent, employee, or
otherwise, who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, upon conviction,
shall be fined for each offense, with that fine to inure to the town. Each day
of the existence of any violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   The erection, construction, enlargement, conversion, moving, or
maintenance of any building or structure, and use of any land or building which
is continued, operated, or maintained contrary to any of the provisions of this
chapter is hereby declared to be a violation of this chapter and unlawful. The
Town Attorney shall, immediately upon any of this type of violation having been
called to his or her attention, institute an injunction, abatement, or any
other appropriate action to prevent, enjoin, abate, or remove that violation.
This type of action may also be instituted by any property owner who may be
especially damaged by any violation of this chapter.
   (D)   The remedies provided for herein shall be cumulative and not exclusive
and shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
(Ord. 23, § 4.10.60, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 45, passed 4-15-1998)
APPENDIX A: DISTRICT USE TABLE
Use Zoning District
    AG AG-B R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 MF C-1 C-2 C-3 M-1
Use                                Zoning District
                                   AG AG-B R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 MF C-1 C-2 C-3 M-1
Adult entertainment                                             S
Agricultural business products       P                            
Antique shop                                           P   P   P    
Apartments                                           P            
Art galleries                                          P   P   P    
Art/school supply                                      P   P   P    
Auto repair, major                                           S   P
Auto/RV sales                                                S   P
Automobile service station                                   P    
Bakeries                                                  S   P    
Banks/credit unions                                    S   P   P    
Barber shop                                            P   P   P    
Beauty shop/salon                                      P   P   P    
Bed and breakfast                    S                            
Bicycle sales/repair                                      P   P    
Book/stationery store                                     P   P    
Bulk chemical storage                                            
Bulk fuel storage                                                
Business park/campus                                         P   P
Business retail complex                                      P    
Cabinetry                                                 P   P   S
Camera/photo supply store                                 P   P    
Candy/ice cream (drive thru)                                 P    
Candy/ice cream (no drive thru)                        P   P   P    
Car wash                                                     P    
Ceramics                                                        S
Churches                           S  S    S   S   S   S   S            
Cleaner, laundromat                                          P    
Coin shop                                                 P   P    
Commercial bakery                                               S
Commercial lodging                                           P    
Commercial printing                                             S
Commercial stable                    S                            
Computer/cell phone sales, service                        P   P    
Convenience mart                                          P   P    
Crops, livestock                   P                              
Dance studio                                              P   P    
Distribution facility                                        S   P
Dress shop/tailor                                         P   P    
Drug store                                                   P    
Earth removal/excavating                                        S
Employment agencies                                       P   P    
Farm implement                       P                            
Feed stores                          P                            
                                                                           
Final disposal facility                                          
                                                                           
Flea markets                                                    S
Funeral home                                                 P    
Gasoline service station                                     P    
Golf course                        S  S    S   S   S   S   S            
Government buildings                                   S   S   S    
Hardware store                                               P    
Hazardous waste facility                                         
Hobby farm                         P                              
Hobby shop (retail)                                       P   P    
Home occupation                    P      P   P   P   P               
Hookah lounge/bar                                            S    
Hospital/sanitarium                                          P    
Junk yard                                                        
Kennel, boarding                     S                            
Licensed day care facility                             S   P   P    
Liquor store, carry-out                                      P    
Locksmith                                                 P   P    
Lumber yards/home centers                                    S   P
Manufactured home                  P      P   P   P                  
Medical clinic                                            P   P    
Mobile home                                          S            
Mobile home park                                     S            
Municipal buildings                         S   S   S   S            
Newspaper offices                                         P   P    
Nursing home                                   S   S   S            
Office buildings                                          P   P    
Open dump                                                        
Package/mailing services                                  P   P    
Parking lot, public                                          P    
Parks                                    P   P   P   P               
Pawn shops                                                   S    
Pet shop/grooming                                         P   P    
Photography studio                                        P   P    
Picture framing shops                                     P   P    
Pig/hog farms                                                    
Plant nursery                      Pa P                     S   P    
Plastic injection molding                                       S
Police and fire stations                    S   S   S   S            
Private gym/fitness center                                P   P    
Private stable                     P                              
Produce sales                      Pa P                            
Professional offices                                      P   P    
Public library                              S   S   S   S            
Public parks                       P  P    P   P   P   P   P            
Recreation, commercial                                          S
Research and development                                        P
Restaurant (no drive thru)                                P   P    
Restaurant (bar)                                             P    
Restaurant, fast food/                                       P    
drive thru
Retail establishment                                      P   P    
Retail establishment, big box                                P    
Retail gun sales                                             S   S
RV park                                                          
Schools                                     S   S   S   S            
Scrap yard                                                       
Sewage treatment                                                S
Shoe sales and repair                                     P   P    
Single-family DUb                  P      P   P   P                  
Social clubs, private                                        S    
Solar energy generating system     P  P    P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P
Spa—Full service                                        P   P    
Storage facility/warehouse                                   S   P
Tattoo/body piercing shop                                        
Tavern                                                           
Testing laboratories                                            P
Theatres                                                     P    
Three-family DUb                                  P               
Transfer station                                                 
Travel agency                                             P   P    
Truck terminal                                                  S
Two-family DUb                                    P               
Vehicle recovery/                                               P
towing/impound
Veterinarian, small                                       P   P    
Veterinarian, large                  S                            
Video stores                                              P   P    
Watch repair                                              P   P    
Water facility/treatment                                        P
Wind energy conversion system/NC   P  P    P   P   P   P   P  P   P   P   P
Wind energy conversion system/com    S                           P
Wind/solar manufacturing                                        P
Winery                               S                            
                                                                
Any use not specifically mentioned                               
in zoning area
 
Key:
Empty space: excluded use
C: Conditional use
P: Permitted use
S: Special exception
Notes:
a Product for sale is produced on site
b DU: dwelling unit
 
(Ord. 23, Table A, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 111, passed 7-15-2004; Am. Ord.
210, passed 9-11-2012; Am. Ord. 234, passed 5-13-2014; Am. Ord. 299, passed 8-
27-2019; Am. Ord. 352, passed 4-25-2023) Penalty, see §
156.999
APPENDIX B: DESIGN REQUIREMENTS TABLE
     Design Requirements for Zoning Districts; Minimum Standards
Item AG AG- R-1    R-1   R-2    R-2   R-3   R-4   MF    C-1   C-2   C-3   M-1
        B
            Septic Sewer Septic Sewer Sewer Sewer Sewer Sewer Sewer Sewer Sewer
         Design Requirements for Zoning Districts; Minimum Standards
Item     AG    AG-B  R-1    R-1    R-2    R-2    R-3    R-4    MF      C-1   C-2   C-3   M-1
                     Septic Sewer  Septic Sewer  Sewer  Sewer  Sewer   Sewer Sewer Sewer Sewer
Minimum  5     5     1      20,000 1      15,000 12,000 10,500 7,000                     1
lot size acres acres acrea  sq.    acrea  sq.    sq.    sq.    sq.     N/A   N/A   N/A   acre
                            ft.           ft.    ft.    ft.b   ft.d
Maximum
lot      30%   30%   30%    30%    30%    35%    40%    40%    35%     80%c  80%c  80%c  75%c
coverage
Dwelling
unit
minimum  750   1,200 2,100  2,100  1,800  1,800  1,500e 1,200b See §  N/A   N/A   N/A   N/A
size                                                           156.233
(sq.
ft.)
Minimum
lot      250   250   150    100    150    100    75     75     150     200   200   200   250
street
frontage
Maximum
building 35    35    35     35     35     35     35     35     35      35    35    35    35
height
Front
yard     60    60    40     40     40     40     35     35     60      50    50    50    80
setback
(ft.)
Rear
yard     50    50    40     40     40     40     40     40     40      40    40    40    40
setback
(ft.)
Side
yard     20    25    15     15     15     15     12     12     25      16    16    16    40
setback
(ft.)
Notes:
   a With approval of County Board of Health
   b Per dwelling unit
   c Includes parking area
   d Lot area per dwelling unit, in sq. ft.
 
(Ord. 23, Table B, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 139, passed 12-20-2005; Am. Ord.
157, passed 5-29-2007; Am. Ord. 139-A, passed 5-28-2013; Am. Ord. 284, passed
3-13-2018; Am. Ord. 284-A, passed 12-8-2020)
APPENDIX C: SCHEDULE OF PARKING FACILITIES
Use Required Parking Spaces
Use            Required Parking Spaces
Adult          One space per 200 sq. ft. gross floor area
entertainment
Bank,          One space per 100 sq. ft. of floor area devoted to general banking
financial      services (excluding vaults) for public use, plus one space per 250 sq.
institution    ft. devoted to office use; plus stacking space for six cars per drive-up
               window, and a bypass lane
               Six spaces per 1,000 sq. ft. of showroom gross floor area, plus one
Car lot        space per employee, plus one space per service bay. These spaces shall
               be used exclusively for employees and customers and shall not be used
               for sales or service
Car wash, full One drying space plus two stacking spaces per washing space,a plus one
serve          parking space per employee on maximum work shift
Car wash, self Four stacking spaces plus two drying spaces per washing stalla
serve
Church         Two space per four seats in principal place of worshipb
Commercial     One space per two stalls
stable
Day care       One space per ten persons, based upon the center’s regulated capacity,
center         designed for safe loading and unloading of persons; with four spaces
               minimum, plus one space per employee on maximum staff level shift
Dry cleaner    One space per 30 sq. ft. gross floor area
Fire or police One space per employee plus one space per three volunteer personnel on a
station        normal shift. If a business office is included, one space per 200 sq.
               ft. of that office space is also required
Gas station,   One space per fuel pump, plus two spaces per grease rack or similar
full service   facility, plus one space per one and one-half employees. No work station
               used for repair of vehicles shall be credited toward this requirement
Gas station,   One and one-half spaces per fuel nozzle, plus one space per 50 sq. ft.
self service   of useable floor area in the cashier’s office and sales area
Golf course    Six spaces per hole, plus one space per employee on largest shift, plus
               50% of spaces otherwise required for accessory uses
Group home     One space per two group home residents, plus one space per employee on
               shift of maximum employment
Hobby farm     Follow residential guidelines
Laundromat     One space per two washing machines
Liquor store   One space per 400 sq. ft. gross floor area
Manufacturing, One space per 500 sq. ft. gross floor area
light
Mini-mart      Five spaces per 1,000 sq. ft. gross floor area
Municipal      One space per 200 sq. ft. gross floor area
building
Nursery or     One space per 1,000 sq. ft. floor area, plus one space per 5,000 sq. ft.
greenhouse     outside retail area
Post office    One space per 400 sq. ft. gross floor area, plus one space per employee
               on shift of maximum employment
Professional   Three spaces per treatment room or dental chair (whichever is greater),
office,        plus one space for each doctor, dentist, or staff person
medical
Professional   One space per 300 sq. ft. gross floor area
office, other
Recreational   One and one-half spaces per recreational vehicle site
vehicle park
Residential,   Two spaces per dwelling unit plus 10%
multi-family
Residential,   Two spaces per dwelling unitc
single-family
Residential,   Two spaces per dwelling unitc
three-family
Residential,   Two spaces per dwelling unitc
two-family
Restaurant,    One space per 150 sq. ft. gross floor area or one space per two persons
dining         allowed in the maximum occupancy load, whichever is greater
               Thirteen spaces per 1,000 sq. ft. gross floor area, plus six off-street
Restaurant,    stacking spaces per drive-in window, designed so as not to impede
fast food      pedestrian or vehicular circulation on the site or on any abutting
               street; plus one bypass lane
Retail sales,  One space per 200 sq. ft. gross floor area
other
Veterinarian   Four spaces per doctor, plus one space per additional employee
Notes:
   a A washing stall or space is not a parking space.
   b See § 156.057(B)
   c No permanent on street parking will be allowed. Residents must have ability to
store cars off of the public right-of-way exclusive of garages.
 
(Ord. 23, § 2.40.10, passed 3-19-1997)
Penalty, see § 156.999
APPENDIX D: PERMITTED SIGNS
Sign Type Permitted and Excluded Signs for Zoning Districts
          AG AG-B R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 MF C-1 C-2 C-3 M-1
Sign Type       Permitted and Excluded Signs for Zoning Districts
                AG AG-B R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 MF C-1 C-2 C-3 M-1
Banner          N  N    N                  N  N   N   N   N
Beacons         N  N    N                  N  N   N   N   N
Building marker A  A    A                  A  A   A   A   A
Canopy          N  N    N                  N  P   P   P   P
Flag            A  A    A                  A  A   A   A   A
Freestanding    A  A    A                  P  P   P   P   P
Mansard         N  N    N                  N  P   P   P   P
Marquee         N  N    N                  N  P   P   P   P
Monument        P  P    N                  Pb P   P   P   P
Nameplate       A  A    A                  A  A   A   A   A
Off-premises    N  N    N                  N  N   N   N   N
Portable        N  N    N                  N  N   N   N   N
Projecting      N  N    N                  N  N   N   N   N
Roof            N  N    N                  N  N   N   N   N
Suspended       N  N    N                  N  N   N   N   N
Temporary       A  A    A                  A  A   A   A   A
Wall            N  N    N                  N  P   P   P   P
Window          N  N    N                  N  Aa  Aa  Aa  Aa
Key:
A:   Allowed without permit
P:   Permit required
N:   Not allowed
Note:
a If less than 30% of window coverage
b Only applies in the situation listed in § 156.097(D)(2)
 
(Ord. 23, Table 1, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 210-A, passed 12-10-2105)
Penalty, see §
156.999
APPENDIX E: SIGN DIMENSIONS AND NUMBER ALLOWED BY ZONING DISTRICT
Sign Type Standards Sign Dimensions and Number Allowed, by Zoning District
                    FP AG AG-B R (All) MF C-1 C-2 C-3 M-1
                                Sign Dimensions and Number Allowed, by Zoning
Sign Type       Standards       District
                                FP AG AG-B R (All) MF C-1 C-2 C-3  M-1
Banner          Dimensions, sq. N  N  N    N       N  N   N   N    N
                ft.
               Number allowed  0  0  0    0       0  0   0   0    0
Building marker Dimensions, sq. N  6  6    6       6  6   6   6    6
                ft.
               Number allowed  0  1  1    1       1  1   1   1    1
Canopy          Dimensions, sq. N  N  N    N       N  64a 64a 64a  64a
                ft.
               Number allowed  0  0  0    0       0  1   1   1    1
Flag            Height in ft.   N  40 40   40      40 40  40  40   40
               Number allowed  0  1  1    1       1  1   1   1    1
Freestanding    Dimensions, sq. N  N  N    N       N  64a 64a 64a  64a
                ft.
               Number allowed  0  1  1    1       0  1   1   1    1
Marquee         Dimensions, sq. N  N  N    N       N  64a 64a 64a  64a
                ft.
               Number allowed  0  0  0    0       0  1   1   1    1
Monument sign   Dimensions, sq. N  24 24   N       24 64a 64a 64a  64a
                ft.
               Number allowed  0  0  0    0       0  1   1   1    1
Nameplate       Dimensions, sq. N  2  2    2       2b 2   2   2    2
                ft.
               Number allowed  0  1  1    1       1  1   1   1    1
Off- premises   Dimensions, sq. N  N  N    N       N  N   N   N    N
                ft.
               Number allowed  0  0  0    0       0  0   0   0    0
Portable        Dimensions, sq. N  N  N    N       N  N   N   N    N
                ft.
               Number allowed  0  0  0    0       0  0   0   0    0
Projecting      Dimensions, sq. N  N  N    N       N  N   N   N    N
                ft.
               Number allowed  0  0  0    0       0  0   0   0    0
Roof            Dimensions, sq. N  N  N    N       N  N   N   N    N
                ft.
               Number allowed  0  0  0    0       0  0   0   0    0
Suspended       Dimensions, sq. N  N  N    N       N  N   N   N    N
                ft.
               Number allowed  0  0  0    0       0  0   0   0    0
Temporary       Dimensions, sq. N  X  X    X       X  X   X   X    X
                ft.
               Number allowed  0  X  X    X       X  X   X   X    X
Wall            Dimensions, sq. N  N  N    N       N  64a 64a 64a  64a
                ft.
               Number allowed  0  0  0    0       0  1   1   1    1
Window          Window area %   N  N  N    N       N  30% 30% 30 % 30 %
               Number allowed  0  0  0    0       0  1   1   1    1
Key:
N:   Not allowed
X:    Temporary sign standards as discussed in § 156.097
Notes:
a The maximum total area of all signs on a zone lot, except for incidental,
marker, nameplate signs, and flags, shall not exceed this area.
b MF district nameplate sign regulations are discussed in §
156.097(D).
 
(Ord. 23, Table 2, passed 3-19-1997; Am. Ord. 210-A, passed 12-10-2015)
Penalty, see §
156.999
CHAPTER 157: COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
Section
General
   
157.001   Scope of application
   
157.002   Definitions
   
157.003   Existing communications facilities
Special Exception
   
157.015   Special exception required
   
157.016   Location of communications facilities
   
157.017   Application
   
157.018   Criteria for approval of special exception
Regulations
   
157.035   General requirements
   
157.036   Lighting
   
157.037   Signs and advertising
   
157.038   Abandoned or unused towers or portions of towers
   
157.039   U.B.C and E.I.A
   
157.040   Radiofrequency emissions (RF)
   
157.041   Tower color
   
157.042   Communications facility report
   
157.043   Visual impact statement
   
157.044   Bond
Permits
   
157.060   Permits
   
157.061   Improvement location permit
   
157.062   Permit and license fees
   
157.063   Stop orders
   
157.064   Inspections
Design Standards
   
157.080   Design standards
   
157.081   Accommodation of multiple users
   
157.082   Tower and antenna design requirements
Violations and Remedies
   
157.095   Notice of violation
   
157.096   Right of injunction
   
157.097   Right of entry
   
157.098   Appeals
 
   
157.999   Penalty
GENERAL
§ 157.001 SCOPE OF APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to the construction, placement and modification of
all communication facilities, as hereinafter defined, within the Town of
Winfield, Lake County, Indiana. No such communication facility shall be
constructed, erected, placed, modified or altered within the town unless a
special exception and a building permit has first been obtained as required in
this subchapter, and such communication facility otherwise complies with the
terms and provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 157.002 DEFINITIONS.
   ANTENNA. A device used in communications which transmits or received radio
or television signals, or any other spectrum-based transmissions/receptions,
but expressly excluding an antenna for the receipt of television signals which
does not exceed 35 feet in height, inclusive of the height of the building or
structure to which it is attached. ANTENNA types include, but are not limited
to, omni-directional whip ANTENNA, directional panel ANTENNA and ancillary
ANTENNA.
   ARTERIAL STREET. A street of considerable continuity which carries a large
volume of traffic from one section of town to another. This does not include
any streets within a residential development or the principal circulating
streets within such a development. In addition, this does not include any
streets used primarily for access to abutting properties, usually residential.
Lastly, an ARTERIAL STREET cannot be a private street.
   CO-LOCATION. A single site where commercial wireless communications service
equipment from more than one provider are located.
   COMMERCIAL WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. FCC licensed commercial wireless
communications services that are marketed to the general public, including
cellular telephone, personal communications services (PCS), enhanced
specialized mobilized radio (ESMR), paging and similar servicing.
   COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. A land use facility, including without limitation:
      (1)   COMMUNICATIONS TOWER. Any structure that is designed and
constructed primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennae. The
term includes RADIO AND TELEVISION TRANSMISSION TOWERS, MICROWAVE TOWERS,
CELLULAR TELEPHONE and COMMERCIAL WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE TOWERS,
ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURES, and the like. Tower types include, but are not
limited to, GUYED TOWERS, WOODEN POLES, LATTICE TOWERS and MONOPOLES.
      (2)   DESIGNED FAIL AREA. The area surrounding a communications tower in
which the tower could fall, should it fail as structurally designed. The
DESIGNED FAIL AREA is quantified in terms of linear distance from the base of
the communications tower to the perimeter of the DESIGNED FAIL AREA. The
DESIGNED FAIL AREA shall be certified by an Indiana licensed structural
engineer.
      (3)   GUYED TOWERS. A communications tower anchored by cables or wire
typically ranging in height from 100 to 400 feet, which can accommodate a
variety of users and antennae.
      (4)   LATTICE TOWERS. A free-standing communications tower typically
ranging in height from 60 to 400 feet which can accommodate a variety of users.
These towers generally have three or four support steel legs and hold a variety
of antennae.
      (5)   MONOPOLE TOWERS. A free-standing communications tower typically
ranging in height from 25 to 200 feet, which can accommodate multiple users.
These towers consist of a single pole, approximately three feet in diameter to
the base and narrowing to roughly one and one-half feet at the top and hold a
variety of antennae.
   TOWER HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the ground level to the highest
point of a communications tower, or attached antenna or similar device,
including attached communications facilities.
   TOWER SETBACK. The horizontal distance from the base of a communications
tower to an abutting property line and/or proposed right-of-way.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 157.003 EXISTING COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   Communications facilities in existence on the date of adoption of this
ordinance which do not conform or comply with this chapter are subject to the
following:
   (A)   Legal nonconforming communications facility. Any communications
facility located within the town limits on the date of adoption of this chapter
which does not conform to the provisions of this chapter is eligible for
characterization as a legal nonconforming communications facility and is
permitted, provided it also meets the following requirements:
      (1)   The communications facility was covered by a building permit or
variance on the date of adoption of this chapter, if one was required by
applicable law; or
      (2)   If no building permit was required under applicable law for the
communications facility in question, the communications facility had legal
nonconforming status at such time.
   (B)   Unlawful communications facility. Any nonconforming communications
facility which does not fit the definition of a legal nonconforming
communications facility is an unlawful communications facility.
   (C)   Loss of legal nonconforming status.
      (1)   In addition to the criteria set forth under this chapter, the legal
nonconforming communications facility shall immediately lose its legal
nonconforming status if:
         (a)   The communications facility, because of improper installation or
maintenance, constitutes a threat to public health or safety and remains in
such condition after a reasonable time is given to remedy the problem;
         (b)   The communications facility is demolished or damaged to the
extent of 50% or more of its value.
         (c)   The permit, variance, or condition under which the
communications facility was allowed expires; or
         (d)   The communications facility is substantially structurally
altered so as to prolong its expected life.
      (2)   On the happening of any one of the above-listed events, the
communications facility shall be immediately brought into conformance with this
chapter or shall be removed.
   (D)   Safety, maintenance and repair. Nothing in this chapter shall relieve
the owner or user of a legal nonconforming communications facility or owner of
the property on which the legal nonconforming communications facility is
located from any provisions regarding safety, maintenance and repair of the
communications facility.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
SPECIAL EXCEPTION
§ 157.015 SPECIAL EXCEPTION REQUIRED.
   No communications facility may be located in any zoning district in the town
unless a special exception has been granted in accordance with the provisions
of
Chapter 156, and in accordance with this chapter and the code of ordinances of
the Town of Winfield. In addition, any application for a special exception of a
communications facility shall be subject to the requirements listed in §§
157.016 through
157.018.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 157.016 LOCATION OF COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
   (A)   A communications facility may be located only in the following zoning
districts:
      (1)   AG-BAgriculture Business;
      (2)   C-1Neighborhood Commercial;
      (3)   C-2Office Commercial;
      (4)   C-3General Commercial;
      (5)   M-1Light Manufacturing.
   (B)   Under no circumstances shall a communications facility be allowed
within the boundaries of a recorded residential subdivision.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 157.017 APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a special exception for a communications facility
may be made by the property owner, the owner of the communications facility or
a duly authorized agent of the property owner or the owner of the
communications facility. All applications shall be initially filed with the
Town Building Inspector.
   (B)   Each application shall include the following information and/or
materials:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of applicant.
      (2)   Name, address and telephone number of the property owner or owner
of the communications facility as applicable, if not the applicant.
      (3)   Name(s), address(es), and telephone number(s) of the intended
lessee(s) or user(s) of the communications facility, if different from the
owner of the communications facility.
      (4)   Name, address and telephone number of the contractor who will
erect, alter, construct or relocate the communications facility, if not the
applicant.
      (5)   A report from an Indiana Licensed Professional Engineer, which:
         (a)   Describes the height of the communications facility or tower
height and the structural design of the communications facility and all footing
or anchors. Cross-sections and elevations or communications facilities shall be
shown on a scaled drawing;
         (b)   Describes the height above grade for all potential mounting
positions for co-located antennae and the minimum separation distances between
antennae;
         (c)   Describes the communications facility's capacity, including the
number and type of antennae that it can accommodate and their effective range;
         (d)   Includes a copy of the stress sheets and calculations showing
the structure's deadload and wind pressure capacities;
         (e)   Includes a detailed site plan of the parcel or lot, showing the
communications tower and/or communications facility in relation to existing
building(s) or structures, easements, rights-of-way and applicable setback
lines. Detailed site plans should include adjoining parcels and lots, if
located within a distance equal to 120% of the tower height; and
         (f)   Includes a description of any right-of-way cuts and/or utility
service to be installed.
      (6)   Written consent or other proof of authorization of the owner of the
building, structure, or land to which or on which the communications facility
is to be erected.
      (7)   Written documentation or other proof that the communications
facility will be in service within one month of completion of construction.
      (8)   Copies of any necessary easements.
      (9)   A written commitment by the applicant to notify the town not less
than 60 days prior to any changes in ownership of the communications facility
or ownership of the property in question.
      (10)   Written proof of adequate liability insurance covering the
communications facility owner and operator, together with a written commitment
to file proof of such adequate liability insurance with the town on an annual
basis. In addition, applicant shall execute a Hold Harmless Agreement with the
town holding the town harmless for any action arising out of the construction,
maintenance and operation of the communications facility, including all costs
and attorney fees of any action.
      (11)   For all communications towers for commercial wireless
communications service, a letter of intent committing the communications tower
owner and his or her successors to allow the shared use of the tower, if an
additional user agrees in writing to meet reasonable terms and conditions for
shared use.
      (12)   A plan delineating any existing and proposed and/or anticipated
communications facilities withing the town, for the purpose of promoting long-
range planning to minimize the number of communications facilities and their
potential adverse impacts on unincorporated Lake County.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 157.018 CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL OF SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
   (A)   In addition to any criteria set forth in
Chapter 156, this chapter and the code of ordinances of the Town of Winfield,
the Board of Zoning Appeals may not grant approval of a special exception for a
communications facility unless the following criteria listed in subdivisions
(B) through (F) have been satisfied.
   (B)   No new communications tower for a commercial wireless communications
service may be approved unless the Board of Zoning Appeals finds that the
telecommunications equipment planned for the proposed communications tower
cannot be accommodated on an existing or approved communications tower or
building within a two-mile search radius of the proposed communications tower
due to one or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of the
existing or approved communications tower or building, as documented by a
qualified and licensed professional engineer within the State of Indiana, and
the existing or approved communications tower cannot be reinforced, modified or
replaced to accommodate planned or equivalent equipment at a reasonable cost.
      (2)   The planned equipment would cause interference, materially
impacting the usability of other existing or planned equipment at the
communications tower or building, as documented by a qualified and licensed
professional engineer in the State of Indiana, and the interference cannot be
prevented at a reasonable cost.
      (3)   Existing or approved communications towers and buildings within the
search radius cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary to
function reasonably s documented by a qualified and licensed professional
engineer within the State of Indiana.
      (4)   Other unforseen reasons that make it unfeasible to locate the
planned telecommunications equipment upon an existing or approved
communications tower or building.
      (5)   That the communications facility constitutes a desirable and stable
development in harmony with the development in adjacent areas and is not
contrary to the spirit and purpose of this subchapter.
   (C)   The applicant has submitted all required application materials set
forth in §
157.017, including without limitation the plan of existing and proposed
communications facilities and the written commitment to notify the town of
changes in ownership of the communications facility and/or land.
   (D)   The proposed communications facility meets the design criteria
specified in §§
157.035 through
157.044 and §
157.060.
   (E)   The applicant has furnished evidence of appropriate licensure and
approval by the Federal Communications Commissions (FCC) for the construction
and operation of the communications facility, and communications tower approval
by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), as applicable.
   (F)   And as a condition of the grant of the special exception, the
applicant shall be required to send written notice, by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to all commercial wireless communications service providers
then licensed by the FCC to provide service within the town of the availability
of the applicant's communications facility for co-location for future equipment
or services. The applicant shall furnish proof of such notification prior to
issuance of an improvement location permit, in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
REGULATIONS
§ 157.035 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All communications facilities shall comply with §§
157.036 through
157.044 and
157.060 as shown by the submittal of necessary documentation and/or inclusion
on a site pan or the making of written promises. No building permit shall be
issued until complete compliance is demonstrated.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 157.036 LIGHTING.
   Towers shall not be illuminated by artificial means and shall not display
strobe lights unless such is specifically required by the Federal Aviation
Administration or other federal or state authority for a particular tower. When
incorporated into the approved design of the tower, light fixtures used to
illuminate ball fields, parking lots, or similar areas may be attached to the
tower. Security lighting around the base of a tower may be allowed if the
lighting is shielded so that no light is directed towards adjacent properties
or rights of way.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002; Am. Ord. 101A, passed 8-18-2008)
§ 157.037 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING.
   The use of any portion of a communications facility for signs other than
warning or equipment information signs is prohibited.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 157.038 ABANDONED OR UNUSED TOWERS OR PORTIONS OF TOWERS.
   Abandoned or unused communications facilities shall be removed within 120
days from the date of ceasing operations. A copy of the notice to the Federal
Communications Commission of intent to cease operations of subject facility
shall be submitted to the town. If the lot or parcel for the facility is
leased, a copy of the relevant portions of a signed lease relevant to
abandonment of the communications facility shall be provided to the town.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 157.039 U.B.C. AND E.I.A.
   Applicable standards and wind loading requirements of the Uniform Building
Code and the Electronic Industry Association.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 157.040 RADIOFREQUENCY EMISSIONS (RF).
   Documentation that the proposed communications facility will comply with the
latest health and safety standards established by the Federal Communications
Commission on RF emissions and exposures.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 157.041 TOWER COLOR.
   The color of the proposed tower will be of a galvanized finish (except as
required by FAA).
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002; Am. Ord. 101A, passed 8-18-2009)
§ 157.042 COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY REPORT.
   A report shall be submitted to the town describing the type of proposed
communications facility, its effective range, and the technical reasons for its
design and placement. If the proposed communications facility cannot be
accommodated on an existing or approved facility within a one-mile search
radius of the proposed site, the report shall specify the reasons and
conditions along with the supporting proof. And in an effort to promote long-
range planning to minimize the number of towers and their impact on the
community, providers of commercial wireless communications service shall
include a plan delineating existing and any proposed and/or anticipated
facilities within Lake County.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 157.043 VISUAL IMPACT STATEMENT.
   A statement and visual material (such as a plan, pictures and the like)
indicating where within a one-mile search radius any portion of the proposed
facility can be seen from ground level.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 157.044 BOND.
   All applicants will furnish a surety bond or make an equivalent cash deposit
in an amount to be determined by the Building Commissioner to be necessary to
remove an abandoned facility in the event the persons responsible for such
removal default.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
PERMITS
§ 157.060 PERMITS.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued for a communications facility until complete
compliance is demonstrated.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements in §§
157.035 through
157.044 the following shall also apply:
      (1)   Placement. Towers shall be sited withing the rear yard unless
located on a vacant lot or parcel or located on a site without access to
arterial streets.
      (2)   Setbacks. Towers shall be set back from the property line a minimum
of two-thirds of the height of the tower for a monopole tower and a minimum
setback equal to the height of guyed or lattice towers. Accessory buildings
shall meet the setbacks of the zoning district in which they are located.
      (3)   Screening. The lowest ten feet of a communications ancillary
building and tower shall be visually screened on a year-round basis with
suitable vegetation and/or nearby buildings. The scale and nature of vegetation
shall be of sufficient density to conform with the above requirements within
three years, as determined by the Town of Winfield Building Administrator and
the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (4)   Security fence. Ground ancillary buildings and towers shall have a
security fence erected within the visually screened area.
      (5)   Co-location agreement. A proposal for a new communications tower
shall be designed structurally, electrically, and in all respects, to
accommodate both the applicant's antennae and comparable antennae for at least
two additional users if the tower is over 100 feet in height and for at least
one additional user if the tower is over 60 feet in height. The tower owner
shall allow the shared use of the tower if an additional user agrees in writing
to meet reasonable terms and conditions for shared use. The conditions and
terms for shared use shall be submitted to the town. If the land for the tower
is leased, a copy of the relevant portions of a signed lease allowing the tower
owner to add additional users and associated facilities on the tower shall be
submitted at the time of application to the town for tower erection.
      (6)   Access only be arterial street. Access to a communications facility
must be directly from an arterial street only.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002; Am. Ord. 101A, passed 8-18-2008)
§ 157.061 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   (A)   No communications facility may be constructed, erected, altered or
modified in any zoning district in the town, unless an improvement location
permit has been issued authorizing the same in accordance with the provisions
of
Chapter 156, the provisions of this subchapter and in accordance with the code
of ordinances.
   (B)   No improvement location permit may be issued for the construction,
erection, alteration or modification of any communications facility unless the
requirement of this section have been satisfied.
      (1)   Application. An application for an improvement location permit for
a communications facility shall include the information required for the
special exception application, as specified in this chapter.
      (2)   Permit fees. All applicable improvement location permit fees shall
have been paid prior to issuance.
      (3)   Evidence of special exception. The applicant shall file evidence
demonstrating that a special exception has been duly granted pursuant to this
subchapter, or demonstrating the communication facility's compliance with the
provisions of §
157.003(A).
      (4)   FCC and FAA approval. The applicant shall furnish evidence of
appropriate licensure and approval by the Federal Communications Commissions
(FCC) for the construction and tower approval by the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA), as applicable.
      (5)   Notification of other providers. The applicant for an improvement
location permit for the construction or erection of a new communications
facility shall file proof of delivery of the written notice required in §
157.018.
      (6)   Compliance with design standards. The proposed communications
facility shall meet the design criteria specified in this chapter.
      (7)   Site plan review. Applications for an improvement location permit
for alteration or modification of an existing communications facility shall be
submitted to the Plan Commission for site plan approval prior to issuance of an
improvement location permit. Upon receipt of an application for an improvement
location permit for alteration and modification of an existing communications
facility, the Town of Winfield Building Inspector shall submit the application
to the Plan Commission. The Plan Commission shall review the application for
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and shall either approve or
deny the site plan within 60 days of filing of the application with the Town of
Winfield Building Inspector. No improvement location permit for alteration or
modification of an existing communications facility may be issued without Plan
Commission approval of the application and site plan hereunder.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 157.062 PERMIT AND LICENSE FEES.
   The Building Commissioner shall maintain a schedule of fees for building
permits. The amounts for such permits thereof shall be set from time to time by
the Town Council.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 157.063 STOP ORDERS.
   The Building Commissioner or his delegee may issue a stop order commanding
that work on a communications facility cease if:
   (A)   The facility requires a permit and none has been issued;
   (B)   The person or firm erecting, altering, removing, or constructing the
facility is not registered and valid contractor;
   (C)   The facility violates any provision of this chapter; or
   (D)   The continuation of work otherwise threatens public safety.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 157.064 INSPECTIONS.
   All communications facilities for which a building permit is required shall
be subject to inspection by the Building Commissioner or his or her delegee.
Footing inspections may be required by the Building Commissioner for all
facilities having footings. All facilities containing electrical wiring shall
be subject to the provisions of the National Electric Code.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 157.080 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   Any communications facility constructed, erected, altered or modified in any
zoning district in the town shall comply with the standards in §§
157.081 and
157.082.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 157.081 ACCOMMODATION OF MULTIPLE USERS.
   Any proposed communications tower for commercial wireless communications
service shall be designed structurally , electrically and in all respects, to
accommodate both the applicant's antennae and comparable antennae for at least
one additional user, if the communications tower is over 60 feet in height but
less than 100 feet in heigh, or for at least two additional users if the
communications tower is over 100 feet in height.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 157.082 TOWER AND ANTENNA DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   Proposed or modified communications towers and antennae shall meet the
following design requirements:
   (A)   Communications towers and antennae shall be designed to blend into the
natural surrounding environment through the use of color and camouflaging
architectural treatment, except in instances where the color dictated by
federal and state authorities, such as the FAA.
   (B)   Communications towers for commercial wireless communications service
shall be of a monopole design, unless the Board of Zoning Appeals determines
that an alternative design would better blend in with the surrounding
environment. Maximum height of an communications facility shall be 165 feet.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
VIOLATIONS AND REMEDIES
§ 157.095 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   When written notice of violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter
has been served on the property owner, agent, occupant, contractor, or builder,
such violation shall be discontinued. Unless the Building Commissioner
specifies a particular time by which the violation must be removed, it shall be
assumed that each day the violation continues constitutes a separate violation.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 157.096 RIGHT OF INJUNCTION.
   The Building Commissioner or his or her designated representative may
institute a suit for injunction in appropriate court to restrain an individual
from violating the provisions of this chapter and may also institute a suit for
a mandatory injunction directing the removal of any structure or improvement.
Such remedy shall be in addition to other remedies, fines, and enforcements set
forth in this chapter or the code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 157.097 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   In order to determine if any communications facility or structure is
unlawfully erected, altered, or maintained, the Building Commissioner or any
officer of the town may enter onto that property to investigate the matter and
may take appropriate action to bring such communications facility or structure
into compliance. However, before action to bring such communications facility
into compliance may be taken, all persons holding a substantial interest in the
communications facility or structure, must be notified and given reasonable
opportunity to bring the facility or structure into compliance, except that the
town may, without such notice, take any steps necessary to alleviate immediate
public danger. The town's cost for any work done on the site may be recouped
from any person chargeable with the violation of from the surety of deposit
made.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 157.098 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Building Commissioner shall have a
right to appeal such decision withing 30 days to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
§ 157.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to any and all other remedies set forth in this chapter
for a violation thereof, the Building Commissioner may, for any violation of
this chapter, levy a fine against the violator of not less than $50, nor more
than $250.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner shall notify the violator(s) in writing of
such fine. The Building Commissioner may, in the event that the violator
maintains a bond or deposit with the town for such violations, charge the fine
against such bond or deposit, and notify the violator of his or her intent to
take such action. If the violator does not protest the notice of violation, in
writing, within 30 days, the town may charge the fine against the bond or
deposit without further notice. If no bond or deposit is on file, the violator
shall pay the levied fine personally to the town.
   (C)    The Building Commissioner may levy a fine for each day the violation
is continued.
(Ord. 2002-101, passed 9-17-2002)
CHAPTER 158: LANDSCAPE DESIGN STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS
Section
   
158.01   Intent
   
158.02   Definitions
   
158.03   General requirements
   
158.04   Installation and maintenance
   
158.05   Buffer landscaping and general requirements
   
158.06   Fences, walls and hedges
   
158.07   Corner lots
   
158.08   Subdivision development
   
158.09   Commercial, institutional and industrial landscaping
   
158.10   Planning
   
158.11   Utility companies
   
158.12   Residential landscaping
 
   
158.99   Penalty
§ 158.01 INTENT.
   This chapter is intended to:
   (A)   Improve the appearance of off-street parking areas, vehicular use
areas (those areas used by vehicles for passage or parking that are covered by
an impervious surface including, but not limited to parking lots, driveways,
etc.), and properties abutting public rights of way;
   (B)   Reduce heating effects of paved surfaces;
   (C)   Require buffering between differing land uses;
   (D)   Minimize runoff soil depletion and erosion and helping to reduce
flooding;
   (E)   Lessen the transmission of noise, dust, and glare from one lot to
another;
   (F)   Maintain or improve the unique character of town streets and
neighborhoods and to contribute to the general welfare through landscaping.
(Ord. 255, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 158.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECIDUOUS SPECIES (TREES AND SHRUBS). Deciduous species are non-evergreen
with broad leaves that shed all or most of its foliage annually.
      (1)   Low deciduous shrub, two to five feet in height; to be planted at
least two and one-half to three feet apart.
      (2)   Medium deciduous shrub, five to eight feet in height; to be planted
at least three to four feet apart.
      (3)   Tall deciduous shrub, eight to ten feet in height; to be planted at
least four to six feet apart.
      (4)   Low deciduous tree, 15 to 30 feet in height; to be planted at least
15 to 30 feet apart, depending on spread.
      (5)   Medium deciduous tree, 30 to 40 feet in height; to be planted at
least 20 to 35 feet apart, depending on spread.
      (6)   Tall deciduous tree, 40 to 100 feet in height; to be planted at
least 40 to 50 feet apart; columnar species, 20 to 30 feet apart.
   EVERGREEN SPECIES (TREES AND SHRUBS). Evergreen species remain green and
mostly retain their foliage throughout the year. Evergreens can be categorized
as narrow-leaf coniferous species or as broad-leaved species.
      (1)   Low evergreen shrub, six to 24 inches in height; to be planted at
least two and one-half to three feet apart, depending on spread.
      (2)   Medium evergreen shrub, two to eight feet in height; to be planted
at least four to six feet apart, depending on spread.
      (3)   Tall evergreen shrub, eight to ten feet in height, sometimes 15
feet; to be planted at least six to eight feet apart, depending on spread.
      (4)   Low evergreen tree, 15 to 40 feet in height; to be planted at least
10 to 25 feet apart, depending on spread.
      (5)   Medium evergreen tree, 40 to 60 feet in height; to be planted at
least 25 to 35 feet apart, depending on spread.
      (6)   Tall evergreen tree, 60 to 80 feet in height; to be planted at
least 25 to 35 feet apart, depending on spread.
   HARDSCAPE. Whereas landscape elements are living and organic, hardscape
elements are inanimate site features of the built environment. HARDSCAPE
typically refers to a site's walkways, drives, seat walls, ramps, steps,
plazas, courtyards, pools, fountains and similar outdoor features and use
areas. They are comprised of hard wearing materials such as stone, brick, and
concrete as opposed to soft landscape materials such as grass, bark and
plantings areas.
   IMPERMEABLE SURFACE. Surfaces that are composed mainly of artificial
structures such as roadway pavements, walks, driveways and parking lots, and
are covered by mostly impenetrable materials such as asphalt, concrete, brick,
stone, and rooftops. An impermeable surface is composed of materials that water
will not readily penetrate thereby sealing the soil surface and eliminating
rainwater infiltration and natural groundwater recharge.
   PERMEABLE SURFACE. A permeable surface in the context of this chapter is
one, such as soil, that will allow sufficient water to penetrate the surface,
and that will allow absorption of water and provide nutrients to enable the
growth of tall shade trees.
   TOPOGRAPHY. The topography of a site is its three-dimensional shape and
involves the recording of surface terrain and the identification of specific
landforms.
   VIEWSHED. A viewshed is the geographical area (of land and water) that is
visible from a fixed vantage point. It includes all surrounding points that are
in line-of-sight with that location and excludes points that are beyond the
horizon or obstructed by terrain and other features (such as buildings and
trees). The term is used in urban and rural planning to identify areas of
particular scenic and/or historic value that are deemed worthy of preservation.
The preservation of viewsheds is frequently a goal in the designation of open
space areas, green belts, and community separators,
(Ord. 255, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 158.03 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The requirements of this section are minimum landscaping requirements,
and nothing herein shall preclude a developer and the town from agreeing to
more extensive landscaping.
   (B)   Landscape plans submitted to the Planning and Zoning Administrator
need to contain the following information: location of property lines;
locations of easements locations of building(s), dumpsters, parking areas, and
all vehicular use areas; location of utility service drop lines and
transmission lines, underground water, sewer, electric, and gas lines; and
other utilities; a platting list giving the numbers of trees, shrubs and any
other plant material by their Latin and common names, and their planted size; a
legend showing symbols for the trees and shrubs by species/cultivar; a scale of
no more than 30 feet to the inch; a north arrow; contact address for plan
review; address of the plan site.
   (C)   Any variations from the standards established by this chapter on any
plat or plan must be submitted to the Plan Commission.
   (D)   A representative of the individual or entity submitting the plan must
attend the Plan Commission meetings at which the plan is to be reviewed.
   (E)   If the specific application of the landscape requirements will
seriously limit functions of the site, the Plan Commission shall have authority
to permit consolidation and/or relocation of these landscaped requirements
elsewhere within the site or to a public park or right-of-way within the town.
(Ord. 255, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 158.04 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   If installation of plantings is not completed in a planting season,
then landscaping must be installed during the next planting season. All
hardscape preparations for the landscape must be complete before the buildings
are occupied. In no case shall any plant material interfere with or cause
damage to utility lines, public roadways or other works. Species of trees whose
roots are known to cause damage to pavements or other public works shall not be
planted closer than 15 feet to such public works. A list of appropriate species
to plant in this situation is maintained by the Planning and Zoning
Administrator. Trees planted must come from a state certified nursery.
   (B)   Required landscaping layouts as well as associated tree plantings
shall have bond surety deposit on file with the town.
   (C)   Landscaping layouts to be avoided include; plantings resulting in the
monotonous view of a long straight hedge consisting of only one or two types of
shrubs that are not properly integrated as a part of a design theme.
   (D)   Trees selected for installation across all applications shall contain
a caliper size of at least two and one-half inches in diameter, measured four
and one-half feet (about chest height) above ground level.
   (E)   Evergreen trees shall not be used as street trees. A list of potential
street trees is maintained by the Planning and Zoning Administrator.
   (F)   Tree spacing:
      (1)   Where there is a building of more than one story, trees shall be
planted at least 20 feet from such buildings.
      (2)   Tall sized deciduous trees must be planted 40 to 50 feet apart and
from any lesser sized trees. Columnar species of tall trees must be planted 20
to 30 feet apart and from any lesser sized trees.
      (3)   Medium sized deciduous trees must be planted 20 to 35 feet apart
and from any lesser sized trees, depending on spread.
      (4)   Low sized deciduous trees must be planted 15 to 30 feet apart,
depending on spread.
      (5)   Tall sized evergreen trees must be planted 25 to 35 feet apart, and
from any lesser sized trees, depending on spread.
      (6)   Medium sized evergreen trees must be planted 25 to 35 feet apart,
and from any lesser sized trees, depending on spread.
      (7)   Low sized evergreen trees must be planted ten to 25 feet apart,
depending on spread.
      (8)   Healthy trees preserved during site preparation may be counted
toward fulfilling the tree requirements.
   (G)   Existing invasive plants shall be properly removed and the use of such
plants for landscaping shall be prohibited. A list of known area invasive plant
species is maintained by the Planning and Zoning Administrator.
   (H)   The owner of landscaping required by this section shall maintain such
landscaping in good condition so as to present a healthy condition, free from
refuse and debris. The owner shall make provisions for the adequate watering of
live plant material. If landscape plantings die, they must be replaced at the
owner's expense.
   (I)   All retention and detention ponds/basins shall be seeded with wet-
mesic prairie seed mix vegetative edge to establish a filter of sediment from
entering and filling the pond/basin.
   (J)   No person shall plant, prune, move, or remove any tree or shrub on any
public area of the town without first obtaining permission from the Planning
and Zoning Administrator, whose permission shall be given in writing.
   (K)   No tree over three inches in diameter, measured four and one half feet
above grade, except within ten feet from a foundation, shall be removed without
good cause. Good cause shall include, but not be limited to, those trees which
are necessary to build any primary structure, drive, garage, or other permitted
structure; or those trees which have been found to be dead, dying, diseased, or
pose a hazard to life, limb, or property, as attested by a qualified tree
surgeon or arborist. No tree, regardless of size, located within 15 feet of any
property line shall be removed without good cause. More emphasis shall be given
to preserving trees in front and rear yards, rather than side yards.
(Ord. 255, passed 12-10-2015; Am. Ord. 283, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 158.05 BUFFER LANDSCAPING AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever a proposed AG, AG-B, C-l, C-2, C-3, M-l, PD-C use or zoning
district, or a commercial use within a PD-M district abuts a residential
district, in addition to the applicable requirements outlined in §
156.06, a 50-foot buffer yard screening shall be created by the developer of
the proposed use or zoning district along the district boundary unless:
      (1)   The district boundary is separated from the residential district by
a street.
      (2)   If an AG, AG-B, C-1, C-2, C-3, M-1, PD-C use, or a commercial use
within a PD-M district is existing and developed without the required buffer
yard screening, the developer of a proposed R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, or MF
residential use or zoning district shall be responsible for satisfying the
requirements of division (A) above.
      (3)   A development standards variance is obtained from the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
   (B)   Screening, as required by the provisions of this code, shall be of
such nature and density that will screen the activities on the lot from view
from the normal level of a first-story window on an abutting lot within five
years.
   (C)   If no buffer landscaping exists between two lots of differing uses,
the developer of a new development shall bear the responsibility of installing
the buffer landscaping.
   (D)   Trees selected for installation shall contain a caliper size of at
least two and one-half inches in diameter, measured four and one-half feet
(about chest height) above ground level.
   (E)   Evergreen trees shall be at least six feet in height when planted.
   (F)   Vehicular encroachment. Landscaped areas abutting parking spaces must
be protected from vehicular encroachment by curbing to prevent vehicles from
damaging trees or other landscaping. Vehicles shall not encroach on landscaped
areas.
   (G)   Deciduous and evergreen shrubs shall be used to screen parking areas
from public streets and must be at least 18 to 24 inches in height and grow to
obtain an overall screening height of at least three feet above the parking
surface after three years. A minimum plant size of six feet in height, when
planted, is required for buffering between different land uses. Smaller plants
could be used if combined with other landscape measures, such as planters or
berms, provided the desired degree of buffering or screening is achieved.
   (H)   Within a parking lot, curb-protected landscape islands must be placed
at the end of each row of parking spaces and placed to interrupt any continuous
row of parking spaces into runs of ten spaces or less. Each island must contain
at least one non fruit-bearing low deciduous tree incorporated into the
landscape planting plan.
(Ord. 255, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 158.06 FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, fences, walls, and hedges
may be permitted in any required side or rear yards or along the edge of any
required side or rear yards. In the case of a front yard, any fence, wall, or
shrub which obstructs vision between a height of two and one-half feet and ten
feet measured from the established street grades within the triangular area
formed by intersection of any street right-of-way lines by a straight line
drawn between those right-of-way lines extended along each line 25 feet from
their intersection, excluding frontage roads, shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Whenever an AG-B, C-1, C-2, C-3, M-l, PD-C use, or a commercial use
within a PD-M district abuts a residential district, a fence eight feet in
height shall be erected along the district boundary unless:
      (1)   The district boundary is separate from the residential district by
a street.
      (2)   The district boundary is located on a side lot line, in which case
the required fence shall be limited in height to three and one-half feet from
the point at which the side lot line intersects the front building line of the
abutting residential property to the front property line.
   (C)   Whenever an AG-B, C-1, C-2, C-3, M-l, PD-C use, or a commercial use
within a PD-M district abuts a residential district, all fences constructed to
a height of eight feet pursuant to this section shall be made of a solid
material, without gaps or spaces, to reduce noise transmission. If a wood fence
is constructed, it shall be of tongue and groove or similar design to present a
solid face. Each fence shall be water-resistant treated. The structural design
of all eight-foot fences shall be approved by a registered engineer or
architect. Where proper engineering practice calls for a berm as part of the
fence construction, a berm shall be required.
   (D)   Unsightly rear entrances, utility or maintenance structures, HVAC
mechanicals, backup generators, storage areas, and loading areas/facilities for
commercial, multifamily residential, and industrial uses shall be screened by a
solid wall of eight feet in height and shrubbery, or a fence of eight feet in
height and shrubbery, if such area is not within an enclosed building or
structure. Such screenings shall be situated so as to screen the view of these
features from adjacent roads and properties. Such wall screenings shall be
constructed of wood, vinyl, brick, decorative concrete block, stone and shrubs.
The shrubs chosen will be of a type, when mature, are normally expected to grow
to the height of the fence or solid wall within five years of planting.
   (E)   Trash and/or garbage collection areas for commercial, multifamily
residential and industrial uses shall be enclosed on at least three sides by a
solid wall of eight feet in height and shrubbery, or by a fence of eight feet
in height and shrubbery, if such area is not within an enclosed building or
structure. Such screening shall be situated so as to screen the view of the
collection area from adjacent roads and properties. Such wall screening shall
be constructed of wood, vinyl, brick, decorative concrete block, stone and
shrubs. The shrubs chosen will be of a type, when mature, are normally expected
to grow to the height of the fence or solid wall within five years of planting.
   (F)   The fencing required by this section shall be mandatory for commercial
or manufacturing developments.
   (G)   The Plan Commission may approve a deviation from the strict
application of any of the above requirements relative to screening if:
      (1)   It can be clearly demonstrated that for topographic reasons, a
fence, wall, and/or screening as required herein could not possibly screen the
activities from view;
      (2)   A written request is received from the owners of the abutting
residential district property that the screening as required herein should be
waived or varied based on stated purposes;
      (3)   It can be clearly demonstrated that it is highly improbable that
the abutting property will be developed for residential purposes.
(Ord. 255, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 158.07 CORNER LOTS.
   (A)   Landscaping at intersections of a private drive and a public right-of-
way, or at intersections of two or more public rights-of-way, shall be
maintained at a maximum height of 24 inches or, if planted with trees, trees
shall have all branches trimmed to maintain a clear vision of eight feet above
the roadway surface, for such distance behind the right-of-way lines as is
deemed necessary on a case by case basis by the Planning and Zoning
Administrator to insure public safety.
   (B)   No landscaping, tree, fence, wall or similar item constructed or
installed after the adoption of this code shall be maintained in the vicinity
of any corner, street intersection, or access way intersecting a public right-
of-way which the Code Enforcement Officer determines is an obstruction to
visibility or is a traffic hazard.
(Ord. 255, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 158.08 SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Any new street developed in a subdivision by a private developer and
dedicated to the town shall have a street tree plan approved by the Plan
Commission and post a bond for future installation of the plan. This
requirement is added to the list of subdivision regulations.
   (B)   Entry monuments, signage, and landscaping around same shall be platted
and built on a common property not privately owned by any single homeowner in
that subdivision and maintained by the POA.
   (C)   All subdivision entrances shall be lighted by town approved street
lighting.
   (D)   Each subdivision entrance shall have a landscape plan approved by the
Plan Commission.
(Ord. 255, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 158.09 COMMERCIAL, INSTITUTIONAL AND INDUSTRIAL LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Application. This section shall apply to all new developments,
pavement replacing of existing parking lots greater than 25% including adding
at least one-fourth inch of material to the surface of 25% of the parking lot
by way of renovating, repaving, or upgrading, and to alterations to existing
buildings which will increase the floor area by more than 25%, and to
alterations, renovations, and improvements to existing buildings where the
costs exceed 50% of the Lake County Auditor's valuation. In the case of
pavement replacement and existing building alteration, the minimum number of
parking spaces required for the use by the town zoning code shall not be
reduced.
   (B)   Required trees. On all commercial and industrial properties, an eight-
foot wide landscape strip shall be required adjacent to the street right-of-
way, except where driveways or other openings may be required. This eight-foot
wide strip shall be landscaped open space free of any wall, fence, embankment
and/or walkway. At least one tall or two medium deciduous trees for each forty
feet shall be planted in the landscape strip. If utility requirements will only
allow low trees to be planted, three low trees shall be planted for each tall
shade tree required. Existing healthy trees may fulfill these minimum
requirements.
(Ord. 255, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 158.10 PLANNING.
   When the Town Engineer is to plan, design, and budget for a town project to
build a new street or widening existing streets, such plan, design, and budget
shall include the planting of street trees in the base bid with grass seeding.
Plans for the planting or preserving of shade trees are to be approved by the
Plan Commission, but are subject to budget limitations imposed by the town
legislative body.
(Ord. 255, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 158.11 UTILITY COMPANIES.
   Utility and construction companies must protect street trees from damage
while performing any work near town trees, and are held responsible for
replacement if existing trees die resulting from performance of their
construction or repairs. Determination of damages shall be made by a qualified
arborist whose services are paid by the town.
(Ord. 255, passed 12-10-2015)
§ 158.12 RESIDENTIAL LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Grass/lawn areas. On all multi-family residential development
properties, grass/lawn areas must be planted with sod. If the planting season
has passed, the property owner shall place on file with the town a landscape
surety deposit, per the recommendation of the Town Engineer. Lawn areas must be
maintained in a healthy condition.
   (B)   Single-family residential. Final seed and/or sod must be complete
prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy. If the planting season has
passed, the property owner shall place on file with the town a landscape surety
deposit, per the recommendation of the Town Engineer. Lawn areas must be
maintained in a healthy condition.
(Ord. 283, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 158.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to comply. In case any person refuses to comply with an order
issued by the Town Office of Code Enforcement pursuant to the above provisions,
in addition to the penalties provided by the Town Code, the town may institute
appropriate civil proceedings to enforce compliance with the order.
   (B)   Any person found to have removed or to have caused through their
actions the removal of a tree in a public place without the consent of the
Planning and Zoning Administrator as described in §
158.04 shall either replace the tree with one of similar type and size, as
determined by the Planning and Zoning Administrator, or be required to plant at
the site of the removal or elsewhere, as determined by the Plan Commission and
with the agreement of the Planning and Zoning Administrator, trees equal in
diameter at breast height to the one that they removed or caused to be removed.
In addition to the penalties provided by the Town Code, the town may institute
appropriate civil proceedings to enforce compliance.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation, who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects, or refuses to comply with, or who resist in the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be fined $250 for each offense. Each day
that a violation exists shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty should
not be construed as exclusive, and the town hereby provides that any other
remedy available to it, in law or in equity, may be utilized and implemented in
the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 255, passed 12-10-2015)
CHAPTER 159: UNDERGROUND AND BURIED UTILITIES DISTRICT
Section
   
159.01   Establishment
   
159.02   Purpose
   
159.03   Limitations or exclusions of provisions
   
159.04   Definitions
   
159.05   Permit applications
   
159.06   Construction of a new wireless support structure
   
159.07   Substantial modification of a wireless support structure
   
159.08   Collocation of wireless facilities on an existing structure
   
159.09   Construction, placement, and use of small cell facilities
   
159.10   Written determinations
   
159.11   Construction requirements
§ 159.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   An Underground and Buried Utilities District was established to be in
effect, as of April 30, 2017, throughout all public right-of-way within the
Municipal Corporate boundaries.
(Ord. 274, passed 8-22-2017)
§ 159.02 PURPOSE.
    The purpose of this chapter is to implement regulations and procedures to
provide for sensible and reasonable land use standards to: 1) allow for the
provision of adequate reliable public and private electrical supply and
telecommunication services; 2) provide for and serve the needs of the town
through the use of small cell facilities for telecommunications; and 3)
minimize the adverse and undesirable visual effects of said provisions for said
facilities within the town.
(Ord. 274, passed 8-22-2017)
§ 159.03 LIMITATIONS OR EXCLUSIONS OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to: private streets,
private access easements, internal drives in a commercial development, railroad
rights-of-way, or highways under the jurisdiction of INDOT.
   (B)   Small cell facilities for telecommunications are not permitted within
public right-of-way having "Local" or "Rural" functional classification as
defined in the town thoroughfare or transportation plan.
   (C)   In accordance with I.C. § 8-1-32.3-17(a), the town may not
discriminate among communications service providers or public utilities with
respect to:
      (1)   Approving applications, issuing permits, or otherwise establishing
terms and conditions for construction of wireless or wireline communications
facilities.
      (2)   Authorizing or approving tax incentives for wireless or wireline
communications facilities;
      (3)   Providing access to rights-of-way, infrastructure, utility poles,
river and bridge crossings, and other physical assets owned or controlled by
the town.
   (D)   In accordance further with I.C. § 8-1-32.3-17(a), the town may not
require an applicant to submit information about, and may not evaluate an
applicant's business decisions with respect to, the applicant's designed
service, customer demand, service quality, or desired signal strength to a
particular location.
   (E)   A permit is not required for any of the following:
      (1)   The routine maintenance of wireless facilities.
      (2)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar to, or the same size or smaller than, the
wireless facilities being replaced.
      (3)   The installation, placement, maintenance, or replacement of micro
wireless facilities that are suspended on cables strung between existing
utility poles in compliance with applicable codes by a communications service
provider that is authorized to use the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 274, passed 8-22-2017)
§ 159.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter and consistent with I.C. § 8-1-32.3 et seq.,
the words and phrases below are defined as follows:
   ANTENNA. Any communications equipment that transmits or receives
electromagnetic radio signals used in the provision of wireless communications
service.
   BASE STATION. A station located at a specific site that is authorized to
communicate with mobile stations. The term includes all radio transceivers,
antennas, coaxial cables, power supplies, and other electronics associated with
a station.
   COLLOCATION or CO-LOCATION. The placement or installation of wireless
facilities on existing structures that include a wireless facility or a
wireless support structure, including water towers and other buildings or
structures. The term includes the placement, replacement, or modification of
wireless facilities within an approved equipment compound.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the meaning set forth in I.C. § 8-1-
2.6-13.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN. A written plan (minimum size 11x17, based on a standard
engineering or architectural scale, dimensioned in feet and inches) that
describes the proposed wireless support structure and all equipment and network
components including antennas, transmitters, receivers, base stations, power
supplies, cabling and related equipment. The plan shall also include
information that demonstrates that the aesthetics of the wireless support
structure is substantially similar to other structures located nearest the
proposed location; includes the total height and width of the wireless facility
and wireless support structure, including cross section and elevation, footing,
foundation and wind speed details; a structural analysis indicating the
capacity for future and existing antennas, and calculations for the foundation
capacity. All drawings shall be sealed, signed, and dated by a registered
professional engineer, licensed in the State of Indiana.
   ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION TOWER. A structure that physically supports high
voltage overhead power lines. The term does not include a utility pole.
   EQUIPMENT COMPOUND. The area that: (1) surrounds or is near the base of a
wireless support structure; and (2) encloses wireless facilities.
   EXISTING STRUCTURE. Excludes a utility pole or an electrical transmission
tower.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small cell facility to which both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The dimensions are no more than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in
width and twelve inches in height; and
      (2)   An exterior antenna is no longer than eleven inches (11").
   PERMIT AUTHORITY. The Town of Winfield Building and Planning Department and
Town Council.
   SMALL CELL FACILITY. A wireless facility defined by divisions (1) or (2)
below:
      (1)   A personal wireless service facility as defined by the Federal
Telecommunications Act of 1996, as in effect on July 1, 2015; or
      (2)   A wireless facility that satisfies the following requirements:
         (a)   Each antenna, including exposed elements, has a volume of six
(6) cubic feet or less; and
         (b)   The primary equipment enclosure located with the facility has a
volume of twenty eight (28) cubic feet or less.
      (3)   For purposes of division (2)(a) above, the volume of the primary
equipment enclosure does not include the following equipment that is located
outside the primary equipment enclosure:
         (a)   Electric meters;
         (b)   Concealment equipment;
         (c)   Telecommunications demarcation boxes;
         (d)   Ground-based enclosures;
         (e)   Back-up power systems;
         (f)   Grounding equipment;
         (g)   Power transfer switches; or
         (h)   Cut-off switches.
   SMALL CELL NETWORK. A collection of interrelated small cell facilities
designed to deliver wireless service.
   SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION OF A WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. 
      (1)   The mounting of a wireless facility on a wireless support structure
in a manner that:
         (a)   Increases the height of the wireless support structure by the
greater of: (a) 10% of the original height of the wireless support structure;
or (b) 20 feet;
         (b)   Adds an appurtenance to the wireless support structure that
protrudes horizontally from the wireless support structure more than the
greater of: (a) 20 feet; or (b) the width of the wireless support structure at
the location of the appurtenance; or
         (c)   Increases the square footage of the equipment compound in which
the wireless facility is located by more than 2,500 square feet.
      (2)   The term SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION does not include the following:
         (a)   Increasing the height of a wireless support structure to avoid
interfering with an existing antenna;
         (b)   Increasing the diameter or area of a wireless support structure
to: (a) shelter an antenna from inclement weather; or (b) connect an antenna to
the wireless support structure by cable.
   UTILITY PLAN. A plan (minimum size 11x17, based on a standard engineering or
architectural scale, dimensions shown in feet and inches) demonstrating the
location and relationship to existing utilities within the vicinity of the
proposed wireless support structure. The plan is includes drawings of:
      (1)   The project area showing location and all dimensions;
      (2)   The wireless support structure dimensions (size, height, etc.);
      (3)   Vicinity map showing the location of the proposed wireless facility
and the surrounding street;
      (4)   Proximity map showing distance and dimensions from public
facilities (curb, sidewalk, street landscape area, street centerline, right-of-
way line, etc.) and adjacent buildings;
      (5)   Ground disturbance plan showing depth and dimensions of disturbance
and excavation parameters;
      (6)   Adjacent utility plan, showing location and distances of all
adjacent above ground and below ground utility facilities; and
      (7)   Documentation of coordination with utilities, including a conflict
analysis and work plan which documents that there are no conflicts with
existing utilities and a restoration plan if there are any conflicts.
   UTILITY POLE. A structure that is:
      (1)   Owned or operated by:
         (a)   A public utility;
         (b)   A communications service provider;
         (c)   A municipality,
         (d)   An electric membership corporation; or
         (e)   A rural electric cooperative; and is
      (2)   Designed and used to:
         (a)   Carry lines, cables, or wires for telephone, cable television,
or electricity;
         (b)   Provide lighting;
         (c)   Provide traffic control; or
         (d)   Provide signage.
      (3)   The term does not include a wireless support structure or an
electrical transmission tower.
    WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Services, whether mobile or at a fixed
location, that are provided using wireless facilities through licensed or
unlicensed spectrum.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. The set of equipment and network components that are
owned and operated by a communications service provider; and necessary to
provide wireless communications service. The term does not include a wireless
support structure.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure designed to support, or
capable of supporting wireless facilities. The term does not include a utility
pole or an electrical transmission tower.
(Ord. 274, passed 8-22-2017)
§ 159.05 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   An applicant that provides wireless communications service, owns or
otherwise makes available infrastructure for wireless communications services
may apply for a Utility Permit to the Planning and Building Department for the
following actions in the Underground and Buried Utility District:
      (1)   Construction of a new wireless support structure;
      (2)   Substantial modification of a wireless support structure;
      (3)   Collocation of wireless facilities on an existing structure; or
      (4)   Construction, placement, and use of small cell facilities.
   (B)   A permit is not required for the following:
      (1)   Routine maintenance of wireless facilities;
      (2)   Replacement of wireless facilities with equipment that is (1)
substantially similar to, or (2) the same size or smaller than the existing;
and
      (3)   Installation, maintenance, or replacement of micro wireless
facilities that are suspended on cable(s) between existing utility poles in
compliance with applicable codes by a communications service provider
authorized to use public rights-of-way.
   (C)   An application for placement of a small cell facility and the
supporting structure is exempt from local zoning review if the total height of
the supporting structure does not exceed the greater of:
      (1)   Fifty feet above grade; or
      (2)   The height of any utility pole in place on July 1, 2017, within 500
feet of the proposed small cell facility, plus ten feet.
   (D)   The applicant shall forward an application determined complete, with
supporting documentation, to the appropriate authority and obtain a Certificate
of Appropriateness, if the proposed location is within an area:
      (1)   Designated as a historic preservation district under I.C. § 36-7-
11; or
      (2)   Designated as a historic preservation area under I.C. § 36-7-11.1.
   (E)   An applicant shall demonstrate that the proposed wireless facility,
wireless support structure or substantial modification thereof complies with
the requirements of §§
159.01 through
159.10, inclusive.
   (F)   The applicant shall pay a fee in accordance with the following
schedule:
 
Utility Permits                                                        2017 Fee
Add an antenna, base station or small cell facility to an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure within public right-of-way; $50
including review, permit and inspection
Replacement or substantial modification of an existing wireless
support structure within public right-of-way; including review, permit $50
and inspection
Locate and construct new wireless facility or wireless support
structure within public right-of-way; including review, permit and     $100
inspection
Annual fee to collocate small cell facilities on a utility pole owned  $50
by town or under its control
 
(Ord. 274, passed 8-22-2017)
§ 159.06 CONST RUCTION OF A NEW WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE.
   (A)   An application for construction of a new wireless support structure
must include all of the following:
      (1)   Name, address and contact information for applicant;
      (2)   Location of proposed wireless support structure;
      (3)   A construction plan as defined above;
      (4)   Evidence supporting choice of location, including sworn statement
in accordance with I.C. § 8-1-323-20;
      (5)   Evidence showing that the application complies with Federal
Communications Commission requirements; and
      (6)   Evidence showing that application complies with industry standards.
   (B)   Within ten business days of receipt, the Building Administrator shall
notify the applicant in writing of all defects in the application. If notice is
not given within ten business days, the application is considered complete.
   (C)   The applicant may cure defects and resubmit the corrected application
within 30 days of receiving the notice. The applicant shall notify the town
within the 30-day period if additional time is required to cure the defects.
   (D)   Upon determination of a complete application, a notice shall be posted
on the town website and applicant will be provided a list of interested parties
that have registered with the town. Applicant will send a copy of the notice
via First Class mail, at its expense, to all interested parties. Applicant
shall provide proof of mailing to the town. An interested party is defined as:
(a) a neighborhood association or homeowners association that is registered
with the town; and (b) owners of record, as identified by the Lake County
Auditor's Office, abutting the proposed location and lying on the opposite side
of the right-of-way from the proposed location and abutting parcels.
   (E)   Not more than 90 days after determination of a complete application,
the Town Engineer or designee, with concurrence of the Building Administrator,
shall review the application to determine if it complies with applicable laws
and ordinances governing land use and zoning, and notify the applicant in
writing if application is approved or denied.
      (1)   If the applicant requested additional time to cure defects, the 90-
day period is extended for a corresponding amount of time.
      (2)   If the application requires a variance of use, the 90-day period
may be extended for not more than an additional 30 days.
(Ord. 274, passed 8-22-2017)
§ 159.07 SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION OF A WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE.
   (A)   An application for substantial modification of a wireless support
structure must include all of the following:
      (1)   Name, address and contact information for applicant;
      (2)   Location of the affected wireless support structure;
      (3)   A construction plan as defined above;
      (4)   Evidence showing that the application complies with Federal
Communications Commission requirements; and
      (5)   Evidence showing that application complies with industry standards.
   (B)   An application containing all required information is considered
complete. Within ten (10) business days of receipt, the Building Administrator
shall notify the applicant in writing of all defects in the application. If
notice is not given within ten business days, the application is considered
complete.
   (C)   The applicant may cure defects and resubmit the corrected application
within 30 days of receiving the notice. The applicant shall notify the town
within the 30- day period if additional time is required to cure the defects.
   (D)   Upon determination of a complete application, a notice shall be posted
on the town website and applicant will be provided a list of interested parties
that have registered with the town. Applicant will send a copy of the notice
via First Class mail, at its expense, to all interested parties. Applicant
shall provide proof of mailing to the town. An interested party is defined as:
(a) a neighborhood association or homeowners association that is registered
with the town; and (b) owners of record, as identified by the Lake County
Auditor's Office, abutting the proposed location and lying on the opposite side
of the right-of-way from the proposed location and abutting parcels.
   (E)   Not more than 90 days after determination of a complete application,
the Town Engineer or designee, with concurrence of the Planning and Building
Administrator, shall review the application to determine if it complies with
applicable laws and ordinances governing land use and zoning, and notify the
applicant in writing if application is approved or denied.
      (1)   If the applicant requested additional time to cure defects, the 90-
day period is extended for a corresponding amount of time.
      (2)   If the application requires a variance of use, the 90-day period
may be extended for not more than an additional 30 days.
(Ord. 274, passed 8-22-2017)
§ 159.08 COLLOCATION OF WIRELESS FACILITIES ON AN EXISTING STRUCTURE.
   (A)   An application for collocation of wireless facilities on an existing
structure must include all of the following:
      (1)   Name, address and contact information for applicant;
      (2)   Location of the affected wireless support structure(s); and
      (3)   Evidence showing that application complies with applicable building
requirements.
      (4)   Evidence showing that the application complies with Federal
Communications Commission requirements; and
      (5)   Evidence showing that application complies with industry standards.
   (B)   An application for collocation of wireless facilities on an existing
structure is not required to comply with zoning or land use requirements and is
not subject to public hearing.
   (C)   An applicant may submit a single consolidated application for multiple
collocation or small cell facilities that are located within the permit
authority's jurisdiction and constitute a single small cell network, and the
town shall issue a single permit for all facilities included in the application
rather than multiple permits for each facility.
   (D)   Within ten business days of receipt, the Building Administrator shall
notify the applicant in writing of all defects in the application. If notice is
not given within ten business days, the application is considered complete.
   (E)   The applicant may cure defects and resubmit the corrected application
within 15 days of receiving the notice. The applicant shall notify the town
within the 15-day period if additional time is required to cure the defects.
   (F)   Upon determination of a complete application, a notice shall be posted
on the town website and applicant will be provided a list of interested parties
that have registered with the town. Applicant will send a copy of the notice
via First Class mail, at its expense, to all interested parties. Applicant
shall provide proof of mailing to the town. An interested party is defined as:
(a) a neighborhood association or homeowners association that is registered
with the town; and (b) owners of record, as identified by the Lake County
Auditor's Office, abutting the proposed location and lying on the opposite side
of the right-of-way from the proposed location and abutting parcels.
   (G)   Not more than 45 days after determination of a complete application,
the Town Engineer or designee, with concurrence of the Building Administrator,
shall review the application to determine if it complies with applicable
building permit requirements, and notify the applicant in writing if
application is approved or denied. If the applicant requested additional time
to cure defects, the 45-day period is extended for a corresponding amount of
time.
(Ord. 274, passed 8-22-2017)
§ 159.09 CONSTRUCTION, PLACEMENT, AND USE OF SMALL CELL FACILITIES.
   (A)   An application for construction, placement, and use of small cell
facilities must include all of the following:
      (1)   Name, address and contact information for applicant;
      (2)   Location of the affected wireless support structure(s); and
      (3)   Evidence showing that application complies with applicable building
requirements.
      (4)   Evidence showing that the application complies with Federal
Communications Commission requirements; and
      (5)   Evidence showing that application complies with industry standards.
   (B)   An applicant may submit a single consolidated application for multiple
small cell facilities that are located within the permit authority's
jurisdiction and constitute a single small cell network, and the town shall
issue a single permit for all facilities included in the application rather
than multiple permits for each facility.
   (C)   Within ten business days of receipt, the Building Administrator shall
notify the applicant in writing of all defects in the application. If notice is
not given within ten business days, the application is considered complete.
   (D)   The applicant may cure defects and resubmit the corrected application
within 15 days of receiving the notice.
      (1)   The applicant shall notify the town within the 15-day period if
additional time is required to cure the defects.
      (2)   Upon determination of a complete application, a notice shall be
posted on the town website and applicant will be provided a list of interested
parties that have registered with the town. Applicant will send a copy of the
notice via First Class mail, at its expense, to all interested parties.
Applicant shall provide proof of mailing to the town. An interested party is
defined as: (a) a neighborhood association or homeowners association that is
registered with the town; and (b) owners of record, as identified by the Lake
County Auditor's Office, abutting the proposed location and lying on the
opposite side of the right-of-way from the proposed location and abutting
parcels.
   (E)   Not more than 60 days after determination of a complete application
for small cell facilities, the Town Engineer or designee, with concurrence of
the Building Administrator, shall review the application to determine if it
complies with applicable building permit requirements, and notify the applicant
in writing if application is approved or denied. If the applicant requested
additional time to cure defects, the 60-ay period is extended for a
corresponding amount of time.
   (F)   The town may propose an alternate location to collocate a small cell
facility on an existing utility pole or wireless support structure within 50
feet of the proposed location of a new wireless support structure. The
applicant shall use the alternate location if:
      (1)   The applicant's right to collocate is subject to reasonable terms
and conditions; and
      (2)   The applicant determines the alternate location does not cause
technical limitations or additional costs.
   (G)   The town may charge an annual fee for small cell facilities collocated
on a utility pole owned or under its control, and may impose additional general
terms and conditions for collocation which are reasonable and
nondiscriminatory.
(Ord. 274, passed 8-22-2017)
§ 159.10 WRITTEN DETERMINATIONS.
   In a written determination issued under §§
159.05 through
159.10, inclusive, the town shall state clearly the basis for the decision to
approve or deny an application. In the event that the application is denied,
the written notice must include substantial evidence in support of the denial.
A notice is considered written if it is included in the minutes of a public
meeting of the town, submitted as public communication or report, sent via
USPS, or transmitted via electronic mail. If the town fails to act on an
application within the applicable deadline as proscribed in §§
159.05 through
159.10, inclusive, the application is considered approved.
(Ord. 274, passed 8-22-2017)
§ 159.11 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   All antennas, telecommunication towers, accessory structures and any other
wiring constructed within the Underground and Buried Utility District shall
comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   All applicable provisions of the Town Zoning Ordinance, as amended,
and the State of Indiana Building Code, as amended, and the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) regulations, when applicable;
   (B)   All wireless facilities and support structures shall be certified by a
qualified and licensed professional engineer to conform to the latest
structural standards and wind loading requirements of the Uniform Building
Code, as amended, and the Electronics Industry Association.
   (C)   All wireless facilities and support structures shall be designed to
conform to accepted electrical engineering methods and practices and to comply
with the provisions of the National Electrical Code, as amended.
   (D)   All wireless facilities and support structures shall be constructed to
conform to the requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA), as amended.
   (E)   All wireless facilities and support structures shall be designed and
constructed to all applicable standards of the American National Standards
Institute (ANSI) manual, as amended.
(Ord. 274, passed 8-22-2017)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
   
I.   EASEMENTS; GRANTS AND VACATIONS
   
II.   USE VARIANCES AND SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS
   
III.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: EASEMENTS; GRANTS AND VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Vacates public utility easement in the north 40 feet of
                     the 50-foot easement in the north 40 feet of the south 100
                     feet of Parcels A and B of the Country Commons Planned
32       9-17-1997   Business Center; grants new easement for drainage and
                     utilities in the south 10 feet of Parcels A and B, and
                     easements for stormwater drainage and common access and
                     crossing in those parcels
                     Vacates public easements in the north 170 feet of Parcel A
60       5-19-1999   and in the south 300 feet of the north 470.1 feet of the
                     west 160 feet of Parcel A of the Country Commons Planned
                     Business Center
                     Vacates five foot negative easement on the west five feet
                     of the Winfield Development Corporation's real estate,
2003-108 9-4-2003    described as Lot 574, Town Center Subdivision, recorded in
                     the Plat Book 85, page 59 in the Lake County Recorder's
                     Office
                     Vacates Morgan Street in Country Meadow Estates, 3rd
                     Addition, Unit 20, as set out in the Plat thereof in Plat
                     Book 90, page 57, in the Office of the Recorder of Lake
113      3-23-2004   County and recorded on the 10th day of October, 2001, as
                     document no. 2001-064135, beginning at the intersection of
                     said Morgan Street with Boardwalk, thence north to its
                     terminus
199      2-15-2011   Vacates certain real estate commonly known as a portion of
                     a no access easement at 4209 East 101st Avenue
263      5-26-2016   Vacating a parcel of real property platted as 121st Lane
273      8-8-2017    Vacating a public way easement of adjoining real property
                     located at 6324 E. 125th Avenue and 6402 E. 125th Avenue
                    
 
TABLE II: USE VARIANCES AND SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Grants use variance at 11318 Randolph Street, zoned AG,
43       3-25-1998   for sale of plants, vegetables, and herbs from outside the
                     premises
                     Grants use variance at 3500 E. 109th Avenue, zoned AG, for
44       4-15-1998   a commercial horse boarding stable, aiding arena, and tack
                     shop
                     Grants special exception at 7007 E. 117th Avenue, zoned
47       4-15-1998   AG, for an office building near the entrance of Camp LRCA
                     (Lake Region Christian Assembly) to serve as gatehouse and
                     administrative center for the complex
                     Grants special exception for a church in an AG district,
56       2-17-1999   on property in the northeast quarter of the northeast
                     quarter of Section 8, Township 34 North, Range 7 West of
                     the second P.M.
                    
 
TABLE III: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
      6-18-  Rezones certain property in the west half of the northwest quarter of
31    1997   Section 6, Township 34 North, Range 7 West of the second P.M., from AG to R-
             1
      2-18-  Rezones certain property in the south half of the northeast quarter of
39    1998   Section 8, Township 34 North, Range 7 West of the second P.M., from AG to
             PDM
      2-18-  Rezones certain property in the east half of the northeast quarter of
40    1998   Section 17, Township 34 North, Range 7 West of the second P.M., from AG to
             AG-B
      3-25-  Rezones certain property in the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter
42    1998   of Section 8, Township 34 North, Range 7 West of the second P.M., from AG to
             C-2
48    4-15-  Rezones Lots POZ-1 and POZ-2 in Country Meadow Estates Third Addition, and
      1998   certain adjacent property, from C-2 to R-4
      4-15-  Rezones Lots R3-1 through R3-17, and Lot 151, in Country Meadow Estates
49    1998   Third Addition, from R-3 to R-4, with prior county uses and design standards
             permitted
      10-28- Rezones certain property in Parcel A of the Country Commons Planned Business
53    1998   Center, in the southeast quarter of Section 5, Township 34 North, Range 7
             West of the second P.M., from PDC to R-4
54    11-18- Rezones certain property in the southwest quarter of Section 8, Township 34
      1998   North, Range 7 West of the second P.M., from R-1 to PDR
57    1-27-  Rezones Lots 529 and 530 DBL Estates from PDR to C-2, subject to certain
      1999   covenants
59    4-21-  Rezones certain property in the southeast quarter of Section 18, Township 34
      1999   North, Range 7 West of the second P.M., from AG to R-1
61    6-16-  Rezones certain property in the northeast quarter of Section 6, Township 34
      1999   North, Range 7 West of the second P.M., from AG to PDR
63    8-18-  Rezones Lots R5-1 through R5-5 in Country Meadows Estates Third Addition
      1999   from MF to PDR
      9-15-  Rezones certain property in the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter
64    1999   of Section 8, Township 34 North, Range 7 West of the second P.M., from AG to
             C-3
      12-15- Rezones certain property in the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter
67    1999   of Section 8, Township 34 North, Range 7 West of the second P.M., from AG to
             R-2
      4-18-  Rezones certain property in the east half of the southeast quarter of
70    2000   Section 4, Township 34 North, Range 7 West of the second P.M., from PDR and
             PDC to PDC
      3-20-  Rezones property in the northeast quarter of Section 5, Township 34 North,
90    2001   Range 7 West of the second P.M., DoubleTree Estates, from PDM to an amended
             PDM
2002- 10-22- Amending the plan revising the Planned Development Multi for Doubletree West
104   2002   Estates; exceptions set out in ordinance
      11-19- Rezones property located north of 117th Street, west of Randolph Street and
105   2002   consisting of approx. 72.62 acres from PDR District to R-1, single-family
             development
107   5-20-  Rezones property owned by Enco Properties, located in the Doubletree Lake
      2003   Estates, portions of Lots 525 & 526 from PDR to PDM
116   10-19- Rezones the west 70 acres of the Northwest Quarter of Section 8, Township 34
      2004   North, Range 7 West of the Second Principal Meridian from AG to PDR
123   1-18-  Approving development plan for Deer Creek District
      2005
124   1-18-  Amending development plan for Doubletree Lake Estates East District
      2005
125   1-18-  Amending development plan for Doubletree Lake Estates West District
      2005
      7-19-  Rezones property in the east half of the west half of the southwest quarter
134   2005   of the northwest quarter of Section 20, Township 34 North, R & W, from A to
             AG-B
135   7-19-  Rezones property in the east half of the southwest quarter of Section 20,
      2005   Township 34 North, R & W, from A to AG-B
146   6-20-  Rezones property commonly known as the south side of 109th Avenue
      2006   approximately 3/8 mile west of Randolph Street, from AG to R-2
147   9-19-  Rezones property commonly known as State and 109th Avenue, from AG to R-1
      2006
150   10-17- Rezones property commonly known as Stonegate Subdivision - Phase 2, from AG
      2006   to R-2
151   11-21- Rezones a portion of Wyndance Subdivision, from AG to PDR
      2006
155   3-20-  Rezones property commonly known as 10305 Colorado Street, from AG to R-1
      2007
      12-15- Rezones property known as part of the east half of the northeast quarter of
189   2009   Section 17, Township 34 North, Range 7 West of the Second Principal Meridian
             in Winfield Township, from AG-B to C-3
221   9-24-  Rezones two parcels of land from C-3 to R-1
      2013
245   7-14-  Rezones 6622 E. 129th Avenue from AG-B to AG
      2015
32B   9-22-  Rezones property commonly known as Lot B1-22, to allow for the construction
      2016   of a fast food restaurant in the Planned Business Center of Country Commons.
      4-11-  Rezones Lot 3 of the Secondary Plat Sapper’s 2nd Addition Part of the
270   2017   Southeast Quarter of Section 12, Township 34 North, Range 8 West from AG to
             AG-B
272   6-13-  Rezones 8703 E. 109th Avenue from C-3 to R-1
      2017
39B   12-18- Rezoning 11150 E. 112th Avenue and 7800 E. 112th Avenue from PDM to PDM
      2018
293   12-18- Rezoning 12301 Gibson Street from R-1 to AG
      2018
306   8-25-  Rezoning part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 6, Township 34 North,
      2020   Range 7 West of the Second Principal Meridian from AF to AG-B
313   12-8-  Rezoning Lot 2 in Downey Acres from AG to R-1
      2020
      2-23-  Rezoning the north half of the east half of the Northeast Quarter of Section
314   2021   17, Township 34 North, Range 7 West of the Second Principal Meridian from AG
             to PDR
208D  4-13-  Rezoning two parcels of land from AG to R-1
      2021
319   6-22-  Rezoning parcels of real property from A to Y2021 PDR
      2021
321   9-28-  Rezoning parcels of real property from PUD to Y2021 PDR
      2021
322   10-12- Rezoning parcels of real property from R-2 to Y2021 Estates of Wynbrook PDR
      2021
325   3-8-   Rezoning Banter Acres, part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 12, Township
      2022   34 North, Range 8 West of the Second Principal Meridian, from AG to R-1
             Rezoning Koehler Acres, a parcel of land lying in the south half of the
      3-8-   north half of the Southeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 12,
326   2022   Township 34 North, Range 8 West of the Second Principal Meridian, from AG to
             R-1, with a waiver/reduction of the minimum lot frontage from 150 feet to 50
             feet
             Rezoning a certain parcel of land, located in the west 225 feet of the east
337   7-26-  820.47 feet of the north 352 feet of the Northwest Quarter of the Northeast
      2022   Quarter of Section 8, Township 34 North, Range 7 West of the Second
             Principal Meridian, except for the east 60 feet thereof, from AG-B to C-2
             Rezoning the following parcels of land, lying in the Southeast Quarter of
             the Northwest Quarter of Section 1, Township 34 North, Range 8 West of the
341   1-10-  Second Principal Meridian, from AG to R-1:
      2023      (1) The east 474 feet, except for the north 963 feet thereof; and
                (2) The south 266.3 feet of the west 848.18 feet, except for a 20-foot
             ingress/egress easement across the east 20 feet.
      2-28-  Rezoning a certain parcel of land, lying in the Northeast Quarter of the
346   2023   Northeast Quarter of Section 8, Township 34 North, Range 7 West of the
             Second Principal Meridian, from AG to C-3
             Rezoning two parcels of land, containing 5,802 acres and 4,928 acres,
347   4-25-  respectively, in the east half of the Northwest Quarter, Section 7, Township
      2023   34 North, Range 7 West of the Second Principal Meridian, to PDR to fully
             comply with the Wyndance Springs Development Plan
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cite Code Section
I.C. Cite                 Code Section
1-1-1-5                   10.04
1-1-1-7                   10.12
1-1-1-8                   10.06
1-1-4-5                   10.05
1-1-5-1                   10.11
1-1-6-1                   10.08
3-8-5                     30.05
3-8-6                     30.05
3-10-6                    30.01
3-10-6-2                  30.06
3-10-6-2.5 et seq.        30.06
3-10-6-6(a)               30.06
3-10-6-6(a) et seq.       30.06
3-10-7                    30.01
4-21.5-3-7                151.50
5-2-1-9                   31.35
5-2-8-2                   34.06
5-3-1                     33.08;
                          155.046
5-4-1-5.1                 36.18
5-11-1-27                 32.60
5-14 et seq.              32.04
5-14-1.5-5                156.358
5-14-3 et seq.            32.03
5-14-3-2                  32.03
5-14-3-3                  32.02
6-3.5-1.1-25              34.04
6-3.5-1.1-25(a)           34.04
6-3.5-7-1 et seq.         34.05
6-3.5-7-13.1(b)           34.05
6-5-7-3 et seq.           31.35
8-1-2-103(d)              32.30
8-1-2.6-13                159.04
8-1-32.3 et seq.          159.04
8-1-32.3-17(a)            159.03
8-1-32.3-20               159.06
8-1.5-3-4                 50.03
8-1.5-3-4(a)              36.35
8-1.5-4-2                 50.04
8-1.5-4-4                 50.03
8-1.5-4 et seq.           50.03
8-1.5-5-1 et seq.         36.30
8-14-16-5                 34.03
9-13-1-1 et seq.          70.01
9-13-2-14                 Ch. 73
9-14-2-3                  71.041
9-14-5-1 et seq.          74.68
9-18-22-1 et seq.         74.68
9-19-11                   71.041
9-21-1-2                  Ch. 70;
                          Ch. 71
9-21-1-3                  71.015
9-21-4-1–9-21-4-19      71.059
9-21-4-14                 71.090
9-21-4-16                 71.078
9-21-8-19                 71.040
9-21-8-44.5               71.042
9-21-11-1 et seq.         Ch. 73
9-21-12-7                 74.50
9-21-13-1–9-21-13-7     71.021
9-21-16-5                 74.06
9-21-17-1–9-21-17-24    71.004
9-22-1                    74.81
9-22-1-16                 74.80
9-24-10                   71.041
12-28-4-1 et seq.         156.010
13-9-1-1                  Ch. 51
13-15 et seq.             91.01
13-17 et seq.             91.01
14-16 et seq.             Ch. 72
14-28-1                   153.34
14-28-1-26                153.34
14-28-4                   153.01
14-28-4-26                154.05,
                          154.06
15-5-7-1                  92.04
15-5-7-2                  92.04
15-5-9-1                  92.02
15-5-9-1 et seq.          92.02
15-5-9-2                  92.02
15-5-9-3                  92.02
15-5-9-4                  92.02
15-5-9-5                  92.02
15-5-9-6                  92.02
15-5-9-7                  92.02
15-5-9-8                  92.02
15-5-9-9                  92.02
15-5-9-10                 92.02
15-5-9-11                 92.02
15-5-9-12                 92.02
15-5-9-13                 92.02
15-5-9-14                 92.02,
                          92.03
15-5-9-15–15-5-9-17     92.02
15-5-19-13                92.06
15-17-6-10                92.06
15-17-18-8                92.06
22-3-2-2.1                31.34
22-13-2                   Ch. 151
22-13-2-3(b)              151.19
22-13-2-7                 151.50
22-13-2-7(b)              151.17
22-15-3-1                 151.32
22-15-4                   151.18
25-21.8-4-2               156.010
25-39                     151.68
25-39-1.5-1 et seq.       151.65,
                          155.66
25-39-4-1(a)              151.67
31-6-4-15.7               130.01
31-37-19-27               130.01
32-25                     150.21,
                          156.010
33-36-2-1                 33.01
33-36-3-1                 33.01,
                          33.04
33-36-3-5                 33.05
33-36-3-6                 33.07
33-36-3-7                 33.06
33-37                     33.07
33-37-7 et seq.           70.48
33-37-4                   33.07
33-37-7 et seq.        70.48
34-28-5 et seq.           70.45
35-46-3-1                 92.03,
                          92.06
35-46-3-2                 92.06
35-46-3-8                 92.04 
35-47-1 et seq.           94.01
36-1-3 et seq.            32.80
36-1-3-2                  31.45
36-1-3-4                  155.004
36-1-3-8(a)(10)           10.99
36-1-4-14                 31.33
36-1-5                    30.33
36-1-8-5.1                34.07,
                          34.08
36-1-8-5.1 et seq.        34.07,
                          34.08
                          31.70 –
36-1-20.2                 31.72,
                          31.74
                          31.70,
36-1-21                   31.71,
                          31.73,
                          31.74
36-4-6-11                 31.75
36-5-2-9.4                31.75
36-5-2-10                 33.08
36-5-4-12                 32.15
36-5-6-7                  31.31
36-7                      33.08
36-7-2-7                  32.80
36-7-2-9                  Ch. 151
36-7-4                    153.01
36-7-4                    Ch. 155 ;
                          156.370
36-7-4-100 et seq.        156.020
36-7-4-202                150.01
36-7-4-500                155.013,
                          156.010 
36-7-4-600 et seq.        156.002,
                          156.375
                          155.004;
36-7-4-700                155.013;
                          155.045
36-7-4-711                155.131
                          155.132,
36-7-4-900                156.340,
                          156.343
36-7-4-900 et seq.        156.343
36-7-4-918.4              156.010
36-7-4-1016               156.265
36-7-4-1106(d)            156.010
36-7-4-1108               156.010,
                          156.152
36-7-4-1400 et seq.       156.010
36-7-4-1400 - 36-7-4-1406 156.043
36-7-9-1–36-7-9-28      152.03
36-7-9 et seq.            152.01 
36-7-11                   159.05
36-7-11.1                 159.05
36-8 et seq.              31.35
36-8-14                   34.02
36-9-15.5-2               34.01
36-9-23-1 et seq.         36.15,
                          36.19
                          51.01;
                          51.15-
36-9-30-1 et seq.         51.19;
                          51.30;
                          51.99
                          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.                  Date Passed Code Section
1                         12-15-1994  11.01
                                      30.01–
                                      30.04;
                                      30.15-
                                      30.20;
                                      30.30-
2                         12-15-1994  30.33;
                                      31.01-
                                      31.03;
                                      31.15;
                                      31.16;
                                      31.30
2A                        1-27-1999   30.15
4                         3-21-1995   30.05
18                        1-22-1997   150.01–
                                      150.06
19                        2-19-1997   151.01
21                        2-19-1997   31.31
22                        2-19-1997   31.32
23, § 1.10.10            3-19-1997   156.001
23, § 1.10.20            3-19-1997   156.002
23, § 1.10.30            3-19-1997   156.003
23, § 1.10.40            3-19-1997   156.005
23, § 1.10.50            3-19-1997   156.004
23, § 1.10.60            3-19-1997   156.005
23, § 1.10.70            3-19-1997   156.007
23, § 1.10.80            3-19-1997   156.008
23, § 1.10.90            3-19-1997   156.006
23, § 1.20.10            3-19-1997   156.009
23, § 1.20.20            3-19-1997   156.010
23, § 1.30.10            3-19-1997   156.020
23, § 1.30.20            3-19-1997   156.021
23, § 1.30.30            3-19-1997   156.022
23, § 1.30.40            3-19-1997   156.023
23, § 2.10.10            3-19-1997   156.035
23, § 2.10.20            3-19-1997   156.036
23, §§ 2.20.10–2.20.403-19-1997   156.037
23, § 2.30.10            3-19-1997   156.038
23, § 2.30.20            3-19-1997   156.038
23, § 2.40.10            3-19-1997   156.055;
                                      Ch. 156, App. C
23, § 2.40.20            3-19-1997   156.056
23, § 2.40.30            3-19-1997   156.057
23, § 2.40.40            3-19-1997   156.058
23, § 2.40.50            3-19-1997   156.059
23, § 2.40.60            3-19-1997   156.060
23, § 2.40.70            3-19-1997   156.061
23, § 2.40.80            3-19-1997   156.063
23, § 2.40.90            3-19-1997   156.063
23, § 2.40.100           3-19-1997   156.064
23, § 2.40.110           3-19-1997   156.065
23, § 2.40.120           3-19-1997   156.062
23, § 2.50.10            3-19-1997   156.075
23, § 2.50.20            3-19-1997   156.076
23, § 2.50.30            3-19-1997   156.077
23, § 2.50.40            3-19-1997   156.078
23, § 2.50.50            3-19-1997   156.080
23, § 2.50.60            3-19-1997   156.081
23, § 2.50.70            3-19-1997   156.096
23, § 2.50.80            3-19-1997   156.095
23, § 2.50.90            3-19-1997   156.079
23, §§ 2.50.100–2.50.13-19-1997   156.097
23, § 2.50.170           3-19-1997   156.098
23, § 2.50.180           3-19-1997   156.082
23, § 2.50.190           3-19-1997   156.100
23, § 2.50.195           3-19-1997   156.083
23, § 2.50.200           3-19-1997   156.084
23, § 2.50.210           3-19-1997   156.084
23, § 2.50.220           3-19-1997   156.085
23, §§ 2.60.10–2.60.143-19-1997   156.039
23, § 2.60.20            3-19-1997   156.040,
                                      156.042
23, § 2.60.30            3-19-1997   156.041
23, § 3.10.10            3-19-1997   156.110
23, § 3.10.20            3-19-1997   156.111
23, § 3.10.30            3-19-1997   156.112
23, § 3.10.40            3-19-1997   156.113
23, § 3.10.50            3-19-1997   156.114
23, § 3.10.60            3-19-1997   156.115
23, § 3.10.70            3-19-1997   156.116
23, § 3.10.80            3-19-1997   156.117
23, § 3.10.90            3-19-1997   156.118
23, § 3.20.10            3-19-1997   156.130
23, § 3.20.20            3-19-1997   156.131
23, § 3.20.30            3-19-1997   156.132
23, § 3.20.40            3-19-1997   156.133
23, § 3.20.50            3-19-1997   156.134
23, § 3.20.60            3-19-1997   156.135
23, § 3.20.70            3-19-1997   156.136
23, § 3.20.90            3-19-1997   156.137
23, § 3.30.10            3-19-1997   156.150
23, § 3.30.20            3-19-1997   156.151
23, § 3.30.30            3-19-1997   156.152
23, § 3.30.40            3-19-1997   156.153
23, § 3.30.50            3-19-1997   156.154
23, § 3.30.60            3-19-1997   156.155
23, § 3.30.70            3-19-1997   156.156
23, § 3.30.80            3-19-1997   156.157
23, § 3.30.90            3-19-1997   156.158
23, § 3.40.10            3-19-1997   156.170
23, § 3.40.20            3-19-1997   156.171
23, § 3.40.30            3-19-1997   156.172
23, § 3.40.40            3-19-1997   156.173
23, § 3.40.50            3-19-1997   156.174
23, § 3.40.60            3-19-1997   156.175
23, § 3.40.70            3-19-1997   156.176
23, § 3.40.80            3-19-1997   156.177
23, § 3.40.90            3-19-1997   156.178
23, § 3.50.10            3-19-1997   156.190
23, § 3.50.20            3-19-1997   156.191
23, § 3.50.30            3-19-1997   156.192
23, § 3.50.40            3-19-1997   156.193
23, § 3.50.50            3-19-1997   156.194
23, § 3.50.60            3-19-1997   156.195
23, § 3.50.70            3-19-1997   156.196
23, § 3.50.80            3-19-1997   156.197
23, § 3.50.90            3-19-1997   156.198
23, § 3.60.10            3-19-1997   156.210
23, § 3.60.20            3-19-1997   156.211
23, § 3.60.30            3-19-1997   156.212
23, § 3.60.40            3-19-1997   156.213
23, § 3.60.50            3-19-1997   156.214
23, § 3.60.60            3-19-1997   156.215
23, § 3.60.70            3-19-1997   156.216
23, § 3.60.80            3-19-1997   156.217
23, § 3.60.90            3-19-1997   156.218
23, § 3.70.10            3-19-1997   156.230
23, § 3.70.20            3-19-1997   156.231
23, § 3.70.30            3-19-1997   156.232
23, § 3.70.40            3-19-1997   156.233
23, § 3.70.50            3-19-1997   156.234
23, § 3.70.60            3-19-1997   156.235
23, § 3.70.70            3-19-1997   156.236
23, § 3.70.80            3-19-1997   156.237
23, § 3.70.90            3-19-1997   156.238
23, § 3.80.10            3-19-1997   156.250
23, § 3.80.20            3-19-1997   156.251
23, § 3.80.30            3-19-1997   156.252
23, § 3.80.40            3-19-1997   156.253
23, § 3.80.50            3-19-1997   156.254
23, § 3.80.60            3-19-1997   156.255
23, § 3.80.70            3-19-1997   156.256
23, § 3.80.80            3-19-1997   156.257
23, § 3.80.90            3-19-1997   156.258
23, § 3.80.100           3-19-1997   156.259
23, § 3.80.110           3-19-1997   156.260
23, § 3.80.120           3-19-1997   156.261
23, § 3.80.130           3-19-1997   156.262
23, § 3.80.140           3-19-1997   156.263
23, § 3.80.150           3-19-1997   156.264
23, § 3.80.160           3-19-1997   156.265
23, § 3.90.10            3-19-1997   156.275
23, § 3.90.20            3-19-1997   156.276
23, § 3.90.30            3-19-1997   156.277
23, § 3.90.40            3-19-1997   156.278
23, § 3.90.50            3-19-1997   156.279
23, § 3.90.60            3-19-1997   156.280
23, § 3.100.10           3-19-1997   156.290
23, § 3.100.20           3-19-1997   156.291
23, § 3.100.30           3-19-1997   156.292
23, § 3.100.40           3-19-1997   156.293
23, § 3.100.50           3-19-1997   156.294
23, § 3.100.60           3-19-1997   156.295
23, § 3.110.10           3-19-1997   156.305
23, § 3.110.20           3-19-1997   156.306
23, § 3.110.30           3-19-1997   156.307
23, § 3.110.40           3-19-1997   156.308
23, § 3.110.50           3-19-1997   156.309
23, § 3.110.60           3-19-1997   156.310
23, § 3.120.10           3-19-1997   156.320
23, § 3.120.20           3-19-1997   156.321
23, § 3.120.30           3-19-1997   156.322
23, § 3.120.40           3-19-1997   156.323
23, § 3.120.50           3-19-1997   156.324
23, § 3.120.60           3-19-1997   156.325
23, § 3.120.70           3-19-1997   156.326
23, § 3.120.80           3-19-1997   156.326
23, §§ 3.120.90–3.120.3-19-1997   156.327
23, § 3.120.120          3-19-1997   156.328
23, § 3.120.130          3-19-1997   156.329
23, § 3.120.140          3-19-1997   156.330
23, § 4.10.10            3-19-1997   156.370
23, § 4.10.20            3-19-1997   156.371
23, § 4.10.30            3-19-1997   156.372
23, § 4.10.40            3-19-1997   156.373
23, § 4.10.50            3-19-1997   156.374
23, § 4.10.60            3-19-1997   156.999
23, § 4.20.10            3-19-1997   156.340
23, § 4.20.20            3-19-1997   156.342
23, § 4.20.30            3-19-1997   156.341
23, § 4.20.40            3-19-1997   156.343
23, § 4.20.50            3-19-1997   156.344
23, § 4.20.60            3-19-1997   156.355
23, § 4.20.70            3-19-1997   156.356
23, § 4.20.80            3-19-1997   156.357
23, § 4.20.90            3-19-1997   156.358
23, § 4.20.100           3-19-1997   156.359
23, § 4.20.110           3-19-1997   156.360
23, § 4.20.120           3-19-1997   156.360
23, §§ 4.30.10–4.30.703-19-1997   156.375
23, Table A               3-19-1997   Ch. 156, App. A
23, Table B               3-19-1997   Ch. 156, App. B
23, Table 1               3-19-1997   Ch. 156, App. D
23, Table 2               3-19-1997   Ch. 156, App. E
                                      111.01–
                                      111.03;
25A                       5-16-2000   111.05;
                                      111.15;
                                      111.17-
                                      115.19
                                      111.04;
                                      111.05;
25B                       6-19-2001   111.16;
                                      111.20-
                                      111.22
                                      151.15–
                                      151.20;
26                        4-2-1997    151.30-
                                      151.34;
                                      151.45-
                                      151.51
27, § 1.10.10            4-16-1997   155.001
27, § 1.10.20            4-16-1997   155.002
27, § 1.10.30            4-16-1997   155.003
27, § 1.10.40            4-16-1997   155.004
27, § 1.10.50            4-16-1997   155.005
27, § 1.10.60            4-16-1997   155.006
27, § 1.10.70            4-16-1997   155.007
27, § 1.10.80            4-16-1997   155.010
27, § 1.10.90            4-16-1997   155.011
27, § 1.10.100           4-16-1997   155.009
27, § 1.10.110           4-16-1997   155.130
27, § 1.10.120           4-16-1997   155.131
27, § 1.10.130           4-16-1997   155.132
27, § 1.10.140           4-16-1997   155.014
27, § 1.10.150           4-16-1997   155.008
27, § 2.10.10            4-16-1997   155.012
27, § 2.10.20            4-16-1997   155.013
27, § 3.10.10            4-16-1997   155.025
27, § 3.10.20            4-16-1997   155.026
27, § 3.20.10            4-16-1997   155.045
27, § 3.20.20            4-16-1997   155.046
27, § 3.20.30            4-16-1997   155.047
27, § 3.20.40            4-16-1997   155.048
27, § 3.20.50            4-16-1997   155.049
27, § 3.20.60            4-16-1997   155.050
27, §§ 4.10.10–4.10.504-16-1997   155.075
27, §§ 4.20.10–4.20.204-16-1997   155.076
27, § 4.30.10            4-16-1997   155.077
27, § 4.30.20            4-16-1997   155.078
27, § 4.30.30            4-16-1997   155.079
27, § 5.10.10            4-16-1997   155.090
27, § 5.10.20            4-16-1997   155.091
27, § 5.10.30            4-16-1997   155.092
27, § 5.10.40            4-16-1997   155.093
27, § 5.20.10            4-16-1997   155.094
27, § 5.30.10            4-16-1997   155.095
27, § 5.40.10            4-16-1997   155.096
27, §§ 5.50.10–5.50.904-16-1997   155.097
27, § 6.10.10            4-16-1997   155.110
27, § 6.20.10            4-16-1997   155.111
27, §§ 6.30.10–6.30.704-16-1997   155.112
27, §§ 6.40.10–6.40.114-16-1997   155.113
27, §§ 6.50.10–6.50.104-16-1997   155.114
27, §§ 6.60.10–6.60.904-16-1997   155.115
27, §§ 6.70.10–6.70.704-16-1997   155.116
27, § 7.10.20            4-16-1997   155.030
27, § 7.10.30            4-16-1997   155.031
27, § 7.10.40            4-16-1997   155.032
27, §§ 7.20.10–7.20.304-16-1997   155.033
27, Appendix              4-16-1997   155.132
27, Table 1               4-16-1997   Ch. 155, App. B
31                        6-18-1997   TSO III
32                        9-17-1997   TSO I
                                      51.01;
                                      51.15;
34                        11-19-1997  51.17-
                                      51.19;
                                      51.30;
                                      51.99
38                        2-18-1998   32.15,
                                      32.16
39                        2-18-1998   TSO III
40                        2-18-1998   TSO III
41                        2-18-1998   150.20–
                                      150.28
41A                       3-17-1999   150.23–
                                      150.25
42                        2-18-1998   TSO III
43                        3-25-1998   TSO II
44                        4-15-1998   TSO II
                                      156.010;
                                      156.036;
                                      156.037;
                                      156.041;
45                        4-15-1998   156.078;
                                      156.250;
                                      156.343;
                                      156.373;
                                      156.999
                                      155.050;
46                        4-15-1998   150.065;
                                      150.075
47                        4-15-1998   TSO II
48                        4-15-1998   TSO III
49                        4-15-1998   TSO III
53                        10-28-1998  TSO III
54                        11-18-1998  TSO III
56                        2-17-1999   TSO II
57                        1-27-1999   TSO III
                                      91.15–
58                        2-17-1999   91.25; 
                                      91.99
59                        4-21-1999   TSO III
60                        5-19-1999   TSO I
61                        6-16-1999   TSO III
63                        8-18-1999   TSO III
64                        9-15-1999   TSO III
67                        12-15-1999  TSO III
69                        2-15-2000   31.45
70                        4-18-2000   TSO III
71                        3-21-2000   91.01;
                                      91.02
72                        5-16-2000   151.65–
                                      151.69
                                      154.01–
                                      154.06;
75A                       10-17-2000  154.20-
                                      154.28;
                                      154.40-
                                      154.42
76                        7-18-2000   32.01–
                                      32.04
77                        7-18-2000   33.08
78                        7-18-2000   34.02
80                        8-23-2000   31.34
81                        8-23-2000   31.33
                                      32.30;
83                        9-19-2000   33.02-
                                      33.08
                                      70.01–
                                      70.04;
                                      70.15-
                                      70.18;
                                      70.30-
                                      70.37;
                                      70.99;
                                      71.001-70.004;
                                      71.015-
                                      71.022;
                                      71.035-
                                      71.041;
                                      71.055-
                                      71.061;
                                      71.075-
                                      71.078;
                                      71.090;
                                      71.091;
                                      71.105;
                                      71.106;
84                        11-21-2000  72.01-
                                      72.03;
                                      72.15;
                                      72.16;
                                      72.30-
                                      72.32;
                                      73.01-
                                      73.06;
                                      74.01-
                                      74.09;
                                      74.20-
                                      74.22;
                                      74.35-
                                      74.40;
                                      74.50-
                                      74.54;
                                      74.65-
                                      74.69;
                                      74.80-
                                      74.86;
                                      Ch. 75, Sched. I–VI;
                                      Ch 76, Sched. I
                                      155.096;
85                        10-17-2000  155.110-
                                      155.116;
                                      Ch. 155, App. B
86                        11-21-2000  156.098;
                                      156.099
89                        2-20-2001   50.01–
                                      50.08
90                        3-20-2001   TSO III
                                      151.69;
91                        7-17-2001   152.02-
                                      152.04
92                        7-17-2001   155.091;
                                      155.092
                                      156.035;
93                        7-17-2001   156.041;
                                      156.262;
                                      156.359
97                        12-18-2001  155.007;
                                      155.075
78 A                      7-16-2002   34.02
                                      92.01–
99                        8-20-2002   92.07;
                                      92.99
100                       8-20-2002   32.30
                                      157.001–
                                      157.003;
                                      157.015-
                                      157.018;
                                      157.035-
                                      157.044;
2002-101                  9-17-2002   157.060-
                                      157.064;
                                      157.080-
                                      157.082;
                                      157.095-
                                      157.098;
                                      157.999
2002-104                  10-22-2002  TSO III
105                       11-19-2002  TSO III
107                       5-20-2003   TSO III
2003-108                  9-4-2003    TSO I
89A                       1-20-2004   50.05
25C                       1-20-2004   111.16
15A                       2-17-2004   32.15
99A                       2-17-2004   92.99
41B                       3-18-2004   150.23;
                                      150.24
113                       3-23-2004   TSO I
115                       4-1-2004    150.22;
                                      156.372
                                      150.24;
41C                       4-23-2004   150.26;
                                      150.27
111                       7-15-2004   156.010;
                                      Ch. 156, App. A
117                       7-15-2004   151.19
                                      156.075–
2003-109A                 10-8-2004   156.085;
                                      156.095–
                                      156.100
116                       10-19-2004  TSO III
120                       11-16-2004  150.23
25E                       11-19-2004  111.16
123                       1-18-2005   TSO III
124                       1-18-2005   TSO III
125                       1-18-2005   TSO III
126                       3-15-2005   155.046
129                       10-18-2005  155.094
132                       6-21-2005   151.01
133                       6-21-2005   151.01
134                       7-19-2005   TSO III
135                       7-19-2005   TSO III
138                       11-15-2005  30.01
139                       12-20-2005  156.233,
                                      Ch. 56, App. B
                                      111.04;
25F                       2-21-2006   111.20–
                                      111.22
41D                       2-21-2006   150.23; 
                                      150.24
41E                       3-21-2006   150.23;
                                      150.26
143                       3-21-2006   52.01–
                                      52.07
143A                      4-18-2006   52.03
144                       6-8-2006    155.041
145                       6-8-2006    155.034–
                                      155.040
146                       6-20-2006   TSO III
147                       9-19-2006   TSO III
149                       10-17-2006  34.03
150                       10-17-2006  TSO III
143-B                     11-21-2006  52.03;
                                      52.05
151                       11-21-2006  TSO III
154                       2-20-2007   35.01–
                                      35.05
155                       3-20-2007   TSO III
156                       5-21-2007   36.01–
                                      36.04
                                      155.076;
                                      155.090;
                                      155.091;
                                      155.094;
                                      155.095;
                                      155.096;
157                       5-29-2007   155.097;
                                      155.112;
                                      155.114;
                                      155.116;
                                      Ch. 155, App. C;
                                      Ch. 155, App. D;
                                      Ch. 156, App. B
143-C                     8-21-2007   52.03
144-A                     12-18-2007  155.041
145A                      12-18-2007  155.035
168                       1-15-2008   Ch. 75, Sched. IV
76A                       5-20-2008   32.04
                                      155.075;
                                      155.078;
172                       6-17-2008   155.095;
                                      155.114;
                                      155.116
41F                       12-16-2008  150.23;
                                      150.24
169                       3-17-2009   36.15–
                                      36.19
41G                       8-18-2009   150.22;
                                      151.34
                                      157.036;
101A                      8-18-2009   157.041;
                                      157.060
181                       8-18-2009   112.01–
                                      112.04
                                      150.23;
41H                       10-20-2009  150.24;
                                      150.26
185                       10-20-2009  32.45–
                                      32.51
189                       12-15-2009  TSO III
                                      150.21–
                                      150.23;
                                      150.26;
                                      150.27;
                                      155.013;
                                      155.048;
41I                       2-15-2010   155.049;
                                      155.075;
                                      155.078;
                                      156.039;
                                      156.041;
                                      156.042;
                                      156.095;
                                      156.096
190                       3-16-2010   36.30–
                                      36.35
                                      155.013;
                                      155.030;
                                      155.045;
191                       6-15-2010   155.046;
                                      155.048;
                                      155.078;
                                      156.043;
                                      156.254
192                       7-29-2010   34.01
193                       7-20-2010   32.55
194                       11-16-2010  53.01–
                                      53.08
199                       2-15-2011   TSO I
73B                       6-26-2012   90.01–
                                      90.04
208                       6-26-2012   156.020
209                       6-26-2012   31.70–
                                      31.77
84B                       6-26-2012   71.016
194A                      9-11-2012   53.05
                                      150.21–
                                      150.24;
                                      151.20;
                                      151.32;
                                      155.032;
                                      155.033;
                                      155.041;
                                      155.079;
210                       9-11-2012   155.091;
                                      155.092;
                                      155.094;
                                      155.096;
                                      155.116;
                                      Ch. 155, App. D;
                                      156.010;
                                      156.045–
                                      156.047;
                                      Ch. 156, App. A
84-C                      12-18-2012  71.106;
                                      Ch. 75, Sched. VII
                                      111.05;
217                       4-23-2013   111.15;
                                      111.23;
                                      151.20
139-A                     5-28-2013   Ch. 156, App. B
27A                       7-23-2013   155.075–
                                      155.078
129A                      7-23-2013   155.094
219                       7-23-2013   156.048
220                       7-23-2013   130.01;
                                      130.99
25-H                      9-24-2013   111.18
41-J                      9-24-2013   150.23;
                                      150.24
89B                       9-24-2013   50.05
181-A                     9-24-2013   112.03
221                       9-24-2013   TSO III
                                      110.01;
224                       11-26-2013  110.02;
                                      110.99
230                       1-28-2014   34.04
231                       1-28-2014   34.05
232                       2-25-2014   31.35
219-A                     3-25-2014   156.048
                                      150.05;
                                      151.32;
                                      155.049;
                                      155.116;
                                      156.010;
234                       5-13-2014   156.039;
                                      156.041;
                                      156.043;
                                      156.046;
                                      156.262;
                                      156.372;
                                      Ch. 156, App. A
73-C                      1-27-2015   90.03
84-D                      1-27-2015   74.81;
                                      74.84
                                      Ch. 75, Scheds. I–
84-E                      1-27-2015   V,
                                      VII
194B                      1-27-2015   53.05
241                       1-27-2015   90.02;
                                      90.05
84-F                      2-24-2015   74.69
84-G                      2-24-2015   71.076
84-H                      2-24-2015   74.87
84-I                      2-24-2015   71.039
84-J                      2-24-2015   74.37
84-K                      2-24-2015   71.057
84-L                      2-24-2015   71.106
84-M                      2-24-2015   74.53
241-A                     2-24-2015   90.03
217A                      6-23-2015   111.05
245                       7-14-2015   T.S.O. III
246                       8-25-2015   90.06
247                       8-25-2015   70.45–
                                      70.50
248                       11-10-2015  74.10
                                      155.091;
                                      156.045;
                                      156.075;
                                      156.078;
                                      156.082;
                                      156.083;
210-A                     12-10-2015  156.095-
                                      156.098;
                                      156.100;
                                      156.101;
                                      156.359;
                                      Ch. 156, App. D,
                                      App. E
                                      158.01–
255                       12-10-2015  158.11,
                                      158.99
143-D                     1-26-2016   52.03;
                                      52.05
                                      153.01–
                                      153.13;
                                      153.20-
                                      153.22;
253                       1-26-2016   153.30-
                                      153.37;
                                      153.40-
                                      153.46;
                                      153.99
256                       2-23-2016   34.06
257                       2-23-2016   32.60
76-B                      2-23-2016   32.04;
                                      32.05
194C                      4-12-2016   53.05
258                       5-24-2016   34.09
260                       5-24-2016   34.07
261                       5-24-2016   34.08
263                       5-26-2016   T.S.O. I
78-B                      6-28-2016   34.02
262                       7-26-2016   93.01–
                                      93.06
32B                       9-22-2016   T.S.O. III
39A                       11-15-2016  156.020
143-E                     5-23-2017   52.04
143-F                     8-26-2017   52.01–
                                      52.03
229-A                     8-22-2017   32.70
270                       4-11-2017   T.S.O. III
272                       6-13-2017   T.S.O. III
273                       8-8-2017    T.S.O. I
274                       8-22-2017   159.01–
                                      159.11
34B                       12-21-2017  51.17
194D                      12-21-2017  53.05
                                      94.01–
278                       12-21-2017  94.03;
                                      94.99
                                      155.029;
210B                      3-13-2018   155.055–
                                      155.063
281                       3-13-2018   156.062
282                       3-13-2018   156.061
                                      158.04;
283                       3-13-2018   158.09;
                                      158.12
284                       3-13-2018   Ch. 156, App. B
285                       3-13-2018   156.043
208-A                     4-14-2018   156.020
286                       8-28-2018   32.80
39B                       12-18-2018  T.S.O. III
293                       12-18-2018  T.S.O. III
                                      51.15;
34C                       2-26-2019   51.16;
                                      51.99
143-G                     3-12-2019   52.04
2-B                       1-22-2019   30.06
294                       2-12-2019   31.36
295                       2-26-2019   34.01
296                       2-25-2019   150.35
229-B                     5-14-2019   32.70
298                       5-28-2019   156.020
299                       8-27-2019   156.010;
                                      Ch. 156, App. A
                                      150.23;
41-K                      10-8-2019   150.24;
                                      154.42
                                      95.01–
303                       2-11-2020   95.10;
                                      95.99
304                       2-25-2020   34.01
34D                       3-24-2020   51.17
76-C                      7-28-2020   32.05
84-N                      7-28-2020   74.84
305                       7-28-2020   36.50
229-C                     8-25-2020   32.70
306                       8-25-2020   T.S.O. III
308                       9-22-2020   94.04
27-B                      12-8-2020   155.031
27-C                      12-8-2020   156.010
145-B                     12-8-2020   156.036
191-A                     12-8-2020   156.046
191-B                     12-8-2020   155.030
208-C                     12-8-2020   156.020
210-C                     12-8-2020   155.032
284-A                     12-8-2020   Ch. 156, App. B
313                       12-8-2020   T.S.O. III
314                       2-23-2021   T.S.O. III
315                       3-9-2021    34.01
34E                       4-13-2021   51.17
208D                      4-13-2021   T.S.O. III
316                       4-13-2021   34.10
317                       4-13-2021   156.047
319                       6-22-2021   156.020;
                                      T.S.O. III
229-D                     9-28-2021   32.70
321                       9-28-2021   156.020;
                                      T.S.O. III
322                       10-12-2021  156.020;
                                      T.S.O. III
23-A                      2-8-2022    156.250–
                                      156.263
27-D                      2-8-2022    155.013;
                                      155.025
23-B                      3-8-2022    156.042
                                      150.23,
41-L                      3-8-2022    150.24,
                                      151.32
325                       3-8-2022    156.020;
                                      T.S.O. III
326                       3-8-2022    156.020;
                                      T.S.O. III
327                       4-12-2022   34.01
328                       4-12-2022   31.37
329                       4-12-2022   31.38
330                       4-12-2022   31.39
331                       4-12-2022   31.40
332                       5-24-2022   155.076
333                       5-24-2022   155.097
334                       5-24-2022   155.110–
                                      155.116
114-B                     7-12-2022   31.60
337                       7-26-2022   156.020;
                                      T.S.O. III
341                       1-10-2023   156.020;
                                      T.S.O. III
342                       1-24-2023   34.11
343                       1-24-2023   34.12
344                       2-14-2023   10.99;
                                      151.52
345                       2-14-2023   111.23
346                       2-28-2023   156.020;
                                      T.S.O. III
347                       4-5-2023    156.020;
                                      T.S.O. III
348                       4-5-2023    71.042
350                       4-5-2023    156.048
352                       4-5-2023    Ch. 156, App. A
353                       9-12-2023   31.60
                                     
 
